i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety was one of the first speakers to describe the results of buenos aires as a success. this shows how far modesty has come, that even the most minimal developments have to be presented in such a positive way. i think so too. but there's another parameter, and that's time running out. if you close your eyes for a moment and listen to this debate, perhaps leaving out the word kyoto, everything that has been said here so far reminds you in detail of the great world environment conference in rio de janeiro in 1992. the problem was known at the time. we knew what direction it was going to take. but back then, we were much more optimistic, because we thought we could limit global warming to 0.5 degrees by 2050 compared to the pre-industrial era, and now we'd be happy to stay at 2 degrees. this is a very dangerous development, because apart from the democratic political question, which many of us are now dealing with, apart from the social question, which is now being raised with such force in the course of globalisation, the ecological question remains unresolved. and as fatal as this may sound, you almost wish that there might be some evidence around the asian sea quake that the scale of this catastrophic disaster had something to do with global warming. because then there might be a chance that something might be done about it in a global effort, as we are seeing now in this great catastrophe. the whole big problem with global warming, in my view, is that there is no common enemy, that there are no alternatives to action, and that we continue to talk a lot but do far too little.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the new millennium is still very young and has already seen two disastrous summers: one in which all of central europe suffered from flooding and another in which much of europe was suffering from the heat. however, this did not lead to better results at the last conference, which would have been necessary to solve the problems once and for all. i am speaking today about one of the central problems in the kyoto area: transport. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a policy of energy efficiency, but also a policy of energy efficiency, and that the community's energy policy is not only a policy of energy efficiency, but also a policy of energy efficiency. transport is eating up all the successes of climate protection, and therefore measures must also be concentrated here. commissioner, i never hear your voice when european countries which have committed themselves to achieving climate objectives achieve the opposite, namely an increase in emissions! i do not hear your voice if these countries fail to introduce targeted measures against transport emissions! we are all called upon to do this, and you are called upon to make policy concrete within the european union too, and concrete policy here means full support for public transport and no more mobility growth rates that serve only the car while everything else is left behind!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, we are successful, but not successful enough! yes, something is happening, but not enough! yes, there are hundreds of symposia, but not the same number of actions! we are falling behind our goals, and time seems to be running out. climate change is one of the great challenges of the 21st century, as we have said in our resolution, but i wonder whether we are merely aware of this fact or whether we are even aware of it. and does it really affect us? i think it's a long way from being known to being affected and to actually taking action. the individual events are a warning, a cheer, but on the other hand we are powerless to take the necessary political action. the environmental, economic and social consequences are obvious, but they are not yet enough to threaten us. we blame transport, then we blame the house fire or industry, then we blame the industrialized countries, then we blame the developing countries, and we lack the global concept. in view of lisbon, would it not be an opportunity to talk not only about the burden but also about the growth potential, about europe's competitiveness? we're shipping old technology to other continents instead of new technology, and we're talking about global responsibility, but we're ignoring the saying, what you don't want done to you, don't do to anyone else. we are talking about 2012, but we are not giving the economy the certainty of the conditions under which it will have to operate in 2012. we need this framework and we need kyoto impact studies for every industrial and transport policy measure to be able to act in time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to welcome you, commissioner. the commission has already thanked willi rothley and the rapporteur, and i would like to thank mr haarder and mr wuermeling for the expertise, fairness and results-orientation with which they have guided the decision-making process in our group in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we are debating today a very important directive for motorists and victims of accidents. this directive establishes uniform rules throughout europe, thereby providing legal certainty and simplifying procedures. anyone can be affected by this directive. i therefore prepared myself for amendments both at first and second reading, after many discussions with insurance companies, motorists' clubs such as the öamtc and accident victims. i would like to make four points, also for the talks tomorrow. first, the reimbursement of legal costs. the commission's experience has shown that the current non-repayment of legal fees in some countries makes it difficult or even financially impossible for victims of road traffic accessing the courts and that, in many cases, the costs of legal proceedings exceed the amount of compensation to be expected. i therefore welcome the fact that the proposed amendment has been taken into account, because it provides a valuable and long-needed addition to the directive. my second point is the minimum insurance amount. i believe that the proposed minimum cover for property damage is still not sufficient. thirdly, i would like to say that i very much welcome the introduction of the provision that the injured party may bring an action against the relevant claims officer in his home country. i think this is particularly important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment. this is essential because practice has shown that, in the absence of such a provision, there can be delays in resolution of up to several months. i hope that we can reach an agreement tomorrow on these four areas, because all those concerned are in dire need of this directive and thus of greater legal certainty.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not mr leinen said that we should look at the whole forest of the constitution, not just individual trees. but as a spokesman for the committee on industry, i must turn briefly to the industrial policy trees, and i would have wished some of them to grow better than the constitution provides. but there are also some significant advances. i would like to give an example which may not sound very common and convincing at first sight, namely space policy, where there is now additional european competence. it's not that we're competing with the americans or the russians or the chinese or whoever else to put our man or woman on the moon or mars. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. think of the great catastrophe we are facing! we need better information and warning systems, especially from europe with its technology. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information and communication services provided by the european union. we cannot deploy our troops without the necessary information from space. if we want to have a sensible military security policy in this world, we also need a sensible civilian and peaceful space policy, and the constitution also provides for an additional option. the committee on industry therefore fully endorses the european constitution.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission is not i would also like to congratulate the two rapporteurs very warmly, particularly on the way in which they have structured their report. there is not much room for further improvement for us in the legal affairs committee. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall, however, continue to deal with the questions which concern us in particular in the legal affairs committee in the framework of an own-initiative report. the commission has also been active in the field of the fight against fraud, and has been involved in the preparation of the council of europe's annual report on fraud and corruption. a question which i believe will continue to concern us in the future is how we can ensure the coherence between part i and part iii of the constitution. the focus of the legal affairs committee's present opinion is, of course, the reorganization of the union's instruments of action. we have a special wild growth here today: in the convention we have counted 35 different types of action by the european union. i would like to pay particular tribute to the role of the vice-president of the european convention, mr giuliano amato, who has done a great deal as chairman of the working party on simplification, and all those who are here and have worked in this working party will be able to confirm this. and everyone can be proud of their own contribution. it has already been said that this european constitution is unique in many respects. i also argue that the degree of simplification and de-bureaucratization that we have achieved with this constitution is unique and national reforms are lagging behind. i am thinking only of constitutional reform processes, such as those currently taking place in austria or germany. i believe that this also proves that the union is not the bureaucratic union that it is always portrayed as being, but that the union is a very capable institution of reform and has proved to be more capable of reform than many nation states are. we will have simple legislative acts in the future - they will be clearly distinguishable from administrative acts - and many other things that will make our lives much easier when we get this constitution. i also believe that these changes are not as spectacular as some in the institutional field, but that they are very important in making the union more democratic and closer to the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the house has been very busy. it is the fate of europe. i think i know what you're talking about. my father survived the battle of stalingrad, and my mother the concentration camp in auschwitz, the concentration camp in dachau. are we not all descended from an endless series of perpetrators and victims of endless violence on this continent? that is why i insist that europe is a promise, a promise made 60 years ago, at the precipice of auschwitz, in the ruins of europe. that promise was the overcoming of nationalism. it was the unreserved realization of democracy and the rights of freedom and it was the political unity of europe. that's how we measure our actions. this constitution, which we greens approve by a large majority, is a major step towards fulfilling that promise. it is not the end, it is not the fulfillment of the tasks. that is why we are voting in favour of it and that is why we are voting in favour of the report. this constitution lays the foundations of a european democracy. it establishes the union as a community of fundamental rights. it bases its policies on a common code of values and objectives, and for the first time it declares social rights to be classical human rights. it simplifies the treaties, it binds external action to international law, it strengthens the capacity for action and transparency, it gives democratic legitimacy and develops the possibilities for participation by its citizens. it is no longer a union of state chancellery, no longer a union of states, but a union of citizens. that is why we agree, and that is why i am glad you are here. i did not understand your criticism. the amendment does not mention democracy, although this constitution is indispensable for european democracy. why don't you talk about it? they say that's not social progress. in the 200-year history of human rights, this constitution is the first in the world to recognize and enshrine social rights as classical human rights! we have included full employment and a social market economy - albeit with contradictions - in the catalogue of objectives and values of this constitution for the first time. it is not true: we did not decide to militarize europe. this is a highly questionable process. we have an unclear relationship with nato, and who knows the path of european emancipation so precisely? but we have bound our actions to international law, to the un charter, and also made civil conflict prevention a constitutional duty for the first time in the world. you can't just do that to yourself. (applause from the centre) we have not only to pass ratification, which i am watching with concern. when the lithuanian president of parliament was here, when the hungarian colleagues spoke, these ratifications took place without any information campaign by the governments and without any public debate. is that how we're gonna win the constitution? we're not gonna win them like this! we have at least nine referenda ahead of us, and the rapporteurs, whom i congratulate and thank in every way, will allow us to make one criticism: there is no criticism in this report. this is a blow to the credibility of this house. we are not the court poets of the intergovernmental conference. we are not here to sing the anthems of a constitution which also has its shortcomings. we have not created a european social order. european democracy is incomplete. the creation of a european peace order requires great deeds. i would therefore have wished that we had not only voted in favour of this constitution by a large majority, but that we had also opened up prospects for continuing the constitutional process. we greens will do our part by initiating the first european popular demand for a first amendment to complete democracy, peace and social order in europe. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. if the eu wants to deepen its integration, we are told, it needs this constitution. but, we are now hearing from one of the most vehement supporters of this constitution that the draft to be voted on is not all optimal. but it was better than what had come before. so, at least it's progress. that actually sounds pretty lame. we are also told that this constitution will not in any way lead to the development of a european superstate, but on the contrary, it will allegedly strengthen the identity of the member states. if that is so, then the citizens of the european states should really be given the chance to make the final decision in the ratification debate, preferably in referendums. but this requires real information, not just one-sided propaganda to celebrate this constitution. the weaknesses of this constitution must also be discussed without being immediately suspected of being anti-european: for example, that the possibilities of smaller member states to protect their vital interests are reduced; that the european parliament will remain a toothless tiger, especially in foreign and security policy; the commission has also taken the view that the risk of wage and social dumping for european workers is not eliminated. only an open discussion of the weaknesses and dangers of this constitution will enable the european peoples and the citizens of the eu to see this constitution not just as an enacted constitutional law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. 2004 was a particularly remarkable year in the process of european integration, with absolute highs and lows. the community's enlargement from 15 to 25 countries and the further signs of progress in december of this year were undoubtedly the highlights. the high point was also the signing of the constitution on 29 october in rome, and the low point was, as is well known, the date and the events of the european elections. the turnout in the european elections was at an all-time low, and the fragmentation that the result of these european elections has brought to this house - not least as indicated by the many colourful flags that are flying around here, not just in front of the building - is further proof of this. in 2005, therefore, we must re-engage the citizens in the european project, and i think that is not really that difficult. it's a communication task, though. we have a very good product, the new european constitution, and we must win the support of the people for it. we do not need propaganda campaigns, we need reliable information, especially with the argument that it brings something to the people. we should not promise the people the sky is blue, but we should say what the constitution brings and can bring. mr méndez de vigo and mr corbett have summed up this in four key points. the constitution brings more clarity about the european union, it brings more efficiency in the european union, it brings more democracy and accountability and with the fundamental rights more rights for the citizens. informing does not mean renouncing a critical view of things, but the criticism must always put in the foreground that our product is basically a good one. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft constitution. we had a public event at the university of graz, and there the constitution has found more interest than poisonous mushrooms and dream interpretation. this should be an incentive for us to bring the constitution to the people.
the commission has already done so. i would like to address the citizens of europe first: make the constitution your subject! we must do everything we can to ensure that the citizens of europe accept this constitution, because it makes europe closer to the citizens, more transparent, more democratic, clearer and more efficient. i feel like we're all just moving too fast back to the routine. the constitution is on the table, but it hasn't been ratified yet. this constitution is a political milestone for the european union, a political milestone for closer ties with the citizens, transparency and democracy in the european union. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in the past, and it is a great help to the commission in the future. i would remind you that we need a european constitution week in all the member states. i would remind you that we need to abolish unanimity in the council and thus strengthen a community, transparent and democratic europe in the sense of the constitutional treaty. i call on the heads of government to ensure that the spirit of the convention, the spirit of the signing ceremony in rome, and not criticism and silence, distancing and non-participation, govern the internal political debates. we need a europeanisation of the constitutional debate and not a nationalisation of the ratification process. the constitution is not just a guide for the eu institutions, but concerns all european citizens. but let us be clear: the work will start again tomorrow with the vote; the vote must only send a clear signal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are many people in this house who have been wanting to see you on the other side of the table for some time, including myself. you have presented a huge programme of work, but you are also considered a wonderworker, and i would like to appeal to that wonderworker in you to take care of the members' statute as well. we need such a fair, respectable statute urgently. between your country and mine, there may be a problem, but there is also a solution. it is said that the german government does not want this before the next elections, but at the same time the german model - not when it comes to incomes and lobbyists, but when it comes to the salaries of mps - could become the model for such an agreement. we must stop the undignified greed here. this house must not be saturated, otherwise the democracy at issue will be seriously damaged.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the council! i would like to begin by making a brief comment. i think the issue of the statute is too serious to be demagogic about. i would ask you to do what you intend to do with all your strength and seriousness and, despite the demagogic rhetoric, to deal with this matter and find a solution. mr president, you made a very good speech. i would like to congratulate you on this - and i can say this quite frankly, as an example to many, not just christian-democratic leaders - for having found the right balance between the economic and the social spheres, and for having given priority above all to employment and growth. i would also like to support what you have said on the foreign policy aspects. in our neighbourhood, two important elections have taken place in recent weeks. the european union is not a party to the conflict. in both cases, the european union has been very active in bringing about change through democratic, open and transparent elections. in both cases, europe must now, as you have said, stick to the agreement. we must not disappoint the people whom we have encouraged, in a sense, to have the courage to bring about change, and whom we have helped bring about this change in transparency. you are quite right, mr president-in-office, and let us not be fooled. the development of ukraine, which we are promoting and supporting, is not a development against russia. we must nevertheless try to find solutions together with russia. ukraine must not become a pawn in a power game between the european union and russia. russia must of course acknowledge that there are changes that it may find unpleasant, but which the people themselves have chosen. it would not be in ukraine's interest to develop this now in a way that is contrary to russia. ukraine is too diverse and too diversified, and we know that precisely in those parts where there may be a certain orientation towards russia, there is also the economic strength of ukraine. the same is now true of the continuation of the commitment to palestine. we have been supporting palestine politically, morally and financially for years. we have always criticised the failure to indicate clearly where the financial flows are going. we have changed a lot and achieved a certain degree of transparency, especially in the palestinian administration. we have achieved this and we will continue to achieve it if we are committed and, as has already been said, not only finance but also help the palestinians to achieve their own state. the security of the middle east can only be guaranteed if there is both an israel secure within its borders and a new palestinian state. even if foreign policy may not be the focus of your presidency from the outset, we must not abandon the peoples we have helped to bring about change and we must help them to achieve the real political objective, also in our own interest, in the interest of stability and of the continent. (applause from the left)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have all seen the images of suffering, death, destruction, mud, tears. we still hear the cries for help from despair, from grief and the accounts of those affected. we are witnessing one of the greatest natural disasters and we know that it is not the only one that exists in the world. we are faced with global responsibilities in a global world, and we are looking for global solutions. we must recognize that we are increasingly interdependent and closer to each other than it often seems in the daily political polemics and discussions. i would like to begin by thanking the people concerned for having helped many citizens from our member states in spite of their plight. i want to thank the millions of donors who have not looked away, but looked in. who do not just complain, but act. and i want to thank the public authorities, the aid agencies and the volunteers who immediately stepped up. but i have a request too: i ask the european commission to put projects out to tender quickly so that co-financing can be secured and the necessary coordination can be achieved with all those offering assistance. secondly, i would ask that the proposal by commissioner ferrero-waldner not be ignored because we were all surprised by its force and its magnitude. and we can all do more in crisis management, coordination and prevention in our countries. we have to learn what we can do better. thirdly, i would like to ask the commission whether it is considering adopting an approach under the regulation on a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period from july 2005 to the end of 2008 to ensure that its aid measures are sustained, particularly for the countries most in need. if so, to what extent can the commission envisage extending the preferential offer to the countries concerned?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mr schmit, like my predecessor, for putting our concerns about a new debt relief initiative on a broader basis from the outset. i am, however, a little disappointed by the commission's very restrictive statements. i agree with mr schmit that when we talk about the effects of external debt, we cannot just take into account the countries affected by the terrible natural disaster. the devastating effects of increasing poverty around the world are not limited to natural disasters. it is worrying that in many countries debt service costs are many times higher than social costs. and it is worrying that we are miles away from meeting the millennium development goals that all un members agreed to. we are very proud of the unprecedented generosity and helpfulness of the people. i think we are rightly proud of it, but - and i am addressing this to the commission - we cannot give a little with one hand and take a lot with the other. the figures have been given. we must also ask ourselves whether it is morally acceptable and consistent with good governance that poor countries have repaid seven times their debt since the 1980s. we also make it quite clear in the european parliament's resolution that the hipc initiative, which commissioner potočnik has described as the most comprehensive debt relief initiative, is only a small step, which is obviously not enough. i would like to know what the specific objectives of the council presidency are in this area, also in cooperation with the other international partners, because i have the feeling, from what you have explained, that the driving force here will be the council and not the commission.
the council has already taken a decision on this. i would just like to say that what we have so far does not take sufficient account of the decision of parliament. this is also reflected in the council, because if that were the case there would not have been an increase in criticism of political agreement in the council in the dutch parliament, the german parliament and poland in recent weeks. i would therefore ask you: will the proposal you are now drawing up differ from what we know? secondly, i would ask you what law will govern the vote in the council, whether it is after nice or not?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to return to what you said, namely that the directive currently adopted and being discussed in the council would be in line with parliament's wishes. it's not like that. it is not even in line with the wishes of the council, if we take account of the rules of majority. there is no longer a majority for this proposal. can you tell me how you intend to deal with this situation in the council? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information society is not left to the discretion of the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to give the new commissioner potočnik a piece of good advice: do not read everything your officials write down, you will drive better! secondly, what the commission has done here is inexcusable. mr potočnik, we are politicians enough to know what it means to put a trilogue partner in front of a fait accompli four days before the european elections. then they tried to crucify us, to put it simply. as far as sound management is concerned, we shall check, commissioner, what you have actually saved. i have a key witness from the commission itself, vice-president loyola de palacio. she writes to her colleague, vice president neil kinnock, on june 29, 2004, and i quote:
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not even though we have received a signal of hope today in relation to the tenzin deleg rinpoche case, we still have to demand that the proceedings against him be reopened and that they be conducted in accordance with the rule of law. otherwise it will be a stopgap tactic for all time, and we will have to deal with such cases again and again. we need a fair trial, not just in this case, but in many other cases. we must also, as the european parliament, defend human rights and threatened minorities worldwide, support their efforts and protect them against arbitrariness, now that the constitutional resolution has been adopted. we must ask our governments not to be blinded by the hope of good economic contacts and to ignore human rights. we must use the development of relations with china to help human rights there to make a breakthrough and finally restore the autonomy of the tibetan people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is not only in a constant process of internal development, but is also constantly expanding its external cooperation and contacts. this is important not only to represent economic interests, but above all to build networks, to demand and implement human rights, peacekeeping, respect for nature and much more. parliament is also active in many delegations in this field and we have achieved a great deal through these contacts. it is welcome that the european parliament now also wants to set up interparliamentary delegations with iran in order to enter into a dialogue with that country. many sensitive points must be addressed and called for during the preparation. the iranian government has in recent years - we have just heard - joined a number of un conventions, such as the convention on the rights of the child and the declaration of human rights. the penal code has also been changed to prohibit stoning, although this is poorly enforced. i'm afraid i'm still missing the declaration on women's rights. in this resolution we show that the gaps in many areas are very large and that human rights are not sufficiently respected. this applies in particular to women's prison sentences and arbitrary arrests. the way journalists are treated is also flawed. improvements are urgently needed here. the events in iran must be carefully examined and reviewed, and i would therefore like to distance myself from this resolution on two points. i shall be tabling an oral amendment to that effect. we must clearly express our vision of working together and stand by our principles, but also respect that iran has its own structures and must determine the path of change itself, even if it is not always easy for us to understand. the only way we can make a difference is if we don't waste the chance to start.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i propose an oral amendment to paragraph 8. i propose the following wording for the last third: 'in expecting action by iran to address other concerns of the eu regarding the fight against terrorism, the respect for human rights and iran's approach to the middle east peace process' and i ask you to accept my proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at the start of a football tournament, anyone, even if he has only qualified with difficulty, may wish to become champion, and this is certainly true in politics as well. i hope you'll make it to the championship with your program, but in this short time, i'd like to give you two thoughts to get you started. i would like you to take a very brief look at it and ask yourself: does it also meet the maxim of economy? could we not be a little more modest in the administrative sphere, and especially in the financial perspective? sometimes 700 billion euros over seven years can be more than a trillion over the same period, if i think about the political advance. and that brings us to the second thought. please be careful not to fall into the trap of giving in to the temptation to release funds for the upgrade. it is possible to create jobs in the short term, but it would be disastrous for the european peace project.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! as mr schulz has already said, you have presented a programme in which we can find ourselves in many places, and i should like to emphasize this. but it is the nature of members of parliament that they can never have enough, so i would like to concentrate on those points where i would ask you to go a little further. mr president, you have started with the question of better regulation, that is to say, different legislation, which we need. and you also started with the question: do the citizens understand what we want? i think that in the coming months or years we should concentrate on those issues which are of great interest to the citizens. and that is where we lack the commission's commitment to public services, and in a very concrete way, with regard to a framework directive. when citizens see one post office disappearing after another, more and more other public services disappearing, whole areas of land being devastated, they ask themselves: is this the impact of europe? i would therefore ask you to focus not only on the question of private services but to give greater consideration to services of public interest. secondly, at the beginning of your programme, there is prosperity, and then there is solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would ask you to go further. we believe that the european social model cannot promote prosperity without solidarity. and solidarity is not an obstacle to efficiency, to competitiveness, or even, as the nordic model shows, to flexibility in the labour market. if we want flexibility in the labour market, it is all the more important to have social networks to catch people in the event of a case. solidarity also means for us not starving and neglecting the public sector. we need a living, not a hypotrophic, living, adequate public sector for growth, for employment, and for a fair distribution of income. we need more investment in infrastructure, as you rightly said, we need more investment, especially in education and health. and here i come back to the services; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards private services, i would like to take up a word from president juncker: we want the market for services to be open, but we do not want social dumping. in this sense we must revise the services directive. solidarity in connection with prosperity also means, of course, solidarity with all social groups, including various minority groups - we are doing something here in parliament these days - and especially with the large minority group of roma and sinti. i think it would be appropriate to say something clear on this occasion. solidarity is also international solidarity, which we must practice, and this brings me to my final point: europe is a civil superpower. we are a soft power, but soft power is not weak power, soft power is not weak power, and i think we have to emphasize that. if we have been so successful in ukraine, as is now being acknowledged by the american side, and if we must continue along a sensible path without putting the last steps before the first, if we are going to be successful in the balkans, then we must apply this way of shaping international policy, for example, in iran. and we must also say to our american friends - and i emphasize: friends - clearly: it is not a question of the military route taking precedence, but of trying to take the civilian route as far as possible, the route of negotiations, the route of integration; that's the european way. i'm not saying there's no military component. if we say that we are a civil power, we also need a military component, so that we can give the civil power of europe credibility and a sense of urgency. mr president, you have taken a number of steps; we are not going to be able to do that. given that the united states, china and russia have very different ideas of the world, we must increasingly represent the european idea of the world to our own citizens.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to know which countries have increased their debt, which countries have increased their taxes and which countries have seen unemployment rise in recent years. i think you are making the right policy and trying to get europe to not follow the policies of these countries until 2010. i would like to ask you, mrs wallström, which countries have actually created jobs? who has created the most additional jobs? who has reduced taxes and who has made budget surpluses? i think we have to be very clear that we have these two ways in mind. do we want one or the other? the barroso commission has made it clear that the lisbon strategy aims to create new jobs by 2010, to raise real wages and to make europe more competitive globally. we need to invest in research to do that. i am asking that we double the funds for the sixth framework programme. this has already been clearly stated, but i think we must also target it on the 25 countries, we must take account of the rate of inflation and also set a proper time frame for this. we must work to complete the internal market, to have energy across borders in a competitive system, and - very importantly - to make the content of europe tangible: e-government, e-learning, e-europe. i believe that we must all support commissioner wallström in making the european union present and visible to the citizens of europe in the future. we have a lot to offer here and we must also pursue completely new strategies here in parliament to make ourselves more understandable to the public. finally, i would urge that the reimbursements to the member states should also be linked to european added value and subsidiarity, so that the european budget is actually used for the benefit of the citizens. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. i am also deeply impressed by the debate that has just taken place. i have to say, defend the beginnings! we often hear voices of hatred against the european union, against democracy in europe, and i believe that we should soon begin to educate, inform and bring european values closer to the european people. that's why this e-content plus program is very important to us, because it's about presenting high-quality digital content to the global networks. the strategic advantage of presenting europe in global networks is that global networks can be accessed immediately and directly, and that we can therefore exploit our opportunities in a global context. i believe that the funding of the programme of eur 149 million until 2008, which we have achieved in the second reading, represents a significant opportunity to significantly improve this european content on the digital networks. we have also set aside the 55.6 million until 2006. i believe that this programme has shown in the past that it increases our competitiveness, that it supports the lisbon objectives accordingly, and we are seeing a lot of new jobs being created in the information and communication technology sector. if we are to achieve an additional 10 million jobs by 2010, this content area must be a central part of the strategy to meet the lisbon criteria. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the mediation services that have emerged here should also represent new business models for digital content. after all the hype we have had on the internet, we are now entering the next phase of the recovery, and here the european commission has done an exemplary job. i would like to thank all those who have worked here very much, because this simply gives us the chance to set standards here worldwide that we can be very proud of. i also think that the e-content program should be very comprehensive - we see this in the budget - in categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. the european institutions should also be involved. we should think about how we can better prepare our content, bring it closer to the public, especially in schools. on the other hand, researchers will also be offered a wide range of links between virtual libraries, for example, quick access via search engines. there are also a variety of business models in search engines, which are very interesting, allowing new links, which provide very fast access to the most important digital content that exists. we are all aware that scientific resources have been greatly increased in recent years; i can only recall a library in an old monastery where the healing effects of chamomile in various fields were compared. this is just one small example, but it shows that science can benefit greatly from past findings. the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the task of developing a common policy on the environment. we're going to be talking about what licensing systems we can use here in the future, how we can handle the rights of use. it is also clear that micro payments in the telecommunications sector are the ones that offer refinancing or cofinancing models. we all know that what costs nothing is worth nothing. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i am known for my strong support for our european small and mediumsized enterprises, and we should also give a lot of support to digital television, especially with the programmes it offers, especially at the local level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications operators, the development of a european network of telecommunications networks, the european telecommunications network network network network network, the european telecommunications network, the internet, etc. there are entirely new ways in which europe could show that we are simply at the forefront of this. the european union - the european commission, the european parliament and the council - should set an example in the field of e-government. we should not only have the latest in hardware, but also the latest in software. i think best practice is to start with yourself. we should show that we have governments in europe who can show us at european level where we can develop. we can do a lot in the e-health space in the area of prevention, in the area of analysis. we can shape a lot of knowledge in the e-learning space with learning entertainment, so that exciting, interesting content is finally available to teachers in schools. we can give a great deal of support to the 20 languages and the cultural diversity of europe, especially at european level. the infrastructure we need here in the future will enable us to see this europe in a new light. we need the fascination with europe, we need the love of europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too was impressed by the debate on racism which has just taken place and i would also like to thank the president for his personal words. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr paul rübig, for the excellent report he has presented and, above all, for the rapid agreement on the eur 149 million which is certainly necessary for this important programme. let us not forget that the total market for digital content was already worth some eur 515 billion in 2002. it is growing and it should continue to grow, because it is part of our lisbon strategy to make europe the most competitive region. this, of course, also requires that these barriers, which exist in the union because of the different languages, cultures, mentalities and, of course, administrative traditions, be overcome. of course, we are also dealing with market failures, and to counteract this we need a certain amount of financial support from the eu, a stimulus funding to help us overcome these obstacles. we must fill the existing infrastructures and also technically possible new infrastructures, such as third generation mobile communications, with meaningful content. with this content, we can improve the lives of our citizens and, of course, make them easier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we have a functioning market with meaningful content, then that also means that sparsely populated regions can provide quality jobs and people will continue to live there; they will not be displaced. this is particularly true of mountainous areas and, of course, other sparsely populated regions. on the other hand, this also means that less traffic is generated in the urban centers, and it also has the positive environmental effects of not generating exhaust gases and other things. i therefore welcome this programme and i hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr schulz said that we must weigh every word we say today against the victims and the responsibility of the perpetrators. it took my country, austria, a long time to admit its complicity in the crimes of national socialism. the first wording of the present resolution - 'hitler's national socialists' - takes account of this shared responsibility; it's not just about germans. the wording proposed here again obscures this shared responsibility. i don't want to continue the argument here; but it is important to me that in this place and at this time today an austrian also stands up and laments with you the co-responsibility of his country. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. i think we can all agree in this chamber that all those who took part in the crime must be condemned, whether they were germans, austrians or others, and the term nazi germany expresses that. it is a matter of responsibility for all of us, and we must remember that. so i ask you to vote now and reconsider. it is not about germans or non-germans, it is about everyone connected to the criminal regime of nazi germany. that is what mr schulz's motion, supported by mr pöttering, says. (applause from the centre)
if that is the form of the request, we are in full agreement with that solution. it is not that we wanted to interfere in lebanese affairs, but we want lebanon to be able to decide its own destiny with complete independence and autonomy. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, the proposal is as you have said. it doesn't need a special reason.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i believe that you in the commission and we in parliament - at least the vast majority in this parliament - want to win over the citizens to the european project. if we want to do that, we must also provide content to the citizens and tell them what that content is about. we believe that social europe is at the top of the hierarchy. but a social europe means that we need jobs. we need growth for jobs, we need investment for growth, we need training, continuing training and lifelong learning, and yes, mr kirkhope, we also need increased flexibility. but anyone who wants flexibility knows that flexibility and social security - as in the nordic model - are not contradictory, but that on the contrary, citizens are even willing to accept more flexibility if there is a social safety net. and if there are also, for example, massive continuing training measures to help people to cope with this flexibility also socially. but we also need functioning public services. i am not entirely satisfied with what you have said, mr president, because the question of services is not just a question of the market. our public services are our own identity - whether it is the postal service or public transport - they are part of the european identity and the citizens want to have them defended accordingly. so it's not just an economic thing, it's also a deeply emotional thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must go public and tell the citizens what we are doing in this parliament, also on the basis of a proposal from the commission. we must tell them that we are there for them, and that is why i ask you to think in all legislative measures not only about better regulations in the technical sense, but always also about the citizens for whom we are making these laws and to whom we want to convey them. if the commission and the european parliament could do this together in the future, we will win many, many citizens for this europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but i am saying that we should not be able to do this. we need more optimism and confidence, more seriousness and clarity, more verifiability and the political will to implement what we have been committing ourselves to in our sunday speeches. we need more leadership, more leadership from the political actors, more leadership from the governments, more leadership from the commission. i would like to call for a little reflection. we are all here to implement and realize the four freedoms. and anything that serves the implementation of the four freedoms is proper policy. we have to think about what we decided with the constitution. i don't really understand the argument today. the constitution says: we are committed to the social market economy. we are clearly saying that the market is not an end in itself but a means to an end, that we need an efficient market that lives up to its social and ecological responsibilities. we have set ourselves the goal of full employment, we have set ourselves the goal of sustainability. why do we always give the impression to the citizens that we are playing one against the other? we do not want more populism in everyday politics, but we want greater responsibility for the future. i would therefore ask you, mr president of the commission, to check the subsidiarity of each proposal. explain to the citizen the added value of the european regulation. define the added value for growth, competition and employment! define the target group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the debate we had earlier has unfortunately something in common with the present debate. it seems that the focus is on confrontation rather than cooperation. i would like the world economic forum and the world social forum to be merged so that we can talk to each other instead of talking about each other. mr president of the commission! you said the eu is a global player. i mean, we have to go from being a global payer to a global player. tomorrow is an important day and i wish you all the best. the eu is called upon, the european union bears responsibility. we are co-responsible and dependent, we are participants and victims. our understanding of fundamental freedoms and human rights, our rejection of the death penalty, our rejection of child labour, our rejection of all discrimination, our image of the human being knows no national or continental boundaries. in this sense we are also responsible for what happens in the world. globalisation not only requires a european response, it also requires a debate on a global governance model. we need a global ethic. we need global principles of action, despite the differences in culture. and so i think that we have to stand for multilateralism, that we should support the initiative for the global marshall plan and take an eu initiative for a un conference, that this house should appeal to the churches of the world to convene a world conference of churches and agree on common principles of action, and i think that the european regulatory model of the ecosocial market economy could become an eu brand in the world and we would thereby contribute to changing the existing unfair rules of the global economy. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report addresses the intersection of acceptance between central decision-making in brussels and arrival and life on the ground. it is a common experience that, in the field of social security and the possibility of compensation for the provision of public services, customs that have been well-maintained so far are being called into question, so that many people still feel: for god's sake, now they are taking away the last thing! i can agree with the comments made by my predecessor, mr klinz of the liberals, in particular, that the solution from brussels must be based above all on transparency and that subsidiarity risks continuing to be the way of the small and imposing artificially high prices or favouring friends. i am also quite convinced that without a more rapid evaluation of best practice models, i.e. internationally comparable, by the commission, we run the risk of having to give a negative final or interim report in four years' time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i see what they do in many areas, especially online services, as additional subsidies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to support this proposal, but i would point out that when implementing this proposal, care must be taken not to destroy the local economy, particularly the fisheries sector. but in those circumstances we want to give our consent to this request and to the urgency.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the two rapporteurs are not only to present the position of their respective parties, but also the joint report. the fact that both reports have led to a very intense political debate within our committee, because they are de facto policy reports and not legislative reports, is shown by the fact that there are very large majorities on this question, but one group has abstained on both reports for the most part. this shows the importance, the guiding principles and the policy considerations which are addressed in both reports. i shall confine myself to the report which has been adopted. i have three preliminary remarks. firstly, the european union is a community of law. although we are a community of laws, 12 member states have, however, since the introduction of the stability and growth pact, violated its provisions or those of the treaty. there are five member states belonging to the euro area: portugal, germany, france, the netherlands and greece, and the united kingdom, which is not subject to the excessive deficit procedure but is nevertheless bound by the provisions of article 116 (4) of the treaty. second preliminary observation: we have a common currency, the successful euro, which makes the internal market our home market, but we do not have a common budgetary policy. we therefore need a common regulatory framework to enable the euro to fulfil its potential and the european union to achieve its growth and employment objectives. there is a contradiction to this preliminary remark. in 2002, only 4 euro area member states accounted for more than 18% of the euro area's gdp, and in 2004, 5 euro area member states had a budget close to balance. third preliminary remark: we have the lisbon strategy for more growth and employment and for increasing competitiveness. the reality reflected in the report is that the growth of the eu economy over the last decade has been well below its potential and there has been a decline not only in private investment but also in gross public investment, which has fallen from 4% of gdp in the early 1970s to 2.4% in the euro area. now, there are different conclusions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. we must go into the structural reforms. we must make demographic change the starting point for changes in our realities. the stability pact is a success because it makes the political debate about the necessary structural reforms, the failure of budgetary policies, the dangers for the euro clear and thus leads to a political discourse. the majority of the committee agreed with this view. this report - which calls for more political will in implementing the reforms, more courage to pursue longterm reforms, more seriousness and less excuses - also says that we need more willingness to reform and more honesty with the citizens. if germany now says that it wants to have the reunification figured out, then this is an example of how insincere the debate is, because germany has complied with the stability and growth criteria up to the beginning of this decade, has participated in the stability and growth pact and has not had a problem with it for 10 years. i ask you to give your consent to this report for more stability, growth and employment and for respect for european law and the treaty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that this report is another expression of the enormous helplessness that this union has experienced. it is a grinding and creaking noise in the wood, because various developments are running against each other. on the one hand we have the internal market, but on the other hand we do not have everything we know about sound regulatory policies, namely the need for a minimum of common principles. the result is the greatest redistribution of wealth in the history of mankind in peacetime, and not just on this continent, but here it is particularly bitter because we have, and had, the broad middle class, and it is now breaking away. i am sorry to say that there is no real way of countering this in this report. i think that enlargement has come too soon, that we are even encouraging wage dumping by the fact that very, very much of what has been warned about is turning out to be true. the first approach would now be to really create transparency about this, to make sure that these disparities are also represented accordingly.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. on 13 june 1985, almost 20 years ago, the idea of a european capital of culture was put to the council of culture ministers by melina mercouri, then the greek minister for culture, and a resolution was adopted. the aim was to make the specific cultural aspects of the city, region or country in question accessible to the european public. the 20 years of the european capital of culture are marked by a number of conclusions drawn from the palmer study of august 2004. the choice of the city as the european capital of culture has a positive impact on the city in terms of new cultural initiatives, the development of cultural infrastructure, artistic activities and accents, the level of awareness, internationality and the possibility for further cultural development, an increase in the number of visitors, revenues, but also an increase in expenditure. the cultural capital attracts mainly a cultural audience, but the european concept has not been fully accepted. the cultural dimension is often overshadowed by political ambitions, and the european dimension has not always been the focal point. the cultural capital can only become a sustainable project if it is integrated into a process of urban development and the long-term cultural development strategy. much has changed in the last twenty years in the development of culture and the arts in cities - but especially in the european union - which also makes a change in the decision of that time necessary. for example, the enlargement of the eu to 10 new member states in may was not taken into account in the list of cities nominated until 2019. the commission has already proposed that the new member states should be able to participate in the community's regional policy, but that is not the case. it is not justifiable that these countries should wait until 2019 to take their turn. the present common position is, however, flawed and does not meet the requirements necessary to deal with the changes in a more open, democratic and transparent manner. however, in order not to jeopardise the ongoing preparatory work for the capitals of culture in 2009, 2010 and the following years, in particular in austria and germany, i would urge that this common position be adopted at the second reading; the commission has already promised and is already working on a new draft by june this year at the latest. the new proposal should include the following requirements: adjustment of financial resources if there are two capitals of culture from 2009 onwards; the financial commitments currently range from 200,000 to 1 million per project. clear criteria should be in place to ensure that the maximum financial envelope is used to the full. the average grant for each capital of culture is currently eur 500 000, which corresponds to 0.83% of the budget allocated to linz. the european union is certainly not making a great contribution here. i would argue for a fixed contribution of 1 million per cultural capital if all the criteria are met. this should be taken into account in the financial allocation and in the cultural programme and in the financial perspective for 2007-13. it is also very important to us that the role of the jury be strengthened, that the tasks be more specifically defined and that the selection procedure for the candidate cities be improved. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of cities and towns, to provide a european network of cities and towns, to promote the development of the european union and to promote the development of the european union. the decision as to when and why a city gets 200,000, 500,000 or 1 million should also be clearly defined. where competition between several cities is possible, it is to be welcomed, but it should not be a mandatory criterion. austria and lithuania, for example, will enter the competition in 2009 with only one city each, but must meet the selection criteria in full. this is very important, and i think that austria has also shown with graz that you can have a very good performance with a city. i think that the european union should also support a stronger promotion of the cultural capitals and come up with a stronger programme in this area. the aim of the 1999 european capital of culture was to highlight the richness and diversity of european cultures and the commonalities between them, and to contribute to a better understanding of each other among europe's citizens. the new decision should go one step further and take up and underline the challenge of european integration, european diversity, and in doing so also the development of cultural cooperation within a larger europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i don't have to say much about the content. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are actually adopting for the first time a section of the so-called bilateral treaties with switzerland, and i think that the rapid treatment here in the house also shows that we want to have finally transposed into law positive results that have been achieved. we have repeatedly supported the commission in its efforts to achieve results in the anti-fraud agreement. we are all the more surprised that the commission should suddenly come up with the ingenious idea that the amount that switzerland wants to give the new member states as a cohesion contribution - 1 billion swiss francs - should be subject to a state contract and that it is not enough to draw up a memorandum of understanding. i would like to say to the commission that we have not negotiated with a banana republic - we have negotiated with one of the oldest and most stable democracies in europe. and what you are doing here - to make this clear - is playing into the hands of those in switzerland and in europe who are against switzerland's rapprochement with the european communities. (applause from the centre) i ask that this house develop a position on this and that you, as the commission, take this as a message from strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr florenz said that the natura 2000 programme was in danger because the financing was not clear. i think the disaster is even bigger. not only is there a lack of secure funding, there is also growing local ignorance and uncertainty about what it really means, or does not mean, to designate a natura 2000 site. with that in mind, a few words. point 1: the financing of the natura 2000 programmes must not be at the expense of farmers, and certainly not exclusively, otherwise - as mrs gutiérrez-cortines has explicitly pointed out - the owners of the land will be dispossessed more or less coldly. the second point is that it is not acceptable that the slow and unclear allocation of areas should lead to stagnation of infrastructure and economic development in large parts of the union. in large parts of rural areas, sensible investment programmes compatible with the nature of the rural area are not possible because the questions have remained open. it is also unthinkable that what should contribute to the union's reputation - namely this natura 2000 programme as a visible sign that the union wants to be not only an economic union but also an environmental union - should be turned into the opposite. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. brussels says to expel everyone. we do not know the exact amount of money, we will see later. if you do not identify areas - as the commissioner has now put it - we will take you to court.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would also like to add my congratulations to those of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i think this discussion is very important and shows that we need to put pressure on parliament to get its own instrument for financing natura 2000. a colleague said that some people see natura 2000 as a programme of civil unrest. but there are also many other sites that see it as a real support in the fight for biodiversity. i believe it is our duty to support these forces. i therefore support the idea of a future financial instrument of our own, as do many of my colleagues. i think it is also not entirely true to say that it is not about the amount of money that is being made available. we know from many ngos working in this field that the european commission's estimates of €6.1 billion in annual costs can only be a minimum. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. i can also benefit from an integrated approach, but i can probably agree with my colleague jutta haug who says that it is similar to women's policy; everyone who for years did not want to do women's politics said that we had gender mainstreaming, and then they waited for a miracle to create a progressive women's politics and equality. so if an integrated approach, then a two-pronged strategy; integration into existing funds, but also a separate financing instrument in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. natura 2000 is a very ambitious programme and has been around for a very long time. this creates some constraints for land owners. the commission is only now beginning to think about financing at european level. the commission proposes cofinancing, and i agree with that. the commission is proposing to finance the rural development fund and the structural funds. but there is a lot of evidence that the funds should come mainly from rural development, because we do not have a fund of our own for natura 2000. as rapporteur for rural development, i must make it clear that we must ensure that either a new funding fund is created to finance natura 2000 or that we get new funding for rural development. i want to make one thing very clear here: after the brussels decisions, which capped the agricultural budget until 2013, after the cap reform, which means that the modulation funds go from the first pillar to the second pillar i.e. to the co-financing for rural development , the only thing that can be done is to ensure that the landowners, the farmers, receive the compensation for their services from this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there can be no more europe for 25 member states for less money! i'm against any encroachment on property without compensation.
i have to say, madam president, the impact of our way of life on the environment is increasing rapidly. it would be too easy to draw a black-and-white picture of horror scenarios now. but let us also remember that we have also made massive progress in the quality of the environment in various areas. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of acid rain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. however, i think we cannot rest on our laurels, because there are also some alarming figures: environmental factors account for one in six deaths and illnesses among children in europe. allergic respiratory diseases have doubled in the last twenty years and now affect one in seven children. almost 10% of workers are exposed to carcinogens. the action plan now before us is therefore more than necessary. the precautionary principle must be used to break through, also for budgetary reasons. let us remember that the health of our people is our first priority. the poor health of the population is also putting a heavy burden on our national budgets. we must therefore improve the form of the action plan in the following areas: the commission was right to focus on the need to combat four environmental diseases, but its approach is insufficient because it has not taken account of the many recent scientific studies and, unlike the scale initiative, does not provide for the application of legal instruments. in addition, there is a lack of measures to inform the public about the causal link between pollution and health. there is no provision for continuous evaluation to verify whether the measures contribute to a cost-effective reduction of environmental health problems. research on the production and use of products of daily use containing allergenic or carcinogenic chemicals should therefore be given priority.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to begin by thanking mr grosch again for the great balance he has found in his proposals with regard to the depth of regulation. because that has allowed us to reach very broad consensus on many issues. i do not understand the attitude of the conservatives or of mr jarzembowski, who wants to impose a transitional period of 70 years on the switch to a european driving licence. i ask you, really, if it were a question of a single market rule, a transitional period of more than ten years would not even be accepted in principle. in this area, there is a move too far in the direction of a somewhat cheap populism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my question is whether temporary agency workers who post workers are actually covered by the posting of workers directive or whether there is a risk that circumvention or sham contracts could be used in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. could you imagine, commissioner, that border crossings between nation states could be given special support, and is it really necessary that the line be built definitively as a high-speed line?
the commission has already done so. i would like to refer to the commissioner's last reply to mr purvis's question. we all know that every death in traffic is one death too many. i think that, particularly as i come from a member state where subsidiarity is also very important, the question that needs to be asked of the commission is whether it is at all possible to start thinking about or carrying out studies to evaluate what would be really wise, particularly in the context of uniform regulations, such as those we need in road transport, in limits, etc.
the commission has already done so. i very much welcome your frank answer to the honourable member's question. but, commissioner, it is also in your interest that there should be continuous development, including for mountain and disadvantaged areas, so that these areas can continue to share in the general prosperity and social development and that there should be no abrupt end to these compensatory payments in the areas where they may eventually run out.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to mention two points in this report which i find particularly remarkable. firstly, i am very pleased that the committee on transport and tourism has stated, contrary to the commission's draft, that there should be no compulsory medical examinations from a certain age, because i believe that this measure would have been unnecessarily discriminatory. there is no standard statistic that says that age-related health risks are excessively contributory to accidents. on the other hand, we must bear in mind that we are facing a situation throughout europe where, particularly in rural communities, grocery stores, banks, post offices, etc. are closing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the second point i would like to make is the question of the ten-year limitation period. i was skeptical about this at first, but i think if you want to create a uniform regulation, you have to accept that there are countries where this driving license is an identification document and not just a legitimation document. i want to turn the tables and make the suggestion that you should stick to this 10-year limitation and i'm also in favor of it. maybe you could also make this driver's license an identification document everywhere. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her speech and i would also like to thank her very much. i would like to say that i have had a very pleasant conversation with women, who have been dealing with this subject. we have dealt with a subject which is capable of development, but whose development is far from complete. we will have to make sure that the implementation steps actually take place, and my predecessor has already mentioned a drop of water. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. firstly, that interoperability is really taken into account, because it is a major factor in the acceptance and impact of this new institution. if we don't manage to really design the nodes between the different modes of transport so that they become usable, then we're going to see little shift to the waterway, to our rivers. the second point will be that the means of transport on the water will have to be ecologically restored. there's still a lot to do here. i would like to mention one thing in particular: i was concerned about the safety of dangerous goods transported on the river. ris will help with that.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we all agree that human rights are universal and indivisible and that they also serve as a yardstick for the quality of international relations. the european union's commitment to give due weight to respect for human rights, whether in its relations with china, russia, syria, iran or north korea, is also a consequence of this commitment, although the list is certainly not exhaustive. that's the danger of debate, that the definitions are sometimes vague and ideologically abused. as regards the european parliament's resolution on human rights, it must not open a back door to the authorization of abortion under the pretext of reproductive health, because we are concerned with the protection of life and the dignity of human existence. i would like to concentrate on one case which is particularly important because it concerns a country with which accession negotiations are to be opened, namely turkey. but that's not the immediate reason i'm taking this case. the fact that in this particular case it is an austrian citizen who has been arrested and whose release is possibly imminent, also thanks to the intervention of the austrian authorities, is not the reason for me to raise this point. it could just as easily have been a citizen of another country. it is a worrying fact that in turkey today the alleged proximity to a terrorist organisation is enough to issue an arrest warrant, even though no criminal act has been committed. secondly, it is very worrying that the arrest warrants issued by the state security court are still being executed, despite the fact that turkey claims to meet the copenhagen political criterion. we all know that the arrest warrants issued by this state security court are in violation of article 6 of the european convention on human rights. if this case is to be symptomatic of the legal practice in turkey, neither the commission nor the council can take it up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner ferrero-waldner has made it clear that in order to achieve the millennium development goals we need a substantial increase in official development assistance, i would rather say public development cooperation funds. i think it is also important to congratulate those countries which meet the target of spending 0.7% of their gross domestic product on development cooperation. we should also congratulate those countries such as belgium, finland, france, spain and the united kingdom which have set themselves this target by 2013 at the latest. i myself come from a member state which is not at the top of the ranking either. austria is the final light with italy. i therefore ask the european commission and the european council what the cooperation and monitoring is like in practice, so that the back-up and the middle-up can catch up and we have enough public funds to make the european contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the council! it is not that the textile industry has been sleeping off the last few years. of course, it is often pointed out that this industry has had ten years to adapt to the situation. it's all true. but china now controls 20% of the world market; in three to four years it will be 50%. china has the lowest wages, a third lower energy costs. what about human rights? the number of jobs in europe's textile industry will be cut in half over the next three to four years from the current 2.7 million. the old eu countries such as spain, italy, portugal, greece, but also romania and bulgaria, not to mention turkey, will also be heavily affected. what measures will you take, commissioner, to limit these imminent extreme labour market problems in textile regions? what are your plans to encourage china to cooperate more closely? i ask you as vice-president of the international textile workers' union, because you can't leave the workers out in the rain like that.
i have to say, madam president, mr president-in-office, thank you for your reply. i think we have had this in several accession negotiations, for example when the negotiations with slovakia, with the mečiar government, were opened. i believe that we should not make the opening of accession negotiations dependent on one person, something that a country like croatia does not deserve. i think the council should prove that cooperation is not possible in practice. the croatian government has offered its full support. and if you want to make the general's extradition a condition, then you should also prove that he is in a territory to which croatia also has access. i find it shameful that for one person who has behaved badly, a whole country should pay.
mr president of the council! my question is this: the tax competition which has become a matter of course in europe is, i believe, also part of the internal market. one of the main problems we have is that small and mediumsized enterprises often have no idea what tax rules apply. we have over 100 different regulations in the area of vat, for example. will there now be initiatives to make the tax system more transparent for the small, simple man?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank my colleague mr tajani very warmly, because as a blacksmith i am naturally concerned about the steel sector and i want to express this concern. we now know that business can only be done when customers buy. but if the policy does not create the right conditions, it leads to bankruptcy or relocation of a company. i would like to ask commissioner špidla specifically what he intends to do to limit the negative impact of emissions trading on the steel industry as much as possible. we are facing a 15% increase in the price of steel production and another 15% in energy costs. this threatens the whole steel industry in europe. what will you do to prevent the negative impact of reach on the steel industry, where a highly threatening and industrial-hazardous situation is emerging? and will you be involved in the 7th framework programme for research in the steel industry? finally, it is also a question of how we can keep the threat of international hedge funds away from the steel industry, where steel, coke and coal are speculative and where responsible management is no longer possible today. it is in the lisbon process that we have the responsibility to focus on european legislation and to take appropriate action in favour of our industrial enterprises so that we can safeguard jobs there too. if we now see that five million jobs have been lost in germany, that we have five million unemployed here, then we really have to think about how we can bring european industrial policy to the point where new jobs are created instead of existing ones being destroyed. the commissioner has a special responsibility here and i thank him today for his commitment to our jobs.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we discussed the european driving licence yesterday in parliament and i think we have a vehicle where some of the politicians are really going for it, and i would like to congratulate commissioner potočnik on that. it is working to ensure that the lisbon agenda is successfully implemented, with new jobs and better incomes for our people. on the other hand, we have commissioners who are committed to reach and emissions trading, which will lead to a significant shift of substantial parts of our industry outside europe. i therefore congratulate the commissioner on the fact that he attaches the greatest importance to a european union based on knowledge, and that he is not only following in the old footsteps of the sixth framework programme for research, but that he is also seeking to set out on a completely new path with the seventh framework programme, in order not only to implement the lisbon criteria but also, and above all, to orientate the financial perspective towards new, better and safer jobs and thus, of course, to be able to compete internationally, because it is also primarily a matter of defending existing jobs. it will not be easy to achieve this by 2010. the doubling - whether it is now based on a certain share of gdp and what is included or not - is a signal that we are discussing spending 1% of gdp on the european union on the one hand, and 3% on research on the other. we are now seeing the huge gap in our ability to deal effectively with our future. i believe that this objective - knowledge-based training and continuing training, lifelong learning linked to research results at universities, but with a clear focus on new employment - must be pursued and that we must therefore also claim in the research council that representatives from industry, from research departments, must play a significant role in shaping the objectives, that the policy objectives we are funding with the lisbon agenda are also implemented accordingly and that we get the bureaucracy under control. we're sliding from one fraud allegation to another. europe is being made very badly at the moment. but we should be working on the positive, on the opportunities we are creating here in europe for our people. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, very warmly, to come to parliament on 6 april, when the programme is adopted by the european commission, immediately after the commission has taken its decision. there was to be an enlarged conference of presidents and the president of the commission was to present this seventh framework programme to the public together with you. we should also make a public statement here and show that we are serious about the lisbon objectives and that we want to achieve them. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you, commissioner, for taking up this important debate today. if you want to double something - and many millions of europeans would be happy to know about it - you can do it by using the internet. and i know a little bit about it myself, but what kind of investment do you really want to make? we are dealing with the real situation where 80% of the funds from the fifth and sixth research framework programmes go to the very large ones and only 20% to what might be called smes or even those that are even smaller. i think the main reason for this is that lobbyists have just gotten above-average influence from the big guys and have looked around for a long time, and said, "hey, now there's a doubling of the funds. where can we get more?" and that these people are very successful. the second reason is the commission itself. i see in a lot of what you do -- and as a longtime member of the industry committee, i've seen it over and over again -- that you still have that old world bank perspective: "big is beautiful". the same mistake that the world bank made back then, by continually funding oversized projects worldwide, is unfortunately being made by the commission. the new commission, the enlarged commission, would have a real chance of countering this evil and of moving away from the 80:20 ratio in favour of the large units. i did! this is precisely what would create jobs. i did! this is precisely what would advance what is associated with the european dream. the second question is, of course, in what areas are we really investing? i would like to make a warning to you: do not imagine that military equipment can make any positive progress in the field of research. do not make the same old historical mistakes. we are facing a new, stealthy buildup of arms here in the union, and i can only warn against it in a dramatic way. the question of nuclear use is less dramatic but more important. it is very important, commissioner, that if you want to double the amount, you clearly state what is really going where, that transparency is created, that it is really known where the funds are to go and that there is no hiding. you will have to decide here in the european union, when it comes to the representation of the use of means: do you want to go in the direction of propaganda? there is a lot of discussion at the moment about the man who really advanced this: josef goebbels. or do you want to go in the direction of enlightenment? i would urge you, in the interests of europe, to be more enlightened about the question of resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are many, many ways of saving in the union. this parliament alone can provide 50 million euros this year; it does not know what to do with it. less would be more here, and doubling is not in contradiction with the maximum of 1% net, as many countries want.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent replies and to apologise for a colleague who has asked very aggressive questions but has not found it worth the trouble to wait for your replies. thank you for your initiative. it is a task for parliament to continue to work together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to thank all the members, particularly those on the right, who have voted in favour of our motions. but unfortunately there were too few and the social concerns which are very important to us and to the citizens were not taken into account. that is why we cannot support the resolution. we will continue to fight for the social rights of our citizens. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make the following statement of vote on behalf of the epp group on the human rights report: we voted for this overall report, although we could not support some important paragraphs, particularly the paragraph on reproductive health and the brazilian initiative. i would like to emphasize that our group voted against these points because we do not want the human rights report to be used as a pretext to allow abortion through the back door of human rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have nothing against this decision, of course. but i would like to say that we discussed this morning with commissioner potočnik that on 6 april at 2.30 p.m. - and i would like to put that in the minutes - we are requesting an enlarged bureau meeting of the european parliament for the presentation of the seventh research framework programme. we ask that commission president barroso, commissioner reding and commissioner potočnik then explain the seventh framework programme to us in the european parliament. i ask that this be decided at the conference of presidents.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we could agree to that. if mr mccreevy were to make a brief statement on both these points, we in the groups could then set our priorities. i would support this as a compromise.
thank you, mr president. i would like to draw attention to another incident in turkey. according to press reports, foreign minister gül has criticised and actually scorned the representative of the european commission, mr kretschmer, for the criticisms he has made in recent days. i am one of those who voted for and support the opening of negotiations with turkey, and i believe that it is not appropriate for someone who is very calm and well-adjusted, such as mr kretschmer, to be treated with contempt by foreign minister gül. the commission should also know that we fully support mr kretschmer's justified criticism of turkey. we are in favour of opening negotiations with turkey, but we cannot do so in the way that foreign minister gül has done recently.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at this very moment a meeting of the bureau of this house is beginning with a highly problematic item on the agenda. there's an attack on the freedom of the press planned! in a house which is supposed to be transparent to the outside world, the bureau now wants to adopt rules which are a mockery of press freedom, which are supposed to allow only court reporting, without having negotiated with the members and without having made this public in any way. i would simply like to point this out to the public, and i would have asked the president to prevent this from happening before. the same applies to item 7 on the agenda. this is all directly related to the subject we are talking about here: the annual report of an eu institution, in this case the european investment bank. we have seen in recent years that a lack of transparency has made many, many things possible and practical, which need to be broken down. i welcome point 21 of this report, which expresses concern about the repeated reports in the press about possible conflicts of interest at the eib's management level. i am glad to note that there is already an amendment to this effect which seeks to repeal this. i remember very well the reports on this last summer, for example in the international herald tribune on 19 august of the previous year. i can't see that these conflicts of interest have really been cleared up. i cannot see that there has been any transparency in this respect, and i cannot see that the investment bank can be praised in such a generous way. i think the bank as a whole is important, but as we see, without transparency there is no trust and no democracy. that is as true of this house as it is of the eib.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is surprising that in the debate today members like my predecessor, who were not present when the report was voted on in committee, although they are members, are speaking with a mistake in the subject. i would like to make it clear that we are discussing the report on the eib today because this house is a living democracy, a living transparency and a living parliamentary control, and cooperation with the eib shows how dialogue with us has led to improvements and changes not only in dialogue but also in work. you're doing a great job, and i want to thank you for that, too. i would also like to thank the outgoing vice-president, vice-rector of the vienna university of economics, professor ewald nowotny, for his excellent work on the board of directors of the eib. what is the eib? the eib is a public bank established by the ec treaty as the main financial institution for implementing the objectives of the european union through its own investments and those promoted by it. it is therefore hopefully no coincidence that this week we are debating the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy, the preparations for the spring summit and the eib. i see you as a communicating vessel for the lisbon strategy, and it is your task to support these very objectives of growth, employment, competitiveness, social cohesion and sustainability. i would therefore ask you to continue to submit reports to us in line with the commission's new lisbon strategy and the action plans of the member states, and in particular to take greater account of our points 5, 8 and 10, which concern small and mediumsized enterprises, the heart of the european economy and the creation of jobs. (the president cut the speaker off) )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 145 of the rules of procedure in force. a colleague spoke directly to me, and i do not know whether she or i was misinterpreted. in any event, i would like to make it clear once again that in my remarks i have explicitly referred to article 21 of this report, which expresses precisely these concerns. so if representatives of the two major parties in this house in a kind of grand coalition say, everything is fine, then it must be fine for someone outside this grand coalition to say it's not fine, which brings me to my second point. i have also been approached by a colleague about my not taking part in the vote on this report. it has to do with the fact that i serve on three committees, which unfortunately often meet at the same time, and it's hard to be in three places at once. as regards information and so-called objectivity, i would point out that ewald nowotny, to whom the honourable member refers, was one of the main sources of information on this critical reporting, so we will unfortunately have to continue to deal with the whole problem in order to achieve the clarity and transparency that we do not have yet.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if the media is to be believed, and in this case it is, the five largest oil companies made a net profit of 65 billion euros in 2004, of which the three 'european' companies, shell, british petrol and total, made 37 billion euros. the current situation and the demand and development of the market suggest that this result will certainly be exceeded in 2005. this is not just a short-term cyclical fluctuation, but because of the energy demand of many large countries, such as china and india, these gains will continue to rise. these profit increases in 2004 alone amount to 20, 30, 40, 50% compared to 2003. what do companies do with these huge profits? it's interesting to look at the balance sheets on the internet. a large part of these profits go to the shareholders, and a good part of it is used to buy back shares. for example, shell spent eur 1,6 billion on this in the fourth quarter of 2004 alone and has a budget of between eur 2,3 billion and eur 3,9 billion for 2005. the same is true of british petroleum. there are even higher approaches for the following year, namely 6 billion euros for share buybacks alone, for price maintenance, so as not to be too much influenced by the shareholders, etc. on the other hand, we have a situation where the european union - and you, commissioner, have spoken very extensively and positively about this - is trying to develop sustainable energy systems and is also spending money on research. if i remember correctly, the various areas of community research are to receive eur 900 million between 2003 and 2006. this is actually only a fraction of what only the largest oil companies - not to mention the medium and small companies - which are also active in europe, among other places, have earned. this is also a fraction of what the oil companies spend to buy back their own shares and to be, in a sense, less influenced by the shareholders. this is a big discrepancy. i give everyone a share of the profits. but we know very well that oil companies are primarily windfall profits, which have not been made by their own investments or efforts, but by the market situation, that is, by increasing demand and increasing supply. so i think it's really time to get some of that revenue into the development and use of alternative, renewable energy, sustainable energy systems in general. normally, you'd do that with taxes. but that's not possible. the industry in particular has always said that it is very interested in voluntary agreements. the industry wants to show its responsibility in public. what better way for the international oil companies to show their responsibility than to be prepared to respond to the commission's request - i hope there is such a desire - to talk to the commission about this and to reach a voluntary agreement among themselves to use at least part of these windfall profits to research and develop sustainable energy systems. i would therefore ask the commission and you, commissioner, to give this proposal serious consideration, to talk to the big companies and hopefully to get something for this purpose. we could also use the money for other important research projects. oil companies would do well to show social responsibility and develop alternative energy systems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is quite right to protest when a member of this house, for demagogic reasons, constantly puts communists and social democrats in the same boat. i think you would also resist being lumped in with the independence party or other parties even further to the right. it is the right of a member of parliament to defend himself against such defamation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore not surprising that we can also fully identify with the work of the rapporteur for today's report, ingo schmitt. we thank him for having made a significant contribution to the development of a good commission text into an even better one. the council is also taking part in the process, and the circle of the three is thus closed. it has already been pointed out that we in the committee have largely unanimously advocated the highest level of responsibility and competence. we have elaborated on these general requirements in a number of specific applications. an important aspect of our subject has already been touched upon: the question of language competence, especially in the field of english. we have had too many tragic cases in the past where communication failures were the real cause of serious accidents. the committee has reached a near unanimous conclusion - and this has also been raised by the rapporteur, but indirectly also by the commission. this was not so much an expression of the fact that we did not consider this report important, but of the fact that we did indeed reach a broad consensus here. we want this consensus to be underlined in the plenary vote by a vote as close as possible so that we can take a significant step towards the much-vaunted single european airspace.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for having managed to conclude this subject in a very consensual way, in a very pleasant atmosphere and in a very factual way - at least in committee. i would like to mention a few points which were very important to me in this context. the first is to prevent social dumping. we cannot afford to do this in this area with such high security requirements. there was a consensus throughout the whole conversation. the second point is that training and safety are of paramount importance to all of us, and here we need training to a greater extent for special cases, such as kidnapping and the like, because this is where extreme stresses arise in this profession. thirdly, i also felt that, as a result of this directive, the staff of the entire safety chain, where relevant to the decision-making process, should be covered step by step, because we need to harmonise the whole and ensure mobility. i would like to say one last thing about languages. this has been one of the most interesting and hotly debated topics, and it has sometimes been felt that it was not so much a question of mastering the language of the host country as of erecting barriers through the back door. i would say that it would be the wrong criterion if we were to set up obstacles in this direction. we must ensure that the english language is spoken to the highest standard, and this is what we have done with this directive. i thank all my colleagues for the good cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the fight against unemployment as a cause of social exclusion and poverty is undoubtedly one of the most important tasks of the european union's social policy. but if you look at the unemployment figures in germany, for example, and also in my country, austria, it seems as if these efforts have already failed. in this context, it must be noted that the emigration of jobs to low-wage countries is accompanied by the emergence of a new sub-proletariat in the countries concerned through illegal immigration. for example, when, as in the german visa scandal, hundreds of thousands, perhaps even millions of ukrainians enter the eu disguised as tourists to work there as cheap labour, jobs in the eu countries are being destroyed. the fight against unemployment must therefore also be a fight against illegal labour migration and labour migration. of course, it is also necessary to prevent the free movement of services from bringing cheap labour into the eu by dubious organisations or companies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and, in connection with it, the prevention of nuclear weapons falling into the hands of terrorist groups is undoubtedly one of the main concerns of the international community of states. we therefore pay particular attention to developments in north korea and iran. i therefore welcome the position of the european parliament and my group in making it clear to iran that negotiations on a trade and cooperation agreement cannot be concluded until the peaceful nature of the nuclear programme has been fully demonstrated. the talks of the international atomic energy agency in vienna were unsatisfactory in this respect. it is also clear that we are expressing our concern about the supply of nuclear fuel rods from russia to iran. the situation in north korea is similarly worrying. as chairman of the joint delegation for the two koreas, i am aware of the danger this issue poses to the entire region. i therefore want to call on the eu, and here on the commission and the council, to do everything possible to ensure that the six-party talks can be resumed. this process is still open, despite north korea's recent statement. we call on north korea to return to the negotiating table. all diplomatic channels should be used to this end. although the european union is not part of the six-party talks - perhaps this will change - we have an interest in de-escalating the crisis and in non-proliferation. we are demonstrating this by our humanitarian aid and by our agricultural aid programme for north korea. the world food organization has pointed out the dramatic situation in the food supply of the population. it should also be in the humanitarian interest of north korea to channel its resources towards improving the living conditions of its people and not into an over-sized military build-up, let alone a nuclear threat.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the death of rafik hariri, the murder of him, was, apart from the tragedy for his family, also a tragedy for lebanon. i myself have met rafik hariri several times and have come to appreciate his great vision. we must now be careful that there are no new tragic developments in lebanon. one thing is clear, and one must admit it: syria originally helped to bring peace and stabilize the country. but as so often happens in life, not recognizing the signs of the times can lead to instability, creating new conflicts and preventing peace. that's why syria has to leave the country, both with its military and with its intelligence. the old guard in syria is still a guard that is actually standing in the way of the development of its own country. secondly, a clear word also to hezbollah. hezbollah has also helped to get israeli troops out of the country, to give the country autonomy, and to stabilize peace in the country. but here too, if hezbollah does not recognize the signs of the times and is not prepared to contribute to peace and stability in the country, then hezbollah cannot be helped, and no one in this house is prepared to support hezbollah. so again, if hezbollah is prepared to contribute as a political force to stability and peace in the region, then it certainly deserves some recognition. if it is not prepared to do so, then there is no recognition of hezbollah. finally, i would like to mention in this debate that syria also has a right to peace, stability and the integrity of the country. but syria must be prepared to make a serious peace with israel, and it must also be prepared to recognize the security not only of its own country but also of israel and to contribute to israel's ability to live in peace and security in this region. if syria does that, then we will be able to support syria as well. but this is a clear and unequivocal demand that we must make to syria.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join my predecessor on the services directive. the commissioner said that the software patent directive is not a comprehensible world. how can you stand up for what you have just stood up for when the lisbon strategy has just been so highly praised? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will continue to do so. how do you intend to protect those who you said were the most concerned, namely small and mediumsized enterprises, with these patents? they can't afford the lawyers. it's a game they're playing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's software is not subject to any restrictions. and you act as if it's in their interest, and you don't mention the people who really put you in charge, the big corporations. the attempt to abolish this freedom for the little ones in europe too, which is very different from the american market, to pave the way for a flat meadow where only a very few will make huge profits - that cannot be our europe!
i'm not going to tell you. i have a few questions about the software patenting directive in relation to the position adopted yesterday in the council. what does this position entail? if it is the dry text of 18 may, then it will not have a majority in the council either, because eight countries have announced or issued critical opinions on key points of the directive. four national parliaments have spoken out against the content of this directive. how will you take account of the objections raised by these states? the council has the responsibility to ensure that the majority is achieved. the text now remaining from 18 may does not have a majority in its present form. the objections raised by the member states have so far been disregarded. i do not want a power struggle between parliament, the council and the commission, but i do want objectivity in the treatment of objections in this directive. i expect you to.
the commission has already done so. i am surprised at the lack of self-confidence and self-respect of many of the colleagues in this chamber, and for one simple reason: who among us is the legislator, the commission or ourselves? (applause from the centre) we are in the first reading on the services directive and unfortunately in the second reading on the software patents directive because of a problematic procedure by the council. we are the lawmakers! both directives need to be amended. the common position on the software patent directive is unacceptable and we will amend both directives in the interests of the citizens and the objectives of the european union. we want both policies! i therefore welcome the commission's statement, because it provides clarity. but i also say: let us return to the real work of parliament, let us put an end to hysteria and misinformation and call on the eec not to demonstrate next week but to support us in the legislative process. we expect the same from the commission. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. on 17 march, the accession negotiations with croatia will begin. do you think the commission will be able to find general gotovina through interpol or europol? he's supposed to have a french passport. is there any indication that this general is still in croatia or any information on how to bring him to the court?
whether it would be possible to set up a complaints unit at the commission; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the member states are able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i am delighted that you are here today, on international women's day, as a woman. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr wieland, for his excellent report. it not only reflects the work of the committee on petitions but is also very informative and above all citizen-friendly and readable, which is not the case with all the documents of this house. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but i am saying that it has not been consulted on the matter. the more than critical attitude of citizens towards the community in some member states is due, among other things, to the fact that great promises of freedom and rights for citizens of the union are made, but the actual implementation is often incomplete, incorrect and lengthy. there is still a wide gap between the eu's blessings, which are so lavishly promised to citizens, and the daily life of the judiciary. what are the possibilities for the citizen to defend himself against these abuses? one of these is his right to petition the european parliament. enshrined in the treaties and the new constitution, it is arguably a central right of union citizens, all the more important since the community still cannot be compared to a community of states governed by law, with all its enforcement powers. we must therefore work to make the community a real community of law for individuals and businesses in the long term, and to make it possible, as a first step, to enforce the rights of eu citizens through the committee on petitions. the first is that it requires rapid procedures with concrete results, including infringement procedures with compensation for the individual, the second is that it makes the right of petition easier and more citizen-friendly, and the third is that all the community institutions support this right of petition. i think that this means that the council should be more closely involved, that it should be present at meetings and that the national level should be involved when it is called upon to implement community law. only in this way can we ensure that we build a europe for the people, with the people and not without them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last but not least, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr john bowis, on his excellent report. the report also mentions the joint parliamentary assembly as a forum for political dialogue and encourages the joint parliamentary assembly to develop political dialogue and political role. it shows that we have improved in recent years and during the last meetings and says in paragraph 6 that it is very welcome that we have found compromise amendments and compromise resolutions with our partners among the acp states. i would also like to say that it was not always the acp side which insisted on separate votes, but sometimes our groups, when the majority in the plenary of this acp assembly did not vote. the creation of the standing committees - this has been said many times - is a good basis for improving the political role of the joint assembly, and i would like to echo what mr schlyter said: we must think about how we can improve the functioning of these standing committees. they give us the opportunity to discuss our demands in greater detail and they also give us the opportunity to follow up our political demands accordingly. it is at least as important to follow up the demands what has become of them, what has been implemented as to put them forward. i think we have to think about how we schedule these committee meetings, because it is - and this has been said - a disgrace how few of us can attend. it is not that we do not want to attend the committee meetings; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union's added value is that we create peace, provide security, growth, employment and competitiveness, and guarantee social security and environmental sustainability. that's what we're working for. we have a new project: from emu, economic and monetary union, to emu, i.e. competitiveness, growth and employment. what do we have to do? firstly, we must give life to the european regulatory model of the ecosocial market economy, make it concrete and implement it, because the market is not an end in itself for us, but only a means to an end. secondly, we must make the single market a home market for all. i therefore say that without an internal market in services, the new lisbon strategy will not be achieved. thirdly, we should make the four freedoms a reality for all european citizens, for business and for research. fourthly, we must give new life to the stability and growth pact. what do you mean, "i'm not"? the commission has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. the same regulatory model applies to the lisbon strategy. we must not repeat the mistakes of the stability and growth pact in the lisbon strategy. fifthly, we need more leadership from the commission. we therefore need a european action plan, a european timetable, a european catalogue of measures and the dialogue between the commission and the member states in drawing up the national action plans, as well as the commission's monitoring. mr president of the commission, you are the coach and captain of the european team. the governments of the member states are the members of your team. the lisbon strategy for growth, competitiveness and employment should therefore be re-introduced as a project by all heads of state or government, and not just by the ministers for the internal market. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. against what you've presented today? against competitiveness, growth and employment? i call on the eec to call off the demonstration against growth, competitiveness and employment and, like the pse, to return to the boat for growth, employment and competitiveness.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council set itself an ambitious target in 2000 of making europe the strongest economic knowledge-based society by 2010. it would be good if we could achieve, not necessarily the strongest, but a strong social - the goal must also be led - to become an economic and knowledge-based society. the midterm review is not a positive one. it is therefore urgent that existing and new strategies be implemented consistently. education is at the heart of the lisbon strategy, alongside social cohesion, growth and employment, and everything is built on it. more investment in education, science and research is needed, but must be accompanied by reforms that respond to changes in both the technical and societal spheres. in concrete terms, this means that we need, among other things, lifelong learning - not the lifelong learning that sounds like a punishment - encouraging mobility in the professional, academic and research fields, cross-border educational opportunities, recognition of degrees that many still do not have, and access to education for all. this means no cutbacks in education, no tuition fees, no starvation of universities, no curtailment of teaching, especially in the sciences. they are the very ones that foster creativity and are therefore necessary for the personal and professional development of each individual. a strong social society also needs to take into account the gender dimension. the council must therefore, at its spring meeting, address the issue of equal pay for equal work, as was also the subject of yesterday's women's day. equal opportunities are just as much a part of it.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the lisbon strategy includes the use of all forms of alternative energy. they must therefore be encouraged accordingly. in addition to the well-known environmental protection and the important contribution to the kyoto protocol, the increase in competitiveness, regional value added and rural employment are just some of the positive effects of this use. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, dear presidency of the council, dear president of the commission! i would like to make a brief comment on the stability and growth pact. if i look at it as an economist, as i am trained, there are many countries that don't have stability rules -- like the often-cited united states -- and they're doing very well. there are countries that have strict adherence to stability rules with little success and vice versa. so, from an economic point of view, there are different ways. but there are good reasons why a community which is only beginning to develop into a community and wants to create a common market has been given such a growth stability pact, in particular the introduction of the euro. despite many complaints from this house, we have received a strong, almost too strong, euro. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a question of special arrangements for germany. it is a question of recognizing special economic conditions which may apply in all countries. after this change, of course, it is very true that all countries - whether germany or others - must adhere to it. it should also be borne in mind that germany is the largest financial supplier to the european union. in this sense, i think the proposals put forward by the luxembourg presidency are very, very valuable, and i hope that you will succeed in this endeavour. i hope that the commission and the president of the commission can help us to find a real solution now, because after that solution and after the start of the lisbon process, we need two things: we need even greater coordination between the individual countries in their growth and economic policies in general, and we need a solution to the financial perspective - if possible under the luxembourg presidency. i know that you have a great burden on your shoulders, which may be small shoulders from the countryside, but i hope you can solve it. we wish the luxembourg presidency every success, and i can say this on behalf of my group. it has created the conditions for a solution, particularly in the context of a new and sensible reform of the stability and growth pact.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not very much to sympathize with the commission and the council at this moment, when they are now trying to find a sensible solution to the stability pact. they have become victims of self-flagellation and also self-binding in the union. the stability pact was launched - particularly in germany - for very clear reasons, and it was this country that later had the greatest problems with it. i think one of the consequences of this for the future should be that you learn not to break things like this, not to start things this way, because the harm is now greater than the short-term benefits back then. the whole thing is a pile of rubble and has triggered a further crisis of confidence in europe. i really hope that you will now be able to break this gordian knot, in the interests of all young people and those who still believe in europe with a certain euphoria. it will be very difficult, but a lot of trust has been lost, although the original aim of the stability pact was to build trust. i sincerely wish you good luck at the forthcoming council, so that you can at least remove this stumbling block for the european union.
president of the council. the council would remind the honourable member that it is the responsibility of each member of the council to present his position at the press conferences following council meetings and to explain the elements of the debate which he considers he should present in public in order to situate the context of that position. the council does not normally comment on public statements made by its members. as regards the transparency of the council's proceedings, the council would point out that, in accordance with article 11 (6) of annex ii to its rules of procedure, the general secretariat of the council, after the adoption of decisions by the council in the procedure referred to in article 251 of the treaty, or after the final adoption of the act concerned, makes all legislative documents relating to that act, that is to say those which were drawn up before any of those decisions and which are not covered by any of the exceptions referred to in article 4 (1), (2) and (3) second subparagraph of regulation 1049/2001, accessible to the public. at the request of the member state concerned, documents covered by the above, which reflect the position of the delegation of that member state, shall not be made publicly available. however, as long as negotiations on a draft text are in progress, the council reserves the right not to disclose the identity of delegations where the conditions of article 4 (3) of this regulation are met. in this way, the council complies with the letter and spirit of the official texts, while ensuring maximum transparency. i hope my presentation was transparent enough too. as regards the publication of votes themselves, the council reminds the honourable member that in the legislative field, votes are automatically published and in this regard invites the honourable member to refer to the replies he gave in particular to a series of written questions in 2003 and 2004 on the same subject.
i have to say, madam president, mr president-in-office, this is very frustrating. you haven't answered any of my questions in any form. i am not asking you for documents, but i am asking you specifically: when you have council meetings and someone comes out and says: this and that has been said, what sanctions are threatened to council members in these cases? how are such persons treated? the other two questions do not relate to the legal situation, which i am well aware of, but to what action do you intend to take to counter these allegations that you are a secret society? the question is not what the legal situation is, but what is actually envisaged. i ask you again - in the interests of a very wide public - to answer this question: what happens to a minister or a member of the council who says: 'who said this and that in a confidential conversation in a closed session'?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the problem we always have in disasters is that aid programmes are already in place, but the market and opinion research among those affected is missing, which is a very important prerequisite. does the action plan foresee that in future the people affected will also be asked what their real needs are in the event of a disaster, so that they are not simply over-planned?
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. you yourself have mentioned that croatia should seek to cooperate with the court. i would like to know whether there is any evidence, from europol or interpol, that the general in charge is still in croatia.
mr president, the rapporteur, mrs locatelli, is very much in favour of this report. i thank you for the really excellent work and i thank our rapporteur, mrs brunetta. we all know that the challenge of achieving the lisbon objectives is enormous. in the field of research, we want to reach 3%, two thirds from the private sector. this means, in plain language, that if we are to make this demand to the economy, we must remember that 50% of the gross national income comes from small and mediumsized enterprises. more importantly, two thirds of the workforce are employed in small and mediumsized enterprises, i.e. those with fewer than 250 employees. the sixth framework programme has set an objective of 15%, which was not reached in the large horizontal projects, with the energy programmes being totally oversubscribed. i therefore ask commissioner potočnik to consider a strategy for how we can also bring research activities to fruition in the field of small and mediumsized enterprises. i believe that in the field of academic research, too, it is ultimately necessary to clarify where the responsibility for efficiency and evaluation lies. research produces know-how and creates value, which must be measured and evaluated; we need more transparency. i am also calling for an e-research programme. how can we make the simplest possible methods available on the net for applying for and billing research programmes and ensure that the commission also complies with the late payment directive which applies to all other areas but has not been accepted by the commission so far? we need optimal automation, better tools to improve the availability of research results. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. your answer has left many, many questions open and has raised new questions. i can tell you that the citizens of the european union are very unhappy with this arrangement and that there are many people who say they do not want to fly to the states anymore because they do not like to be treated like criminals. we must take note of this, because it is an opinion which has now become widespread among the citizens. i have a few questions to ask you in addition to your specific answers. you said that we should have an overview after a year and then inform parliament. do i take it that you cannot tell us at this time what happens in the meantime to the data that is being stored now, this year? do i take it that you cannot or will not give us information about the current state of storage, use and filtering of this data? the commissioner, mr president, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the question that arises for me is how to deal with the problem of data protection, which is of great importance to europeans. commissioner, be more open to this parliament, the people want information!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is probably undeniable that with natura 2000 we have a very ambitious programme with high objectives, a programme which makes a very important contribution to nature and environmental protection and also has a high social value. it is the european farmers, forestry workers and landowners who have created and are now preserving this valuable cultural landscape. helping to safeguard this cultural landscape is also the main task of natura 2000. in order to achieve these ambitious objectives, we must also ensure proper financing. natura 2000 has been around for a few years. but it is only now that the idea of financing this at european level has been introduced, and land owners have long since accepted certain restrictions. the commission proposes to co-finance the natura 2000 network from the rural development fund and the structural funds. as rapporteur for rural development, i can say very clearly that we must ensure that natura 2000 is really financed by both funds and that we need to increase the rural development budget. we cannot allow the property rights of our farmers, farmers and landowners to be infringed without guaranteeing full financial compensation. if we do not secure the financing in a sustainable way, the uncertainty will only grow. commissioner, after the decisions taken in brussels, which capped the agricultural budget until 2013, after the cap reform, which means that the modulation funds from the first pillar are going to the second pillar - that is, to the cofinancing for rural development - the only thing that can be done is to ensure that the landowners and farmers in particular receive the compensation for their services. we farmers are committed to sustainable agriculture. there can be no more europe for 25 member states for less money.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has already said that it is not possible to make a decision on the matter. we are all aware that the demands of society as a whole on agriculture have changed considerably in recent years, and not only in view of the reform of the cap and the ongoing wto negotiations. in order to meet these new requirements in all areas, it is also clear that a reform of the sugar market organisation is necessary. but, madam commissioner, the policy must create a fair framework which will enable our farmers to continue to produce sugar in a sustainable, economically and socially acceptable way in the european union. however, the communication on sugar reform presented by the european commission in july 2004 includes very profound cuts and changes in the existing sugar market regulation. the european parliament's committee on agriculture is not opposed to this reform, but we have advocated a moderate approach in our motion for a resolution. we reject the quota transfer between member states originally proposed by the commission, because we believe that quotas should be held by producers, by farmers. we also believe that the planned reduction in prices and quotas will mean a significant loss of income. we must not forget the alternative uses, especially biofuels, which have a great deal of potential. the foreseeable loss of income for our farmers must be compensated accordingly. i am confident, madam commissioner, that in its vote today the european parliament will support the compromise well worked out by the committee on agriculture and i very much hope that the commission will listen to parliament's messages when it comes to submitting its legislative proposals. the sugar reform, yes, madam commissioner, but with the necessary sensitivity.
mr president, we agree with mrs mann and the group of the european people's party.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am grateful for the opportunity to bring the issue of tibet to the attention of this house once again today. we must remind the people of tibet of the human rights situation in tibet and china, especially at a time when the desire to strengthen economic contacts is increasingly being suppressed and ignored, in order to bring about a solution. commissioner, you said that the commission would intervene if both sides approached you. for that, i'm afraid, we'll have to wait a very, very long time, because china has no great interest in tibet and the repression of tibetan culture being debated and discussed in public. it is our task in the european parliament - and also the task of all european delegations travelling to china - to make it clear that closer cooperation between europe and china is and must be measured by the example of tibet. this applies to the increased trade relations as well as to the questions of embargoes. the new attacks on tibetan religion are counterproductive in this context; i would like to ask the chinese government to take note of this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in view of the narrow result and the statement by the epp member, i assume that this subject will be dealt with very well in this plenary session, after it has been dealt with by the committee on the environment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out that on 19 january this year, following a complaint lodged by the greek orthodox church, the austrian cartoonist and illustrator gerhard haderer was sentenced by an athens court to six months' imprisonment for blasphemy. the judgment is not yet final because mr haderer has appealed. the appeal hearing is on april 13th, the day after tomorrow. i consider this to be an interference with freedom of expression and freedom of the arts and i ask the greek authorities to examine in this context to what extent their legal situation is contrary to the fundamental european rights to freedom of expression and freedom of the arts. since the austrian authorities have already closed the proceedings and since the case law of the european court of human rights states that no person may be prosecuted in a member state for the same act which was already the subject of proceedings in another member state which have been closed definitively, no european arrest warrant may be issued in this case. the austrian authorities should therefore inform the greek judiciary of the investigation without delay. (the president cut the speaker off) (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. two remarks have irritated me somewhat, mr president-in-office. the first was that the council would make no attempt to anticipate provisions of the future constitution. secondly, we should not argue about legal grounds when we are doing something for safety. the first is quite openly contrary to a trend in the debates of recent months, whether in the field of counter-terrorism or in the field of data collection; the council has already been at the very edge of the existing treaties, increasingly clearly and frequently in conflict with the guarantees of fundamental rights. i am reminded of the flight data, the debate on data collection in the telecommunications sector. it seems like it's high time we made a point here. the deepening of the internal security possibilities in the constitution, the improvement of the instruments in this constitution are inseparably linked to the fundamental rights guarantees of the charter of fundamental rights and the full participation of the european parliament. they're not separate. we will therefore be debating with you on the respect of fundamental rights, and we will also be debating with you on the respect of legal bases.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the directives under discussion today are central in three areas: the pan-european social protection of workers, road safety and competition. i hope that when parliament votes on wednesday it will be on the right side, namely on the side of humane working conditions, on the side of road safety and on the side of fair competition not only between the individual companies operating on the road but also between the different modes of transport. the situation in this area has been getting worse and worse in recent years. we are faced with social dumping of the greatest magnitude, particularly among long-distance drivers, but also among bus drivers. we found that, according to the controls, people worked 38 hours continuously. it's only possible with caffeine and other substances, including banned substances, otherwise no human being can survive. it is obvious that this is a threat to road safety and that this threat is not just posed by the 40-tonne lorries but also by the so-called sprinters, the small lorries that travel the long distance. because here - and the figures are not only for germany - we have to say that there has been a huge increase in the risk to road safety and that these drivers in particular are under enormous pressure. it is the internet providers, the just-in-time services, who naturally face particularly high pressure and who also need to be protected throughout europe, just as other road users need to be protected from overtired drivers. they remember the dramatic tunnels disasters. here too, driver fatigue is discussed as a possible cause. that was just the tip of the iceberg. we have to find that out over and over again. unfortunately, the council is clearly on the wrong side of this. i am sorry to say this in such a harsh way: sometimes the council has given the impression that it is the diplomatic representation of the black sheep in the whole spectrum of business on the streets of europe, and i would regret that. i ask you to support our position and to do a good job of improving road safety, of increasing the social credibility of europe and of allowing increased control densities in sensitive areas, because here too we have increased requirements for road safety. let us show that the european parliament is the social conscience of the european union! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to take this short time to thank the rapporteur for his qualified and competent work. commissioner, you said that this report was a very important report. i agree with you, because if this dossier becomes a reality, we can expect the situation on our roads in europe to improve in terms of social and labour law, and we can also expect that road safety will certainly be improved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on wednesday we have a choice between greater security and higher social standards on the one hand and greater profit for a few on the other, and i think the answer is relatively clear.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we really want to change the european transport reality, we must realise the 'level playing field' that is so often invoked among the various modes of transport and not carry it around as a slogan as in the past. the two texts on social legislation and road safety monitoring which we are debating today play a key role in this respect. if we succeed in bringing about a more orderly change in the sometimes scandalous conditions of driving and rest periods, with the help of our european legislation, we can only achieve a balance in personnel costs on the road and on the railways. that's something. we must not be satisfied with a paper law. compliance with the regulation must be controlled and it must be possible to control it. one of the concerns we are addressing is the use of digital tachographs, which are less susceptible to manipulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. as important as it is to have a more balanced framework for road and rail services, the two markov reports also have another objective: road safety. the over-tired drivers in too many accidents must be stopped. a 40-ton truck uncontrolled is a dangerous weapon. we cannot accept these kind of rolling bombs. the member states must take effective action to combat this dangerous situation. in this context, i find it particularly worrying that the representative of the member states, the presidency - at least at ministerial level - is not present in this debate today. perhaps there are ministerial rest periods in luxembourg which must be observed. i'm afraid the reason is different. we in the european parliament are increasingly putting legislative texts on the agenda at night. we should get over that. then, in a debate like today's, we might have the council here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me concentrate on the issues concerning parliament in this debate and, to begin with, let me stress once again how justified it is that there is a gentleman's agreement between the council and parliament not to check each other. as a result, we continue to see the quest for more and more here in parliament. this is true for 2003, but above all for the future. i very much regret that the report by mrs juknevičienė has been weakened even further in the committee. we have less control over travel expenses than this would allow. new opportunities have been opened up in the field of pension provision and the luxury supplementary pension for members of parliament. the important amendments tabled by the liberal group are an attempt to bring this back under control. but this is only about the settlement formalities, not the scandal of the pension scheme itself. instead of finally drawing conclusions from the situation we are in, we had to face another ghostly budgetary committee yesterday, which was concerned with the question of what to do with the 90 million euros which will be available to parliament for 2006, and nobody really knows where to put the money. the idea was then to set up a television channel to broadcast these parliamentary debates. the 90 million euros would only be a good investment in an information campaign if they were returned to the taxpayer. that would be good news. then we wouldn't need to waste any more of these funds.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur-general, mr terence wynn, has touched on a key point: the question of the co-responsibility of the member states. we know that about 80% of the european budget is channelled through the member states. i would like to mention one aspect which has been brought to light in a recent report by the court of auditors. we had about 3.1 billion euros of irregularities in the agricultural sector between 1971 and september 2004; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 70% of that, 2.2 billion, is still outstanding and not being collected. this brings us to the point where the member states simply pay too little attention to the european budget, to the money that flows back to the member states via europe. i am not quite sure that a statement by the finance minister is the appropriate means. we have, as the committee on budgetary control and as parliament, been able to achieve some success in implementing the so-called n+2 rule for the structural funds. we shall not fail to introduce a similar rule for recoveries in the end.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am convinced that the glenys kinnock report is a very good contribution to the european union's progress review of how far and whether we will achieve the millennium development goals. we are in a very, very sad situation as far as the chances of achieving these objectives are concerned, and the glenys kinnock report shows what changes in policy are necessary to have a chance of achieving these objectives. i would like to speak about the policy of debt relief and the report which will be voted on tomorrow. in the case of debt relief - and this may have escaped some of the members of this house - it must be said that two thirds of the developing countries spend more on debt repayment than on social services. the effects of this on the failure to meet the development goals need hardly be said. that means we need a change in many policy areas, but we also need a doubling of the current aid. this level must then be maintained for at least 10 years. that is why we must also commend those member states which have already reached the 0.7 mark. the glenys kinnock report stresses the need to reach the 0.7 mark for bilateral development cooperation. i am sorry that there is no naming and shaming here, but in the explanatory statement of glenys kinnock the states that are far from the 0.7 mark are mentioned. these are austria, germany, greece, italy and portugal. my request to the european commission is that perhaps a timetable be put forward for all the member states or that pressure be put on the member states to achieve this objective.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to report on the agenda as a whole. the agenda for today is typical of the way this parliament divides up our work. all the legislative proposals on which we voted today were discussed at night and behind closed doors, whereas during the day, in prime time and in front of our viewers, we discuss only texts of resolutions and the like. i think that's wrong. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mr president. i would also like to make a statement on behalf of the epp delegation on the juknevičienė report. in order to express our wish that a statute for members be adopted, we did not vote against most of the alde amendments and have broadly followed the epp line, because we believe that these additional motions are not the direct subject of a discharge report. we are aware that there are also negotiations with the council on the statute for members of the european parliament, and we want to see it negotiated as a package and that a sensible solution is found, which we do not want to prejudge.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not yet a year since the two leading candidates of the major parties, mr swoboda and mrs stenzel, in the eu election campaign in austria, said to the question of citizens concerned about the enlargement of ten countries then taking place, how to proceed with the candidates for enlargement: 'this is not up to date.' the extent to which voters have been and should be deceived by this statement can be seen from the reports before us. the policy of putting one's head in the sand is being consistently pursued. the arguments for preventing a premature accession are on the increase: corruption, administration, the unfulfilled eu constitution. we are not in a position to take that step ourselves. what is to be decided here tomorrow is irresponsible in the sense of a functioning and indeed democratic europe and will ultimately be directed even against those countries which are now invading this union.
mr president, mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs very warmly for the very careful and extensive work they have done. it may be that because of the very open reports, the reports seem more critical than they might be intended to appear. but it is right that we should make clear the points that remain open. i would also like to thank the president-in-office and the commissioner for the efforts they have made to respond to parliament's wishes and ideas. i know you've had to overcome many legal obstacles. what you have said today also clearly shows that, while supporting in principle what mr ferber has said about parliament's rights, it does not seem possible for the council and the commission to simply ignore parliament, which should, as the representative of the european people, issue a clear negative opinion in the autumn. this was the only condition for many of our colleagues to be able to agree. there's still a lot to do. it is not, as my colleague lagendijk, whom i very much respect, said, that everything used to be black or red or bad, and now everything is good. the previous government also did a lot - but too little, i admit - and so we have high hopes that this government will step up its efforts. i was in romania myself on friday last week and i noticed how serious the government and the various parliamentarians are about implementing the reforms. moreover, particularly in the fight against crossborder crime, romania's efforts are also supported by the new developments in ukraine, which is the first time that ukraine has responded positively. i ask the council and the commission to make sure that ukraine is helping romania to win this fight against international crime, and if the fight against corruption is won at home, the conditions are certainly there. but i must ask you both to take this seriously. parliament takes your promises very seriously. i hope you'll take our views very seriously.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that romania and bulgaria are to join the european union in just two years is supposed to lead to further stabilisation in the balkans, at least according to the preachers of enlargement. there is no doubt that romania and bulgaria are members of the european community of nations. it is particularly positive from the austrian point of view that large areas of a country which was part of the austrian family of nations until the first world war are joining the union. this does not change the fact that both countries continue to have major problems, not only economic and social, which have not been solved despite all the reform efforts. they also have major problems with regard to the export of crime, which is not least the result of corruption within the countries concerned. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. all these are problems which, in our view, indicate that it is probably too early to include romania and bulgaria. romania and bulgaria, sofia and bucharest, will have to overcome the fight against crime first in order to buy their way into the european union.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to join my group in congratulating the rapporteur. we know that together - but above all the rapporteur - we have achieved something. until a few weeks ago it did not seem that the council was really interested in reaching an agreement at second reading, and i think that our awareness of the need for co-decision has made a difference here. we were aware that members of parliament should not be intimidated by certain speeches by the council, and if an agreement cannot be reached in a friendly manner beforehand, we will use our right of co-determination and go to mediation. mrs ries said that there was a balanced compromise. we have been negotiating for about as long as the debate on this subject is taking today, about two weeks ago. i am not, of course, very happy about my group. but i think it's the best we've got. of course, some of the demands we had to make were sacrificed for the sake of compromise. i think it is good that the european parliament has insisted that instead of a very vague wording in the common position, there is now a clear priority for energy efficiency. i believe that this is essential for the success of this directive. i am also happy that i was able to push through with demands for more consumer information. mrs ries has already said that it is important to inform consumers, for example, about how to use an energy-based product more efficiently. that's just one example. we know that this directive is an effective instrument in the fight against climate change, but we also know that in the future, we will need a strict and good parliamentary control so that this instrument, in which we have some hopes, can really meet the requirements.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! rarely has a council document been so well received in this house, and this is reflected in our resolution. i do indeed see a certain convergence between the decisions of the council, the decisions and views of the commission and the majority in this house. it is a question of a social europe in global competition. this is important because in recent years many citizens have had the impression that it is about more competition, but not about a social europe, or that social europe is being lost along the way. one speaker today said that it is the political leadership in some countries that has made the constitution so negative or critical. but i think it may also be because many citizens have not been able to identify with this europe, because they felt that the social aspect was neglected or left out. what this council - and i would like to congratulate the luxembourg presidency - has achieved with the reform of the stability pact is not to open the door to more debt, but to take account of the individual situation of some countries and to increase flexibility. what has been said about the services market - admittedly in global affairs - concerns the opening up of a common market, but not social dumping, as prime minister juncker mentioned last time. that's our line, too. i am also pleased with what mrs grossetête has said, and i hope that this will go beyond the date of the referendum in france, that we will find a common line here to achieve an opening up of europe taking account of the social model. what has perhaps been overlooked is the pact with the youth. it is very important that we send a signal to our young people that their europe should be a europe of employment and a europe of social affairs. the social dimension does not preclude the need to make progress on a number of reforms. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we have a new proposal for a research and development programme. i hope, mr president-in-office, that you, and above all your successors, will be able to invest enough money, initiative and energy in this research programme, because if we are to be competitive, we must promote research and development. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i must say that we have already become very modest in our assessment of the outcome of the meetings of the heads of state or government. we would enjoy much greater confidence and credibility among the citizens if the actions of the governments of the member states were more consistent with the decisions. we are currently dealing with the corrections of decisions at summits rather than with the respect and continuation of the agreement. the president of the council is probably the only one who can actually bring about joint decisions at this stage. we welcome any kind of agreement, because otherwise we risk failure. i ask you to look back with me for a moment. i think the problem we are facing is the contradiction between the european treaties and political action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the blockades are being organized and the commission is being hampered in its powers of sanction and intervention. croatia: we decide to open negotiations with croatia on 17 march, but postpone the negotiation process, even if the conditions are met. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. bulgaria and romania: there is a commission progress report which makes clear where the conditions are not yet met, but there is a date for the signing of the contracts. parliament's consent is required, but at the same time parliament's rights on monday are ignored. lisbon: we want the internal market and therefore a single market for services, but some of us are misleading the citizens by reducing the services directive to the principle of the country of origin. i appeal to all of us, but above all to the member states: we must become more predictable again, we must gain confidence in the decisions and we must respect the rules we set for ourselves. we need less corrections of the existing situation and instead more seriousness in respecting the decisions of the heads of state and government, the treaties and the directives. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in connection with amendment no 5, i find it outrageous that the greens/efa group has converted the individual support of individual members of our group for this amendment no 5 to the van orden report into a motion tabled on behalf of the epp/ed group. i see this as a deliberate political manipulation and i would like to emphasize once again that my national delegation supported this request on an individual basis. i thank our group and our chairman for respecting and allowing the different positions on the kosloduy nuclear power plant.
the reason for the referral back to the agenda is that in the forthcoming van orden report on the vote on bulgaria there is a motion on behalf of the epp-ed group which was supported only on behalf of individual members of our group, including my delegation. i would like to point this out before this report is put to the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to speak on behalf of my group against this motion. mr cohn-bendit may have missed that we have been having a very intensive debate with the council and the commission on this very subject in recent weeks. we have achieved - as mr wiersma's request has shown, and with the agreement of this parliament - that, following the commitments of the commission and the council - both of whom i would like to mention and for whom i thank commissioner rehn - we are fully involved in the further discussions and in the possible use of the clause which is intended to allow a postponement of this accession. i would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to mr lagendijk. mr cohn-bendit, if you had spoken to him, you would have seen how intensively we have been working on this together with mr brok and how we have achieved a positive result. that is why i shall vote against this motion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for the first time in the history of the union, we are today about to admit a country 20 months before the date of its proposed accession, a country - as yesterday's debate showed - in which there are serious, serious violations of human rights and democratic standards. it is now clear that if there were a single member state in the eu with such serious violations of democratic and human rights standards, there would undoubtedly be an article 7 procedure against that state. the vast majority of this house, including myself, welcome the accession of bulgaria and romania and look forward to the day when it will be possible. but there is no reason to issue a blank check 20 months in advance for the first time in the history of this country and take away the pressure of negotiation. we should oppose these serious restrictions on democracy and human rights. the french are currently voting on the constitution. the president of the commission has already said that he will not be present at the next partsession.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to point out that it is actually customary for us to stop voting at 1.30 p.m. because of course we have all the guests and we have to take care of the citizens as well. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, mr president, but i have to ask you to excuse me. i refer to article 160. the greens have called for a rollcall vote on a number of motions. we have agreed, however, that we will in principle adhere to the compromise we reached with the other parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i have supported amendment no 5 on the kozloduy nuclear power plant on behalf of the austrian epp delegation but not on behalf of the epp.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have voted today by an overwhelming majority in favour of the accession of bulgaria and romania. there is no doubt that there is a certain fatigue with enlargement in this house - and among some of those who voted for it - but also among the population. it is particularly difficult at this time to talk about the next steps in enlargement. however, we must all - the council, the commission and parliament - make it clear to the people that this is the only chance to stabilise this region and that the risks posed by negative developments in this area - whether it be crossborder crime, corruption or the outbreak of new ethnic conflicts - can only be prevented by a clear european approach. i am very grateful to the presidency and the commission for making this very clear today. we must now - and this is precisely the decision we have taken today - concentrate on this region. i hope that the solution which the council has thankfully found to help croatia, which is to follow closely what croatia is doing to bring gotovina to the hague, will be quickly taken up by both sides so that we can start negotiations in croatia quickly. croatia has done a lot in previous governments, and the current government could really be a beacon or a show horse for the rest of the region as well, depending on what comparison you want to make. the agreement with croatia is therefore not directed against serbia or any other country but is intended to benefit the whole region. of course, we would probably all be happy if serbia, montenegro and kosovo were to form a country together in a beautiful harmony. but that is unrealistic after all that has happened, especially in connection with kosovo. i therefore believe that it is right to find ways of achieving the independence of these countries - at least kosovo - while preserving the existing historical and ethnic links. whether it is in the form of a community of independent states or in some other form of cooperation, i ask the council and the commission to work with a lot of imagination. we must really find a serious solution next year for serbia, montenegro and also for the kosovo problem. if you have good proposals, you will certainly have the european parliament on your side!
the commission has already done so. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. the european union's assertion as a global force for peace requires a strong, unified voice abroad and the ability to enforce it militarily and in security policy. i think that any tendency towards the development of a central european state must be rejected, but i think it is right that there should be a common eu foreign minister with broad powers and a strong position within the eu. i therefore welcome the establishment of a european external action service. however, it is not appropriate for such a european union foreign service to be dominated and supported only by the large eu member states. the european parliament should have the same right as the council to decide on european foreign policy. if the smaller eu member states are to be equally available to the larger ones for the common european defence policy and for a common european intervention force, they must also be guaranteed the right to have a say.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if there is to be a statute now, it is clear in the european institutions that everyone will be paid regardless of the country. so, in future, should all members of parliament be paid the same? will there be a substantial difference in the salaries of civil servants, or is there an attempt to achieve a balance here?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thought you'd forgotten about me. i have the honour of being the last speaker to conclude this long day of work in parliament. i would remind you that we voted today on bulgaria and romania and that this vote was a positive one. both countries also have a large automobile industry and are directly affected by this proposal for a directive which we are now discussing. this proposal is an important segment directly in the product-related environmental protection area, as cars and light commercial vehicles are products that citizens use almost daily. i would also like to point out that we have regulated the direct environmental impact in other ways, particularly in the area of emission standards, and may i ask the commission to work quickly, particularly with the new euro 5 emission standard, so that these gases can also be reduced in europe. i would also like to mention the particulate matter pollution which has now occurred in german cities in particular and which is causing some problems. the approach adopted is generally to be welcomed. the epp group, however, took particular note of the following points: on the one hand, of course, the requirements for the components to be used in cars must not endanger the safety of citizens - both drivers and pedestrians. this means that recyclable but also safe materials must be used. in the long term, this means that we must continue to do a lot of material research in europe if we are to remain a world leader. secondly, the procedures and rules must be simple, transparent and practicable. this means that in the dialogue between the authorities and the car manufacturers, the vehicle that is causing the most pollution problems must be selected as the representative vehicle. it is also pointless and would probably be too bureaucratic to repeat this whole examination for the sake of minor additional features. as regards the deadlines, i would say that they are ambitious but, of course, realistic, since it would be unwise to ask for too many changes to existing series which have already reached the end of their economic life cycle. in this way, environmental protection makes sense and can help both the citizen and the economy.
the commission has already done so. the european union has repeatedly referred to the problem of doping in council resolutions and conclusions, in the helsinki report on sport, in the report of the committee on culture, in hearings, etc. and called for and offered various measures. the fact is that doping in sport is on the rise. the increasingly better and more difficult to identify products developed by the pharmaceutical industry and offered on the market in a variety of forms facilitate access to an ever-widening group of interested parties. in response to this development, the other side must also offer more detection methods. i therefore ask the commission to give priority to the research work on doping education under the seventh research framework programme and to provide additional financial resources for this purpose. the european constitution will also open up new opportunities for sport, and i can only hope that by voting for this constitution we will also have those opportunities. sport has important social roles in society; the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union does not become a victim of doping and racism, which would discredit the work of thousands of activists.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. everyone who has participated in this so-called debate by reading texts has been very vocal in their opposition to doping. there are probably still two types of sports enthusiasts in the world: those who half-heartedly accept and approve of doping, with the idea that doping can lead to success, and those who do not. of course, i am one of the latter. i think that every doping case is like a lightning strike to the soul, especially of young sports enthusiasts. the colleague on the left has argued that doping is directly linked to capitalism and not to totalitarian state systems; i think the opposite is true. the purity of sport becomes all the more important the more difficult the economic conditions and the greater the problems facing the middle class. so there is a chance to really stop doping. however, i would like you to focus on football at this time, as part of the 7th framework programme for research. there are specific questions here: is it true that the g14 the club that controls the champions league in particular prevents doping controls? is it true that it is youth clubs in particular that avoid doping controls? i can only encourage you to make this transparent.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. on 16 november 2004, the council gave the commission the mandate to negotiate the unesco convention on the protection of the diversity of cultural content and artistic expressions. the european parliament also voted in favour of this convention in my own-initiative report. the negotiations are currently under way at unesco to prepare for its general conference in october this year. all items on the agenda must be worked out and completed by the end of may. it is therefore important that the european parliament should make its position known and that it should be able to take it into account. what do you mean, "i'm not"? each state should have the right to maintain, introduce and develop policies and regulations to protect and promote cultural diversity and media pluralism. there must be no subordination to other international agreements. the convention must not be subordinated to the wto treaties. the convention must provide for a simple, single and binding dispute settlement mechanism to develop a jurisdiction of cultural diversity in international law. to achieve these objectives, the european commission needs to take a clear position and prepare the best possible coordination within the 25 member states. the eu has not yet spoken with one voice at the first intergovernmental meetings of experts held in paris last september. among those in favor were france, among the neutralists finland, and among those against were england, denmark, and the netherlands. the new and unfamiliar situation of the european commission being able to speak only through the luxembourg presidency gives the impression that the eu is not present. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states. it is a positive development that the commission has opposed the subordination of the unesco convention to wto rules. we need a coherent, binding text for an effective convention. i think that we will have to reach a conclusion in the next round of negotiations and, as i have already said, before the wto round is concluded. the united states has already succeeded in making canada, a country which has always played a leading role in this initiative, feel insecure, and it has also managed to find other allies such as new zealand, india and australia. culture must not be subordinated to economic considerations; it is a market in its own right, which needs its own rain to maintain and develop its diversity. we all have a responsibility.
a writer. the commission is not we are discussing today, for the first time, the humanitarian aid to the saharawi refugees, because their homeland, western sahara, has not been decolonized, as the united nations had intended in 1965, but has been occupied by neighbouring morocco for almost 30 years. we were in the refugee camps with some members at the beginning of march, where conditions are very difficult, and we were able to see not only the political situation but also the humanitarian situation. we know that the main food reserves will run out next month, and we are therefore calling on echo and the european commission to provide immediate aid, but also to return to the level of aid in 2002. i believe that the change in echo's policy to channel aid now through the world food programme has created problems in that there is now less aid for a growing number of saharawi refugees and less diversification in aid. this parliament must play its part in helping the sahrawis to exercise their right to humanitarian aid, but also their right to self-determination.
thank you very much, mr president. the european parliament's human rights reports are important political statements, not because they are legally binding, but because they have political force and allow for conclusions. but much of it, and this is the weakness of this report, is not necessarily human rights. let me make a few points. kyoto is an important concern for all of us, but it is not necessarily a human right. social rights are important. but they're in a different category. they are not human rights in the classical sense. the right to abortion is not a human right, it is a violation of human rights. moreover, it is not the eu's job to regulate any country in this area. this is subject to subsidiarity. i would like to continue with a quote from brecht. brecht once said in "the reluctant ascent of arturo ui", "the womb is still fertile from which it crawled". he means the anti-semitism and racial hatred that hitler preached in the third reich. we must not be indifferent to anti-semitism in russia, especially if it comes from one political stratum. if 20 duma deputies are calling for a ban on jewish organizations in russia, we must act. we also need to understand that russia has also caused terrible fighting and human rights violations in chechnya, and that much of what horrifies us in beslan has a political cause as well. suicide bombings are murder bombings. however, on the other hand, they are also a reaction to political circumstances and causes. we cannot over-demand human rights reports, including those of the european parliament. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe. the political solution is needed. moreover, there must be no double standard. it is not right that we should refuse to negotiate with the eu a country like croatia because it has unfortunately failed to arrest a general who is alleged to have violated human rights, while at the same time we are negotiating with turkey, which, as many press reports show, is still extremely lax in implementing the copenhagen political criteria. i don't want to hold the turkish government responsible for what the majority of the country reads. but if this is hitler's "mein kampf", it must make you think.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am very proud that there are several colleagues in my group who are very committed to representing and pursuing the cause of the roma. and i am very glad that we have many women in the other groups to contact, so that it is possible to write together tomorrow a new chapter in the history of roma integration. the reason why i have insisted on discussing this issue now is because i was visiting novi sad with a delegation from the european parliament. we have actually looked at the situation of the hungarian minority there and have seen, on the outskirts of novi sad, a neighbourhood where conditions and conditions are unimaginable, among roma and roma groups who have been expelled from kosovo. the fact is that in all the conflicts we have had in the past, the roma have often been the first victims. but even without such conflicts, the situation of the roma is not satisfactory at all, not only in the new member states, where they are more represented, but also in many of the old member states. if we want to point the finger and give recommendations to other countries on how to treat their minorities, it is very important that we treat our minorities - especially our largest minority, the roma - in europe itself, give them a chance to integrate and break this terrible vicious circle, which consists of many of them being less educated, some of them being pushed into segregated schools, and having worse job opportunities and lower incomes because of their lower education. less income causes worse health, and so it goes on in this vicious cycle. we'll have to break through it together. i have already proposed some time ago that we should have a commissioner of our own, responsible for minority affairs, and in particular for the roma. that's not what happened. however, i know and am sure that the roma issue is in good hands with commissioner špidla. but i would ask you, commissioner, as mrs roure has already said, to describe in this commission communication, which we are asking for, not only what is there, but also what more can be done, how this can perhaps be improved, even without much of our own competence at european level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the cooperation in this house has helped us to give that impetus by the resolution tomorrow, then we have taken an important step. with your help, commissioner, and with the help of the commission, we will be able to achieve really significant improvements in the integration of the roma and sinti in europe over the next ten years. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on 21 april the committee on budgets held an important vote. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year. an oral amendment has been tabled to hide 60 million of this in the reserve. i have spoken against this oral amendment as a member with a right to vote in the committee. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the committee's chairman, mr lewandowski, has ignored this. i would ask you, as president, to ensure that this vote is reversed and that the report on this does not reach the plenary. a letter to this effect has already been sent to the parliamentary directorate.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his balanced report. the development of high-quality health care is bound to increase costs. and if policy denies this fact, the path inevitably leads to second-class medicine. and who are the underprivileged, that is clear, history shows us. we have an increasing life expectancy with, fortunately, more and more elderly people - i say 'luckily' because important issues always bring new ideas and innovations and the eu 25-27 thus perhaps also becomes a humane solidarity society. this is why the report also stresses the need to ensure social balance in the increasing share of own costs in health care costs for poorer groups. healthcare in the eu - i am now saying eu 27 - is extremely diverse. on the cost side, this means that health expenditure varies between 4 and 9% of the respective gross domestic product. the poorest of the new member states spend the least and have the worst health care. this is a fact. this does not necessarily mean that more spending means better performance. therefore, more efficient management and a greater focus on the nature of care and needs is needed to finance long-term health care and long-term care. the european benchmark and open coordination are therefore essential. a final note on costs: the united states spends almost 14% of its gross domestic product on health care, and it's a poor allocator. that cannot and should not be our aim. on the other hand, it must also be taken into account that medical knowledge is currently doubling within five years. that means more money. but everyone has the same right to health care. that's what we have to put first. that is why we need benchmarking, but also solidarity. there's enough trouble. the new member states are still fighting corruption in the health system in many areas. corruption is most pronounced where the shortage is greatest. and the elderly are the poorest where the under-service is greatest; the increase in old age poverty is most pronounced in these regions. these are essentially the social challenges. believe me, the greatest fear of the elderly is when they think they are under-served or unable to be cared for in case of illness. budgetary pressures are the least secure source of public finance in the new states. these are just a few of the problems. but others are opening up: the migration of health professionals from new member states to the old eu15 strengthens the healthcare system there. so again: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in recent years, the use of financial instruments previously reserved for a very small elite has reached relatively large numbers of smes. you thought you could increase your wealth relatively quickly, and you woke up with a tremendous bitterness. two suggestions. firstly, is it not possible for the eu institutions to present very clearly to all european citizens what is actually available in such instruments at the moment, and that this also involves a risk assessment? secondly, can we not join the united states in what it is doing now, namely at least creating transparency and a touch of control in the hedge funds? we need this urgently in europe. these are the people who are pulling the whole thing, who, with their enormous leverage, are generating super-dividends and super-losses, and who are in fact constantly driving the whole economic fabric of europe in their direction. i think that should be a priority.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, commissioner, we believe that both the services directive and the internal financial market are in good hands with you, in good cooperation between the commission and the european parliament. secondly, the financial services action plan to 2005 is a success story 39 of 42 measures have already been adopted , a success on the way to the internal financial market, a success for the work of the european parliament. these are necessary measures. however, we must not overlook the fact that the large number of new and necessary regulations is misinterpreted by too many as a regulatory frenzy. there is a package of measures to be implemented in a very short time. and the single market is not yet complete. i therefore say: we need consolidation instead of over-regulation, implementation instead of over-demanding. and we need to evaluate implementation in three patterns: what european added value has the european action plan created? what problems are there and what action is needed? the need for action is on the table: the single currency is not yet the euro for all the member states of the european union, and this weakens the single market. tax policy is a national matter and requires unanimity, which weakens the internal market. the crossborder payments are not yet widespread. basel 2 is not yet in force, clearing and settlement is on the doorstep. we have the problem of supervision, of cooperation between national supervisory authorities. we say yes to lamfalussy, but lamfalussy cannot lead to less democratic control, less democratic legitimacy and less clarity in the decision-making and opinion-forming processes. when we do something depends on when we're done with the implementation and know what the next step is to be.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after much criticism from some member states, the rapporteur is now once again being praised by an austrian member of parliament. i think she has done a very constructive job on an issue which is not just about getting the majority in this house but also about the actual lines between the various groups. i believe that an important measure is to introduce these uniform standards, as proposed in some amendments for the main pollutants, throughout europe in order to avoid distortions of competition, but also environmental dumping. article 6 of the groundwater directive contains additional provisions for the protection of groundwater bodies. the water framework directive does not say anything about how to deal with indirect discharges of pollutants. i therefore consider article 6 very important and that we are sending a very strong and clear signal to protect the environment and i also hope that this parliament will oppose attempted water pollution. there is amendment no 45, which provides for a general exemption for good agricultural practice. i consider this amendment to be counterproductive to the protection of groundwater. despite the provisions for good agricultural practice that have been in place for many years, agriculture is still the main source of groundwater pollution. according to a recent report by the european environment agency, every body of groundwater in the eu exceeds the nitrate limits, and in agricultural land, 87% of the groundwater concerned. the conclusion drawn by some - and i think by many - colleagues that the nitrates directive is unnecessary is, in my view, wrong and i think the debate today is unnecessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. although two thirds of the earth is covered with water, we can use only a full 1% of it as drinking water. we know that. we take clean tap water for granted, but elsewhere thousands of children die every day from water-borne diseases. this clearly shows that drinking water is the number one food and that we must of course protect our groundwater well throughout europe, so that we do not turn the tap off ourselves in the future and bring a similar fate to future generations. the world's water supply remains constant, but the quality of groundwater is suffering from pressures from agriculture, construction, landfills, pollution and increased traffic. it is therefore very sensible to establish uniform standards and measurement methods for groundwater quality throughout the eu, which is why i will support this report. but i do not think that is enough. since, as the report notes, pollution may not become apparent for decades, careful management of these living resources is essential. the upgrading of organic farming in the context of the agrarian reform was a step in the right direction. but if we encourage transport or transport across europe, for example, or the cultivation of insecticide-intensive crops such as maize and tobacco, we also encourage the risk of groundwater pollution. we should therefore examine our support systems critically in this light. as a member of the european parliament from austria, a country with vast drinking water reserves which are important and precious to us, it is particularly important to me that europe as a whole treats water with care, especially groundwater. otherwise, the demand for our water would inevitably increase, and we want to avoid that.
the commission has already done so. i too would like to join in the words of thanks to the rapporteur, mrs klaß, who has been very cooperative in the preparation of this report. one of europe's greatest riches flows in our countless springs, streams and rivers, and it is our responsibility to protect our water resources accordingly. the protection of groundwater must therefore be one of the community's top environmental policy priorities. we also have to consider that polluted groundwater is much harder to clean than surface water. it is also widely used for drinking water, and its pollution can endanger human health, which in turn puts a strain on our health systems. we agreed with the water framework directive that european waters should be in good chemical condition by 2015. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with amendments nos 111 and 112 we have set out in the annexes the level of these parameters. if we did not set such values, the water framework directive itself would be ineffective and difficult to implement. the aim is not to achieve a uniform standard of groundwater quality in the community, but to ensure that this high standard is maintained for the benefit of the public, taking account of local and regional differences, particularly geological conditions. that is why we have tabled amendment no 91 which takes account of these different circumstances in europe. but we need precise procedures and not, as the commission proposes, vague approaches to how we can set these parameters. i therefore reject the commission's proposals in this direction. as regards the request for review and possible repeal of the nitrates directive with amendments nos 108 and 109, i am opposed to it, particularly for legal reasons. we need a level playing field for european agriculture throughout europe and no distortion of competition. (applause from the centre)
in writing. it is contrary to eu principles of equal treatment to grant freedom of movement to some of its citizens but not to others. the quota system gives switzerland the opportunity to counteract any adverse developments by extending the free movement of persons. i would point out, however, that despite my agreement to the protocol, the so-called visa affair in germany is now taking on a new dimension. the 'doubt on freedom of travel' decree has in fact led to a dramatic increase in the success of third-country nationals in obtaining visas. these have more than doubled, and many 'tourists' have taken up illegal employment or have slipped into prostitution. this generous handling and its consequences, which are not yet foreseeable, could increase the fears and apprehensions of some swiss to such an extent that the protocol would not receive a majority in a possible referendum in september. in the end, the eu would have to decide to withdraw from the free movement agreement to avoid an affront to the new member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a statement of vote on the vote on the human rights report by mr coveney. the epp-ed group considers the coveney report to be generally very welcome and has therefore supported it. it is of course, like all the human rights reports of the european parliament, a political statement, and the rapporteur, mr coveney, for whom the group has great respect, has succeeded in striking a balance between the various political directions in this house. i am therefore all the more surprised and astonished by the attitude of the socialist group, which abstained at the end of the vote - despite having tabled two amendments on abortion - only because it lost the motions on cuba and venezuela. this is bad political style. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i would like to make it clear, however, that we have examined amendments nos 8 and 9 with great care and have also subjected them to the freedom of conscience of our mandate holders. why would you do that? firstly, the access to abortion it calls for is not adequate to curb human rights violations. the report is concerned mainly with the rape of women, which is very much condemned elsewhere in the report. secondly, these motions indirectly suggest the existence of a human right to abortion. abortion is not a human right, but it is a violation of human rights, as the united nations sees it. thirdly, articles 8 and 9 also violate the principle of subsidiarity. the eu has no competence in this area, but is subject to national law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have done this myself. it is not the first time that the left-wing factions of this house have abused the human rights report to liberalize abortion. even if a majority wants to enforce it, that doesn't mean it's right. it is not binding, nor is the report as a whole. the epp-ed group has therefore deliberately taken account of the conscientious decision of members of parliament on these issues and has taken a negative stance on the content of motions for resolutions nos 8 and 9.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 154 of the rules of procedure, in conjunction with rule 132 in respect of rule 150. there is an objection to the dombrovskis report, which was voted on in the committee on budgets, although a member with a right to vote objected to oral amendments. i do not think that this report can be debated ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
on wednesday evening the dombrovskis report was put on the agenda, despite a procedural error in the committee on budgets: serious oral amendments were tabled, one member objected to them, and the report was voted on. you have already received a letter to that effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to repeat it here. i think that this vote and this debate are being held illegally and against the rules of procedure if you insist on holding them anyway.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw your attention to the vote tomorrow in the temporary committee on the financial perspective for the period 2007-13. as rapporteur for the financing and programming of rural development for this period, i ask you, mr president, to support the legitimate concerns and demands for sufficient financial resources for the continuous development of these areas, so that development in line with the lisbon and gothenburg objectives can continue in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to take this opportunity to draw the house's attention to a circumstance which is not exactly positive. on 1 january 2005, europe also became a reality with quota-free trade in textiles and clothing. since then, dramatic changes have taken place. within three months, textile imports from china have increased substantially, by 700-800%. a company in my constituency, which has already suffered greatly from this flood of imports, has had to reduce its orders by 8% and has already lost 9% of its workforce. this is a problem which affects about one million jobs throughout europe. i therefore ask my colleagues not only to support the commission in its action but perhaps also to influence it to make it even more effective and even more powerful.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to express on behalf of the mccartney family and the socialist group our full support for the search for justice, truth and peace. we had the mccartney sisters with us in a group meeting chaired by martin schulz, and we have admired their courage and their directness and will continue to do so. we are very pleased that mr de rossa and mr titley are taking this matter from two sides, but in the end they are one and the same. if i speak as a non-irish person, it is also to document that for us this is not just an irish problem, but a european problem. if we are to commemorate these days of the end of the second world war, we must also do so in the light of the fact that europe is for us the answer to violence, to politically motivated violence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but for all of us in this house, at least for my group, europe means seeking solutions to conflicts, seeking discussion, negotiation, and not seeking violence and who is more violent. we have had john hume, the nobel peace prize winner, in our group today, who stressed how important it had always been for him in this europe to see and recognize the differences, not just between two different sides, but also on the same side. it's not like someone you don't like is just murdered in cold blood, like this one, just because they might have a different opinion. even if i have a clear objective as a political group, i must accept different opinions. in this spirit, once again, our full support to the mccartney family, to the brave women, to the brave sisters who continue this fight! we will stand by them until peace and justice reign in northern ireland too and the european spirit is also felt by those who do not yet accept it. we will fight to the end.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we in this house are unanimous in our assessment of the outgoing member of the executive board. we thank him for his work and the good cooperation. we agree with the assessment of the new member of the ecb's executive board and we supported his nomination. the evaluation is positive and we wish him well. let me also take this debate as a starting point to say: i share the commissioner's view that there can be no automaticity in the nomination by certain countries; i think it would have been good if we had had several candidates for the vacancies and thus a competition of qualities, principles, opinions and principles. that was not the case here, which is not against the person, but we have to emphasize that. thirdly, we must say that the european central bank - and we ask the new member of the executive board to integrate himself seamlessly into this self-conception of the collegial body - plays a very important and good role, both in terms of its independence and in terms of its role as guardian, as a strong engine for a strong euro. the european central bank will play an even more important role in cooperation with the commission, also as a result of the changes in the stability and growth pact. i think that you should compare the two statistics you get, for example, so that you don't have a difference in the assessment of a country. i am also referring to the public statements and assessments made by the ecb as the guardian of price stability with regard to the size of the member states' budgets, the structure of budgetary expenditure and the structure of tax revenue. we need a strong and independent european central bank so that the euro can continue its course of success.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. one of the main problems we have in trade with china at the moment is the currency situation. can you imagine the commission conducting a study here or producing a green paper showing us how market mechanisms could also work in the monetary and financial sphere in china?
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, do you think that the problem could be solved by making insurance compulsory for the companies concerned? secondly, we are currently facing a very uncertain situation in the area of air fares, because airport charges and many other charges are often added to internet prices. do you think it would be possible to think about how to fix final prices for air travel for the consumer?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we in this house are unanimous in our assessment of the outgoing member of the executive board. we thank him for his work and the good cooperation. we agree with the assessment of the new member of the ecb's executive board and we supported his nomination. the evaluation is positive and we wish him well. let me also take this debate as an opportunity to say: i share the commissioner's view that there can be no automaticity in the nomination by certain countries; i think it would have been good if we had had several candidates for the vacancies and thus a competition of qualities, principles, opinions and principles. that was not the case here, which is not against the person, but we have to emphasize that. it is also clear that the european central bank - and we ask the new member of the executive board to integrate himself seamlessly into this self-conception of the collegial body - plays a very important and good role, both in terms of its independence and in terms of its role as guardian, as a strong engine for a strong euro. the european central bank will play an even more important role in this respect, also as a result of the changes in the stability and growth pact. it is not just cooperation with the commission. i think that we should compare, for example, the two statistics that the commission and the ecb receive from the member states, so that there is no difference in the assessment of a country. i am also referring to the public statements and assessments made by the ecb as the guardian of price stability with regard to the size of the member states' budgets, the structure of budgetary expenditure and the structure of tax revenue. we need a strong and independent european central bank so that the euro can continue its course of success.
thank you for the friendly atmosphere you create, madam president. during this period, parliament created an intergroup on smes. i would like to invite the commission to make the sme representative a permanent member of this intergroup in order to informally keep up to date. we meet every second wednesday of the month in strasbourg. i would ask you to forward the invitation to commissioner verheugen and ask him to give more details of the comments you have made today at the july part-session. maybe he can tell us more about the frame.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate shows us very clearly that all those involved have done a good job. to arrive at such a result in such a difficult matter is something that must be emphasized. the commission's task is to make the four freedoms a reality in the european union. the creation of the single market and making it a home market for all employers, all workers and all consumers is our aim. this directive is for the lisbon strategy, it is for the internal market, it is for the constitution, in line with the motto 'united in diversity'. the directive also shows that the european union is concerned with quality assurance rather than grading and that we recognise the specific characteristics of the professions. this directive is the first modernisation of the community system for the recognition of professional qualifications. it shows that we respect the public good of the professions. this directive shows that we are making regulations more uniform and transparent rather than creating new ones, that we are promoting the free movement of skilled workers, that we are supporting the interests representations, the professional chambers and not simply eradicating them by means of european rules. this directive is, of course, also proof that all the provisions applicable in the country of destination under the directive on professional qualifications are now exempt from the principle of the country of origin of the services directive. this directive is therefore complementary to the services directive. they are mutually dependent and i therefore believe that the work on this directive should be a good example for future work on the services directive. i hope that we can be as successful at the end of this debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the author of the oral questions, mr pistelli, has described the problems in sudan very well: the international community has for a long time ignored the problems in the darfur region because of the difficulties between the north and the south of sudan. it has also been said that the european parliament should not only analyse and criticise - although i think that is very important in this case - but also give answers and help to bring about justice. i therefore welcome - and we welcome this in our motion for a resolution - the decision of the un security council to instruct the international criminal court to review the situation in darfur. the conflict in the darfur region has displaced over a million men, women and children. the unhcr estimates that there are over 200,000 darfur refugees in neighbouring chad. there are many reports of attacks on people who are fleeing, but the un high commissioner for refugees is also very concerned about the attacks on the internally displaced in darfur. women report being raped while fetching firewood or water. it is therefore important that the traumatised idps are spared further trauma by forced return. any internal root transfer must be entirely voluntary. we are also calling for this in our draft. we also call on the sudanese government to cooperate with the international criminal court. it must ensure that those accused of crimes against humanity are brought before the international criminal court. without an end to impunity, there can be no stability and no peace. the culture of impunity must end! this is a major contribution to greater justice. it has also been said that a country strategy paper was drawn up between the commission and the sudanese government after the signing of the peace agreement. the aim of such country strategy papers is to promote peace, democracy and human rights. in this context, it is more than disturbing and calls into question the will of the sudanese government that it has come to the detention of human rights activist dr. mudawi. we also need to send a clear signal from this house that we demand the immediate release of dr. mudawi.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on 14 september 2004, i made my first statement on the situation in darfur. since then, you said it, things have changed. after 21 years of civil war and severe ethnic conflict between the north and south, a peace agreement has been concluded between the government and the sudan people's liberation army. a great opportunity for this largest country in africa! the problem now is not just to help millions of refugees to return to a decent existence, to provide them with the basic necessities of life, not just food and water, demining and land restitution, but above all their physical security. the european union's strategy of providing financial assistance to sudan of eur 400 million is the right response. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. here too, a lot has happened since our debate last september: the un security council has referred the serious human rights violations in darfur to the international criminal court. the un commission of inquiry has clearly defined the war crimes in this province as no less serious and cruel than genocide. the hot-button issue in the development of sudan is that the situation in darfur remains extremely critical and could lead the whole of sudan back into the abyss. the arrest of human rights activist dr mudawi and his colleague and driver is alarming and i can only support the call for his immediate release. the third factor which is positive is the role of the african union, which has considerably increased its powers. but given the size of darfur, 7,700 men are a drop in the bucket. the eu and nato should, however, be reluctant to engage militarily in peacekeeping. the european strategy, based on food security and education, repatriation and administrative and government capacity building, and also providing for demobilization and disarmament and training of security forces, is certainly of lasting value in stabilising the situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take this opportunity to make a suggestion. on 18 may, the commission will turn to the european transparency initiative. there are a lot of different ideas on the table. this includes a redesign of the internet presence. why not take a very concrete step by presenting in a very clear language on a better internet site of the council, the commission and, of course, parliament, what the world bank actually does, what we europeans have done there so far, how we are actually represented there, what specific projects are involved and what opportunities for influence there are? why do i say that? i watched the debate on television. unfortunately, almost everything that was said was said 20 years ago. i think that the necessary reforms, which most of us at the world bank in particular consider necessary, can only be brought about by making transparency public.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate has clearly demonstrated once again that we are a big payer in the world, but we are not yet a political big player! we must do everything we can to not only explain and regret, but are called upon to act quickly to close this gap, because otherwise we cannot meet our responsibilities at home and in the world. both reports - both the council and the commission - were less reports on the world bank than a proper analysis of our weaknesses, and both reports made it clear that the world bank is not our problem, but that we ourselves have a problem. the problem is that - as the president-in-office of the council has already said - it is not the council but the member states who are responsible. the member states are not the council? the member states in the council should make every effort to ensure that the council takes an initiative to remedy this weakness. it was said that we should start at some point. but we don't have to do it someday, we have to do it now! the constitution gives us the opportunity because the european union is given legal personality. we must use this legal personality of the eu to eliminate our weaknesses in external representation. i believe that there is a link between our policies in the imf, the world bank, the wto, the un and the eib. all our representations in these institutions must speak with one voice and be coordinated by one face in order to fulfil our role in the world, because the more globalisation affects our actions, the more we need a world order, a social, economic and principled order. if we do not start with ourselves, we cannot play our part in these bodies. we're the train, not the world bank!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the new millennium seems to be marked by a wave of change, particularly in the successor states of the former soviet union. the colorful revolutions in central asia, despite undoubtedly being backed by attempts to influence by the us and russia, were caused less by external influences such as the struggle for power and oil pipelines; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the people of central asia are dissatisfied with the old, rigid structures and want a quick, bloodless change. the citizens certainly hope for economic growth and prosperity. in principle, such reforms can bring about positive change. but a partial power vacuum, as it seems to be in kyrgyzstan at the moment, risks upsetting the mood and plunging the country into chaos and civil war. it is in the eu's interest to lend a helping hand and provide advice to stabilise the political situation. but if we interfere too much, this is precisely what can affect the slowly building balance in the country. finally, kyrgyzstan wants to prove that it is able to build on its own strength. it should also be borne in mind that a wave of revolution can sweep over at any time. it would not be surprising if this trend continues in other countries with similar conditions, such as kazakhstan, tajikistan and turkmenistan. the eu should prepare for this now and not leave this area - as one of my previous speakers said - to the us and russia alone.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after the democratic upheavals in ukraine and georgia, kyrgyzstan is now the third positive domino to clearly illustrate the case of post-soviet nomenclatures, even if these three cases cannot necessarily be compared. the overthrow of the previous akayev regime took place without any outside influence. it was a spontaneous uprising of the people who had simply had enough of electoral fraud, massive self-enrichment and the nepotism of a political family that has regarded the land as private property. the collapse of the soviet union almost 15 years ago is not a geopolitical catastrophe, as russian president putin has called it, but a geopolitical opportunity! if there has been any external influence, it has been due to the positive action of the osce and its subsidiary, the odihr, which is currently headed by an austrian. putin has apparently learned from the mistakes he made in ukraine. the opposition in kyrgyzstan has also acted wisely. she informed putin before the overthrow of the then head of government, and putin did not interfere as a system maintainer. he did not bet on the wrong horse, unlike ukraine, even though the ousted head of government, akayev, sought refuge in moscow. by the way, he was taken out of the country wrapped in a rug. russia can only benefit from stable democracies that are not corrupt. what lessons can the eu draw from this? first, we must support the process of democratization in this area. secondly, we should be careful to strengthen democracy and support civil society, especially in relation to the development of the much larger and richer kazakhstan, in order to avoid financial aid going in the wrong direction, because kazakhstan is of much greater geopolitical importance than the small but beautiful kyrgyzstan.
in writing. we are in difficult times of rising unemployment and economic weakness and the recipes that have been used successfully in the past are no longer working. the 'normal employment relationship' is becoming increasingly atypical, our society is becoming more flexible - this is also reflected in new forms of working time such as parttime or time accounts. if you want to make a career, you just have to be flexible. at the same time, however, we are faced with the problem of an increasingly childless europe. it would be a catastrophic mistake to try to correct this development by means of immigrants. the main focus will be on reconciling work and family life. balancing work and family responsibilities often pushes parents to the limit. flexible working hours can only be worthwhile for businesses and families if we adapt the framework conditions, such as childcare facilities, to take account of this development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation of women in the european union.
president of the council. you are referring to the third paragraph of article 159 of the treaty, which provides that specific measures may be adopted outside the funds referred to in the first paragraph of that article in order to achieve the objective of economic and social cohesion laid down in the treaty. these may be crossborder cooperation actions or other structural actions. i cannot give you any more information, since the task of the working party is precisely to define the other structural measures which may be covered by the measures provided for in the third paragraph of article 159.
president of the council. the european union is following closely and supporting the peace process in burundi. in this context, it welcomes the successful holding of the referendum on the adoption of a new constitution in burundi on 28 february this year. the adoption of the constitution was an essential step towards the restoration of peace and stability in burundi and in the great lakes region as a whole. throughout the ceasefire negotiations and the three-year transition period, the union remained in close contact with the parties present in burundi, both through the presence of mr ajello, the european union special representative, and through a number of visits by successive eu presidencies. our support has been expressed in many statements and actions not only in burundi but also in neighbouring countries and in south africa. it was the latter that took the initiative in negotiating a ceasefire, first under the auspices of president mandela and then of mr zuma, vice-president. the european union has helped finance the deployment of african troops in burundi, which was then taken over by the african union, and it is assisting the current united nations mission in burundi. the european union has pledged €4.4 million for the organisation of the elections and is pressing, in cooperation with the regional initiative, for an electoral calendar to be established before the expiry of the transition period, which was recently extended until 26 august. the european union's contribution to the elections covers one third of the overall budget for the elections and we are preparing an observer mission to be present in burundi for the parliamentary elections due to take place on 4 july. the national indicative programme signed in august 2003 under the 9th edf allocates eur 172 million to burundi, in particular in the fields of rural development, budgetary assistance and good governance, which, if supported, should help maintain lasting stability in the country after the elections.
president of the council. the question of the members' status which is the subject of the honourable member's question and in particular the principles to be applied for the reimbursement of the expenses of members of the european parliament are currently the subject of negotiations and discussions between the european parliament and the council. i cannot say more at the moment because these discussions are not yet closed, so it would be premature to comment more fully on this subject today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i ask very specific questions, please answer me. what's the problem with making the position paper public? i am asking you to take these positions, and you are referring to the introduction of my question. in this form - you have to tell the council - question time simply has no meaning. what about the position paper from april 26, 2005? why can't we see it? it's a matter of our very core. i'd read you the questions, but my 30 seconds are up. please give us an answer!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! my question concerns the coordination office in ramallah. one of the main problems there is unemployment. can you imagine that this coordination office could also coordinate economic activities between europe and the state of palestine?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report is a double scandal, which bitterly reflects the majority opinion in this parliament. he's just laying out the tricks of the trade. oral amendments have been inserted into a very general report, with decisions to simply put 60 million in the reserve of the parliament's foreseeable surplus of 90 million for 2006 - and we know how to do that budgetarily - and to set aside another 10 million for buildings, despite the fact that the secretary-general, who is also here today, and others have repeatedly said that this is not really necessary. instead of simply returning this money to the european taxpayer, instead of doing something for the reputation of this house and saying, yes, we have got the message, we can do with less, this has been cheated into it by means of - i should like to point out - oral amendments. why do i say "cheated"? because there were also corresponding objections from me as a voting member to these oral amendments, which were simply ignored. my objections to the bureau, to the president of the house, have not been answered as of this afternoon. an undated letter says that this was not what was intended. that's a matter of dispute. i will pursue all legal options. this decision, this report, was not made lawfully. it cannot be voted on tomorrow. in the interests of the european taxpayer, i would ask the few people here to vote against this report and particularly against these specific sections. there will be petitions for names.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i received an undated letter in english by fax this afternoon. i assume this is the letter. i note that other colleagues receive endless answers within three days; but in this particular case, despite repeated warnings, they have been delayed. and i have already answered that letter and i have firmly rejected it. i consider the procedure being followed here to be improper and illegal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr dombrovskis and those responsible in particular. i believe that there is no parliament in the world where a double-digit million euro is saved in a year for the benefit of the taxpayer. this sparing attitude deserves specific praise. we know that we are pressing for the statute. the statute will relieve national budgets of a very heavy burden, but on the contrary it will burden the budget of the european parliament. if we calculate the average cost of an official, this precautionary measure is particularly noteworthy and praiseworthy, compared with what we now have in the statute. it is our task to explain this europe even better in the future. we must make the activities of the european parliament more accessible to the public. one of the main criticisms of the election campaign was that too little was heard about the political activities of the european parliament. i would like to ask our officials to make a much greater effort than has been the case in the past in the field of information policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 145 of the rules of procedure and make the following observations. the remarks made by president lewandowski are not accurate. the practice in this house, both in the house and in the committee, is that: if there is an objection to an oral amendment in accordance with the quorum, that is, one person in the committee, there are 37 people here, has to stand, that motion cannot be put to the vote. this practice and this rule are not bound by the time at which such an oral amendment is tabled, mr president of the committee on budgets. we all know that this is usually a little more extensive in written form. we have seen exactly what i have described again this monday in the committee on budgetary control, where the chairman - also from a new member state - has repeatedly asked explicitly whether there is any objection to this oral amendment. and it was clear that it would not have come to a vote if there had been one. what is being constructed here is an attempt to evade responsibility, to not admit that you have started something that is not possible in this form. i would like to emphasize that, from the point of view of substance, too, i have this speaking time, it is given to me by the rules of procedure. i was referring to rule 150, which is exactly what i said. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we should also ask ourselves what hong kong and the doha round can do to help achieve the lisbon objectives. growth and employment are our priorities, and we know that the trade unions, the pensioners' associations, the children are demanding more pocket money. growth is a substantial need of this society, and i do not want to know what kind of discussion we would have here if we said we wanted to achieve the opposite of lisbon. we agree that the lisbon objectives are important and that is why it is also important to prepare well for the wto round. we need better internal organisation within the wto, but we also need to ensure that we arrive in hong kong with a sound minimum compromise. that's what we didn't have in cancun. if our specialists in geneva do not work out a minimum compromise, there is again the danger that we will not get good results. the central theme of the development agenda is that prosperity must be built. you can only give it out once. if you want to have it for long, you have to work it out yourself. we need market access for small and mediumsized enterprises. we need loans for start-ups, for education, for infrastructure. we have to think about how we can achieve in this round that the wealth in the countries can increase, not by redistribution, but by helping to help themselves with the classic structures of the family farm, with what the countries are used to. we must give these poorest countries market access at the local level, at the regional level, but also at the global level. we need a parliamentary dimension here too. commissioner, we do not need more power, we simply need competition of the best ideas. we are here as parliamentarians to help you, to enter into a dialogue with you, to achieve together what is best for europe.
the commission has already done so. the textile industry is still a european matter. as vice-president of the world union of textile, clothing and leather workers, i am well aware of the current situation, with all the social consequences of threatened job losses. the member states are indeed prepared differently for the new situation. the fact that the interpenetration of goods in the world economy is becoming more and more intense is clear and of course also applies to china. i know that too. however, the current pace of trade liberalization with unprecedented export growth rates is of course putting everything at risk. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. this is the current situation on the world market. the question is therefore whether the majority of the eu-25 are in full support of safeguard clauses out of solidarity and whether, after the textile industry's call for help, it would also be possible to accelerate the process. september may be too late. today it's the textile industry, tomorrow it's the next one. that would be the appeal to you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the situation is that we are importing a lot of cheap products from china. this, of course, strengthens the purchasing power of europe. europe is already the most powerful trading area in the world, and cheap imports add to our purchasing power. on the other hand, china has very low wages and very low purchasing power. in other words, the low level of wages in china also affects our sales opportunities in china, because we cannot sell our products there due to lack of purchasing power. that is why it is important that we debate market access, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. this market access should be above all balanced and based on reciprocity. both sides can learn from each other. the negotiations currently under way are of particular importance. it is also important for us in europe to consider what happens when the market mechanism enters into monetary parity. we are currently seeing very large movements and fluctuations in the international financial markets, and there is a presumption that the currency parity with china will enter a flexible phase. this will of course have a corresponding effect on our markets. we should think about how we can work with china to find solutions in the areas of subsidies, taxation and dumping. and we should also start with trade facilitation, so that there is more transparency in the future, so that the customs authorities are coordinated accordingly and we find a relationship between each other, as is usual for trading partners of equal value. both sides should see each other's problems and try to negotiate compromises. i wish mr mandelson every success in this regard today and i believe that the european parliament will be very firmly at his side in these negotiations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. information creates awareness, and lack of information leads to lack of consent. this is what we see in all the statistics from eurostat, in our daily experience with the citizen, in the surveys at home and, of course, in the developments surrounding the directive on the internal market for services and the debate on the constitution. i don't want to blame anyone today. i don't want to make demands on anyone either. it is up to the eu institutions themselves to put into practice what we have been saying in reports for years. it is not the institutions that have to do it, but the members, the member states, the members of parliament, the officials, the commissioners, ourselves. i would therefore like to make a few demands on ourselves, in addition to what the commissioner has so rightly said. firstly, i would ask that every commission proposal clearly and explicitly define the added value of the european regulation for the citizen from the outset. secondly, i would ask the commission to submit to the council a communication and information plan for each european project as part of the decision-making package. thirdly, i call for a concept for the training and further training of journalists throughout europe, to be carried out by the european institutions. fourthly, i believe that the council is the main cause of the information disaster. the council and the member states have been sleeping through the three-year debate in the convention on the drafting of a new constitution. the council and the member states do not share responsibility for the european legislative process. let us also take up their european responsibility at home in providing timely and comprehensive information to the citizens. and fifthly, i ask that we use the resources we have left for information and communication. it is not possible that we should publish information on the constitution, as happened in austria, and the meps and the members of the convention should not appear in it at all, with their pictures and their texts. i am asking for an increase in the number of visitors, the exhibition facilities and the translation service so that we can do what we want.
the commission has already done so. as we have heard on many occasions, trust in the european union and its institutions is certainly not in the best of shape. the reason for this is the great lack of information, as i and many of my colleagues are repeatedly confirmed or accused of at various events. we are therefore called upon to seek improvements. it is impossible that there has not been an information and education campaign, at least a long-term one, in the run-up to such an important decision as that on the european constitution. it is irresponsible that we have such a lack of knowledge here, which has the consequence that a lot of misinterpretations - as we have just heard from various sides - have created a lot of uncertainty in the population. we must also ask ourselves: how effective are the current information and communication strategies and how many citizens are they reaching? the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union's budget for the financial year 2000 is a very important one. no one can do it alone. various technical improvements in the fields of radio, television and the internet should be addressed and considered. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. as schools are the place for education, knowledge building and reinforcement, it should be the concern of the competent ministers of education to include the european union and its institutions as a fixed element in their curricula. as we heard yesterday in various good speeches about how successfully we have pursued european policy and advanced the peace project in recent years, we can only master the future if we involve, educate and hold citizens accountable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. a few yards from here is one of the most modern studios in europe, the arte studio. it would be appropriate if we had meetings in strasbourg, where we could cooperate together to enable the european citizens to see what is being done for them here. communicating the added value that parliament and its members bring to the european citizens is one of the most important tasks. one of the main problems is that the issues discussed in this house are very complex and wide-ranging. that is why we need to encourage journalists to identify more with european issues. i propose that we give awards to the best journalist or the best journalist, for the content we create, for countries, for foreign issues. turning to journalists and education - as my colleague has already suggested - is very, very important. i am always surprised at the enthusiasm with which visitors to parliament see our work and how positively they leave the house. that's how it should be in the future. we should also try to make it easier for schools to access european content in the new library programme we have developed. we have a lot of excellent dvds that sum up our work very well. the aim here is to provide colleagues with their own means of accessing their own productions, so that they can distribute them to schools, universities and interested circles.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 73 of our rules of procedure and would like to point out once again that lawyers and i believe that this report has not been produced in committee in a lawful manner and that this vote should not take place. i have already said that several times. there will be legal action. i am taking part in this vote in protest! (disturbance)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just ask you to take into account here in strasbourg in the next few weeks that we should take a 15-minute break before the vote so that the dignity of the house is maintained during speeches and votes and visits by honourable guests. a fifteen-minute break is good for concentration. i would ask the bureau to plan this in future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to say that we are in favour of the skinner report being dropped, but i would ask that in future translation - particularly of draft legislation - be given absolute priority. we have a big problem with translations, including interpretation. we often run into deadlines when such reports cannot be translated and dealt with in time. i would ask you to take note of this and to give skinner's report priority at the june partsession so that we can deal with it before the council meetings.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to commend the commission, or at least some of its members. on may 18th, you put a piece of paper in the street. i quote: 'we need to shine a light on how we work and find new ways of getting back in touch with the european citizen.' then it says that all official correspondence should be disclosed in a public register. this is an initiative of among others mr siim kallas. it is also about lobbyists and the power of lobbyists, which, unlike in the united states, is very opaque. i signed the petition - and i think many other members did too - because i was expecting clarification in exactly this sense, mr president of the commission, and what have we heard from you? how must it feel to be the editor of the world, who brought the whole thing to the public, as a reporter of the süddeutsche zeitung or the ard-tagesschau last night, when you hear your words: demagogy, abuse. i 'm not going to do that . not least as a longtime journalist. mr president of the commission, you are putting yourself on the wrong side of the fence. you're sending the wrong signals. they are, as they have said, in favour of an eu full of opacity, intolerance and - yes - paralysis. the shock rigidity surrounding the eu constitution is largely due to the kind of behaviour you have unfortunately shown today. they are in fact through this pushing away for the eu of the free market and yes of the power of the lobbyists. you are doing great harm to the ideals that so many of us believe in. this is the core problem: this detachment, this no-more-understanding, is what this is all about, namely the ideals of the eu. i am for europe, as are many others, but not for this eu with its abusive practices. there is no democracy without transparency. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. please wake up! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i thank the rapporteur. my group will vote in favour of this fourth framework agreement. it considers it a strengthening of dialogue and the legitimacy of both institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. interinstitutional agreements between constitutional bodies are unique in that they have a quasi-constitutional character. it is inconceivable that such agreements could be concluded at the level of the secretaries-general without the relevant committees, without a political mandate and without publication. i believe, mr president, that we should also consider a change in this method on the part of the group chairmen and that we should also apply the principle of transparency, which we want to strengthen among ourselves, to the conclusion of these interinstitutional agreements. a request to the commission: it is not possible at the moment to consult all the existing interinstitutional agreements in any way: neither on your website nor on ours, they are not published, they are not available in their entirety and cannot be consulted. this is a serious lack of transparency and i would ask you to make all existing interinstitutional agreements public. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would first like to thank mrs malmström for her great cooperation. we did not agree with the first draft on all points. but mrs malmström has been able to take many of our ideas and formulate compromise proposals, and this has created a very broad base. i want to thank her for that. i believe that we have now produced a report which strikes a good balance between those who say that russia is above all a strategic partner for us and those who think that we must look at the question of democracy and human rights above all in russia. i don't see any contradiction here! how can we emphasize one side and forget the other? i think that is what this report says. russia is undoubtedly a strategic partner! but we would have liked to have had russia as a strategic partner in the case of ukraine. ukraine would have wanted that, too. but unfortunately this has not yet been possible. we would like russia as a strategic partner in the policy towards belarus. how successful we could be in developing democracy in belarus if we had russia as a strategic partner! the same is true of the south caucasus. we would also like to have russia as a strategic partner in georgia, but not on russian terms, not on european terms, but on the terms of the people of georgia and the people of ukraine and belarus. so i think we have to go that way. we must keep repeating that we want a partnership with russia, but we must not change the basic conditions. commissioner, you have called for a common language. i think this parliament is ready for that common language. if you have any problems in the council, come to parliament! we'll support you fully.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the european union promises its citizens an area of freedom, security and justice. many dangers teach us daily that active and aggressive policy is necessary to guarantee security. but freedom is not only a matter of law, it also requires this active and aggressive policy. the rapporteur has made this finding the basis of her report. i thank her for it. i congratulate her, it is really an excellent basis for making a very important decision. i know it has not been easy, because as rapporteur for the article 7 procedure i have had a small taste of the conflicts between the groups, which mr kirkhope has also briefly mentioned here. i would argue that it is more a matter of the eternal fear that the european union may once again be able to assume authority somewhere than of other fears. my group is extremely happy that certain principles have prevailed in these conflicts. this agency is a support to the member states and not a patronage. it is not a question of constant monitoring systems, but of an institution of support, an early warning system, an instrument of awareness and dialogue. this agency is a network of information and activities, not a bureaucratization of them. i think that everyone who works in this field knows how urgently needed this network of networks in europe, to which the rapporteur refers, is. it is not a question of competing courts, but of avoiding litigation over the prevention of human rights in europe. it is not a question of europe playing a global role as a warning to the whole world, which is too fond of seeing the splinter in the eyes of others, but of critical self-assurance, of a constant critical assessment of human rights in our own home. thank you very much, you have our support, and i hope that the commission will take seriously the special role of parliament as a defender of fundamental, human and civil rights and will also give this report a corresponding legal basis, as requested by the house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. fundamental rights are an important asset for the european union and at the same time a trademark both internally and externally. the commission is therefore giving priority to all measures which can lead to improvements in this important area. that is why we are voting in favour of a broad human rights agency. but at the same time, an important caveat: the main responsibility for protecting fundamental rights lies with the central eu institutions. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, the parliament, as representative of the interests of the citizens, the council, as representative of the interests of the member states, and in particular the european court of justice, as the supreme judicial authority. this primary responsibility must not be called into question or otherwise jeopardised. so clear guidelines for the agency. a serving function is required for them. the exchange of know-how and experience on a larger scale would make it possible to improve eu standards in general. the networking of existing institutions, instruments and procedures can lead to meaningful improvements in this area. there must be no duplication of existing institutions, instruments and procedures, and we do not want to create a new bureaucracy. but it is also about not installing the agency as a bureaucratic, knife-edge task. i would therefore like to reject paragraph 47 of mrs gál's otherwise excellent report. if the agency adheres to these guidelines, it can make a valuable contribution to the protection of european fundamental rights. we are all called upon to contribute to this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a vote on the european constitution this weekend and both we and the european parliament want to increase the information in this area even further. we will all be faced with giving our views on the constitution on monday or at the latest on sunday evening. perhaps it would be possible to have statements by the president and other interested parties prepared by our press service in the house for this purpose. the citizens of the european union have a particular interest in this constitution and we are fully in favour of the positive vote on it and, above all, of the subsequent debate on it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can congratulate this sme sitting here tonight. we have responded in a very short time very flexibly to what is expected in the market. i see six people from the commission here. i congratulate you all. it is one of the shortest pieces of legislation in the european union. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner verheugen. you don't just talk about better regulation, you actually do it. it's about doing. as a company always says, "just do it". i would like to congratulate mrs thomsen very warmly. although she is new to parliament, she has helped to set a record here. legislation in such a short time is not a given. we know that the european company has been the subject of negotiations for over thirty years and that we are still not where we wanted to be in the end. the fact is: we want to shape lisbon, and to do that we need this programme. the lisbon strategy is ultimately about jobs and growth. we have found that 75% of the new jobs created in recent years have been in small and mediumsized enterprises. growth: what does it mean in plain english? every worker, every pensioner, every child wants a small net increase in personal opportunities at the end of the year. that means that we must fight to ensure that we all have a little more in our bank account at the end of the year, as we have done for the last 50 years. it's our obligation to give as many people as possible that chance. if you have a job and are busy, you have more in your bank account than if you don't work. that is why, although the programme was adopted very quickly and well, and with an increase, it is precisely in the debate on the financial perspective that parliament, the council and the commission should make every effort to ensure that we actually achieve the lisbon objectives.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i should like to take this opportunity to support what has been said with a few figures. i have obtained figures from austria, where the number of off-road vehicles has increased from 117 000 to 170 000 since the year 2000. in europe, one in every fourteen new cars bought in 2004 was an off-road vehicle. in addition, these four-wheel vehicles are hardly used in the field anymore, but for various reasons mainly in urban traffic. it was therefore high time that the european legislator responded to this development, because in accidents involving off-road vehicles other road users are at greater risk than other, smaller motor vehicles. accidents involving such vehicles are more than twice as likely to result in fatalities as accidents involving normal motor vehicles. it should also be noted that in accidents involving normal cars, one in 22 accidents ends in death, but in those involving off-road vehicles with such frontal protection, one in eight. the solution that has now been found is a very good solution. i should like to congratulate the rapporteur very warmly and once again urge that higher safety standards be found throughout europe in this area. i would also like to encourage the end-user to think again about the prospects for future development, and whether it is not in the long term, particularly in urban areas, pointless to continue to use such frontal protection rails. i also see the arguments put forward by the honourable member, which are certainly still in favour of it at the moment.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the proposed regulation aims to harmonise the different national rules on the addition of vitamins and minerals and certain other substances to foodstuffs. the discussions showed and will continue to show that this is a very, very difficult task, because firstly we have different views on the need for the addition of such nutrients for a balanced diet, and also because there are very different traditions in the member states of the european union. for example, the additive is allowed in a member state without restriction, provided that the food does not constitute a health risk. in another member state, the additive is authorised only if it can be shown that it is necessary for a balanced and adequate diet. there are various nuances in between, such as those member states which allow the addition of vitamins and minerals which are listed in a particular list. in addition, different ceilings are provided for. i would also like to emphasize that this regulation only regulates the voluntary addition of vitamins and minerals and that therefore national rules on the mandatory addition of nutrients to food are not affected. according to article 3 of that regulation, vitamins and minerals may be added for three reasons: firstly, to restore the amount of nutrients in the final product, since nutrients are lost through the various stages of food storage and production. secondly, the production of food substitutes - the most famous example is probably the margarine, which was originally produced as a substitute for butter. and third, the addition of vitamins and minerals to enrich, whether or not the nutrient was present in the original food. the basic idea of my report is that the community should strive for a situation where manufacturers add vitamins and minerals for nutritional and health reasons. i am therefore glad that the environment committee has accepted my amendments, which aim to ensure that all the vitamins and minerals added to food can also be used by the body. otherwise, there is a misleading of consumers and, in extreme cases, possibly even negative health effects, such as diarrhoea or a reduced absorption of other nutrients. the two issues most intensely discussed in this report are certainly the question of nutritional profiles and whether the so-called other substances should be regulated by a positive or a negative list. i believe that nutrition profiles are part of the poli bortone report on health claims and i hope that the amendments tabled to that effect on nutrition profiles will be voted on by a majority, because they will be debated after the vote. i think that a specification of the nutritional profiles in my report would be wrong. it is not a question of consistency or of the need for nutritional profiles in both reports or in none. when we set the nutritional profiles here, we're not just banning the health claims, we're banning the product itself. i think that is wrong, although i know that some of my colleagues in my group will support these motions. on the subject of certain other substances: i propose a definition of the other substances, because the vitamins and minerals authorized for use in the additive are listed and thus defined in annexes 1 and 2. article 9a is an important contribution to obtaining sufficient information on the addition of certain other substances. member states shall notify the other substances with which they enrich on their territory within 18 months of the entry into force of this regulation. annex 3 deals with the handling of the other substances. the commission proposes a negative list, which i, as rapporteur, support. this means that the other substances are subject to a risk assessment by efsa at the request of the commission or a member state and then divided into the following categories: banned substances and substances whose use is restricted.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her excellent report and for her cooperative approach. i also believe that this report is another step towards the creation of a european single market, particularly in the food sector, and that it also takes us one step further towards comprehensive consumer protection. i would like to focus on the other substances now, because they cannot be treated in the same way as vitamins and minerals, because they are different in nature and function. i therefore think it is wrong to try to force all the provisions on minerals and vitamins to apply to these other substances. we must examine whether the provisions for minerals and vitamins make sense for these other substances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not contaminated by the substances in question. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products concerned is not compromised by the use of the substances concerned. i think our priorities should be elsewhere. i therefore support the approach taken by the commission to seek only to create a legal instrument for other substances which can be used, if necessary, to regulate certain other substances which are identified by the european food safety authority as potentially hazardous to health at community level and thus ensure a uniform level of protection for all european consumers. for the rest, we can live in good faith with the current system, which leaves the authorization of other substances to the member states. in this respect, the 'positive list' proposed by some colleagues makes little sense. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we should therefore consider at short notice which of the other thousand substances should be included in such a list from the outset.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, who are still here despite the late hour! first of all, i should like to thank you for the good cooperation, not only with all the groups in the committee on agriculture, but also with the commission and its officials, the council presidency and all the staff in parliament and in our groups. this has made it possible to produce this very constructive report. commissioner, you have just said that you cannot accept all the amendments. but you know that the vote in the agriculture committee was unanimous. i hope, however, that parliament will approve this report tomorrow by a really large majority. this report on the financing of the common agricultural policy - and you have said this, commissioner - is also closely linked to the report on rural development. i am very pleased that we have managed to keep to the timetable we set when i received this report and that we can still vote on it in plenary under the luxembourg presidency. this is the only way to ensure that rural development programmes can continue smoothly in the new planning period. as i said, this is a very technical and administrative dossier. it is positive that this proposal brings real simplification and regulates the current legal bases for financing, in particular rural policy for the period 2007 to 2013. the political message is one of simplification and better clarity, and therefore of course also of better and more efficient control, spending and transparency, which we all welcome. in future, these two funds - the european guarantee fund and the agricultural fund - will be able to work very well. i also welcome the commission's intention to introduce stricter control, evaluation and reporting mechanisms, which will ensure that the agreed ceilings are respected. it is also welcome that efficiency and transparency are being increased here we all know how complicated accounting in agriculture is for eu expenditure. the committee on rural development is using the commission's proposal to create a common legal framework for the financing of these two components of the common agricultural policy. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. although this report only deals with the technical feasibility of financing, one thing must be mentioned in this context: in order to achieve the ambitious objectives of the european union in the field of rural development, the rural development fund must be endowed with sufficient financial resources. rural areas are of great importance in the european union, especially in the many new member states. more than half of our eu citizens live in rural areas and this area accounts for around 90% of the territory. it is about keeping the regions livable, attractive and active, so that a sustainable working and living environment is created. the development and implementation of positive strategies and perspectives is a top priority. the 2003 reform of the common agricultural policy has introduced sustainable changes in european agriculture and forestry, and has further enhanced the importance of rural development in order to meet the lisbon and gothenburg objectives. rural policy is policy for the people of the whole union. it cannot be said often enough that the fight for the eu budget, and therefore for the appropriate allocation of funds for rural development - the second pillar - must be our ambitious objective. commissioner, you have my support in this fight for a balanced budget for the future of rural development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. since the early 1970s, unemployment in the eu member states has almost quadrupled. temporary work agencies are becoming the largest employers in many countries. the increasing globalisation is bringing us massive job losses. the unemployment rate never reaches the pre-recession level after a downturn. more and more productive sectors such as agriculture, mining and heavy industry are being marginalised. what remains is the service sector, and that alone is probably not enough in the long run. the sector now accounts for almost 67% of all employment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed, and it is hoping that the council will take a decision on this matter in the near future. in this context, i also wonder to what extent the progressive privatisation of public services such as railways and the postal service, which in some cases has not produced the results hoped for, will still prove to be a serious mistake. infrastructure, along with a highly qualified workforce, is a key factor in the attractiveness of europe as a business location. i am very much concerned about whether we are getting closer to the target of near full employment with low taxes and dumping wages.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. there is no doubt that we need action in economic policy, social policy and environmental policy. to preserve what is good, we must change some things. we therefore need to adapt all three policies to the new challenges in order to minimise risks and seize opportunities. we need a new independence. we must ensure that the shackles are removed and the bureaucracy reduced, but at the same time that the necessary safeguards are maintained. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. i am a little sad because i feel that in the last few weeks and months we have been bringing together the economy and the labour market across the political groups and member states in this house too, not in the way the commission has done, but rather by returning to a debate based on the old class struggle: employers here, workers there, social protection mechanisms here, liberalisation there. we will not be able to solve the problems and give people more confidence in the political decision-making process. for us, the market is not an end in itself, but a means to an end. but we must strengthen the competitiveness of the market. the aim is to increase competitiveness, create jobs and take environmental responsibility. good social and environmental policies can contribute to increased competitiveness and to growth and employment. it does not necessarily have to be a barrier to greater competitiveness. that is why i say: we need the constitution because it guarantees fundamental social rights. we need to eliminate unanimity in tax policy. we need the completion of the internal market, we need basic social rights and standards in the european union if we want more liberalism and more market economy, because we do not want to throw the baby out with the bathtub, but to breathe new life into the organisational model of the eco-social market economy. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agenda for wednesday includes an important debate on the reform of the united nations and an important debate on transatlantic relations, we shall deal with the statements by the council and the commission on uzbekistan and then with the question on philip morris. there is very little time for that. in amendment to our written request - and in order to meet those colleagues who want at least part of question time and then the written answer - i would ask that half an hour of question time be reserved for debate and half an hour for questions to the council, so that we can have a little more intensive debate. this applies to the large groups as well as to the small ones.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i should like to take this opportunity to draw attention once again to a problem which, to my great regret, still exists, namely the subsidies for live animal exports. since the introduction of export subsidies for these transports in 1989, this house has voted several times for a deletion from the eu budget. although the suffering of animals, particularly in long-distance transport, and the resulting disadvantages for consumers are well known, these transports are still subsidised. in 2001 it was 41 million, in 2002 it was 57 million, in 2003 it was 67 million and now it is 77 million a year. this type of subsidy is an encouragement of extreme animal suffering and must therefore be rejected by all of us. i would therefore ask the honourable members to support the statement now before us and i would like to give some advice to the ladies and gentlemen who are now negotiating the eu budget: the abolition of these subsidies would save several hundred million euros, and that would certainly be a justified relief for the budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. twenty-five heads of state and government signed the european constitutional treaty. 25 foreign ministers have signed it. it has been ratified by 10 member states. the european parliament adopted the constitutional treaty by a two-thirds majority. the majority of european citizens have already voted in favour of this constitution. i ask you, mr president, to make it clear in a press release that we will not be taken hostage by the anti-eu, disinformation, blame-mongering and demagoguery, and that this constitution strengthens the fundamental rights of citizens, parliament and thus citizens, democracy and transparency. i ask you, mr president, to inform all the heads of state and government that the european parliament is opposed to arbitrary, national-populist decisions and hasty decisions by heads of state - as is the case today with tony blair - because we do not want to interrupt the constitutional process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a technical correction to what mr leichtfried said. i too am against the transport of animals for slaughter alive. but this declaration does not distinguish between animals for slaughter and animals for breeding and production. farmed and farm animals can only be exported alive and are a real economic factor for european farmers. if we sign this declaration as it is on the table, it would affect about 50% of the production of breeding cattle in europe. this would be another serious blow to the farmers of europe in the generally tense situation.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking mrs laperrouze very warmly for her excellent work and, above all, for the spirit of collegiality and the involvement of all the political groups in the report. i think it's a very good report. a report that makes it clear that we need more trans-european energy networks if we are to meet the lisbon objectives of increasing the competitiveness of our continent. it is clear that on the one hand we are talking about intra-european networks, but that does not guarantee that there will be no more problems. on the contrary, it is true that integrated networks can even be the case that a problem is transmitted to other networks; but overall, it does increase security of supply. it is also about increased subcontracting, namely diversified subcontracting of energy, in particular of course oil and natural gas. i would like to make a few comments on this, commissioner, because i have great respect for your commitment. i missed you being present at the commissioning of an important pipeline, namely from baku to tbilisi to ceyhan. the presidents of the countries concerned were present, and the united states secretary of state for energy was also present, but unfortunately not the energy commissioner or any other european commissioner. if such an important pipeline is being built in one of the areas covered by the european union's neighbourhood policy, which concerns a possible member state of the european union, or at least a candidate country, i would have liked to have seen you in that picture, not only because i would like to see you in a picture, but also because it would have been symbolic for the citizens of europe that this european union cares about energy at least as much as the government of the united states of america. i know the u.s. government was behind the pipeline, but we'd have to show our flag. maybe you weren't invited, maybe you couldn't, but maybe you can briefly explain your absence today or at another time. i would like to mention two more points. you are quite right, commissioner, and we are also here to say that there are certain lines of european interest which are being supported accordingly. i also believe that the european coordinator can be important. i would like to support the honourable members and mrs laperrouze in the sense that the european parliament must also be consulted before the appointment is made, although it is of course the commission's task to make the appointment. overall, to sum up again: i believe that energy supplies are important for the competitiveness of our continent, that it is important to have a diversified energy supply, including from outside, and i hope that commissioner piebalgs can be present at the next opening of an important pipeline and demonstrate how important energy supplies are to europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i myself come from a federal state - upper austria - which is certainly the world leader in energy efficiency, and we have always focused on making this energy efficiency as economical as possible, i.e. in accordance with the lisbon criteria. we all know that the cost of savings is currently less than the cost of new production. it is therefore also sensible to focus on energy saving in the area of growth and employment. but in principle we are against compulsory targets. we should focus more on incentives and we should make sure that the previous achievements of the member states are taken into account, for example in my own state, which has far fewer opportunities in this area than others. we should also determine who exactly could achieve what savings with a benchmarking system. the most important thing is that we need a system of best practice. we must learn not only in europe but worldwide. global learning is essential here. i would therefore like to recommend to commissioner piebalgs that we create an energy efficiency prize and that we promote it worldwide so that we can learn about the best models worldwide and then implement them as quickly and efficiently as possible, so that we can also create new jobs and growth in europe from this new area. perhaps an impact analysis could also be made in this area so that we can learn which measures are most effective and fastest. we should also look back ten years and compare the different member states with each other, but also make comparisons at a global level and then also find a basis for negotiation for the next ten years, what objectives we want to implement and, above all, whether we can also include incentives such as the intelligent energy programme.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. although this report refers specifically to the financial year 2003, it is not intended to be a snapshot but rather to analyse irregularities and their causes over a longer period, to understand developments and to learn from them for the future. we are not historians in the committee on budgetary control, but we want to produce documents and adopt reports here in the house which ultimately help to improve the fight against fraud and improve the situation for european taxpayers. i think that this is of particular interest in the run-up to a new financial period, a new financial perspective. i would also like to say this to those of you who are here and who are taxpayers: we must be clear - and i am only taking this as an example - that as long as we have policies such as the payment of export refunds in the agricultural sector, there will be fraud to match. this is nothing but an invitation to fraud, and that is why these policies must be stopped. this should also be taken into account in the next financial perspective. in 2003, we had a slight decrease in the number of irregularities and fraud reported compared with the previous year: 922 million euros compared with 1.15 billion. we're going to end up with about a billion in the long run, which is obviously way too much to be accepted as such. but what we find over the years is that we have a decline in irregularities reported in the agricultural sector, while on the contrary we find an increase in irregularities in the structural funds sector to almost the same extent. this may be due to the fact that the increased controls in the agricultural sector are often at the expense of european small farmers, which must also be mentioned here. on the other hand, it may also be related to the fact that the disbursement rates in the structural funds have increased considerably in recent years. the second issue is recoveries. a truly timeless subject, if you look at the recent report of the european court of auditors. i wonder what the point is in putting more emphasis on fraud prevention when we have to wait for decades for the money that has been misappropriated to be recovered. the alarming extent of recovery in agriculture is confirmed by the special report published by the court of auditors. between 1971 and 2004, €3.1 billion in irregularities in the agricultural sector were reported, of which only about one fifth was recovered. some 70% of the funds wrongly paid have never found their way back to the eu budget. i mean, there's enough to go around. the blame here is clear - and the european parliament must make this clear - to be placed on the member states. it is clear that european money has a different status in the member states than its own money. a final point which is a focus of this european parliament fraud report is the question of combating cigarette smuggling. we are witnessing how we are suffering enormous losses from cigarette smuggling, how the member states are not cooperating with the eu to the extent that this would actually be desirable, how the member states and above all the finance ministers of the member states are still relying on a wrong and dangerous tax policy, by always deciding to increase tobacco taxes when it is a question of filling national tax holes. this is an invitation to organised crime, and we all - the member states and the european budget - are losing out together. it will be up to us as the european union to develop appropriate strategies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 1999, i was elected to this parliament as the leading independent candidate of the austrian social democrats. at the time i thought olaf was good and that the rapporteur, herbert bösch, was good too. the voters and i have had to learn in the meantime that neither is true. olaf is the protective force of the brussels authorities. the commission's proposal was to be submitted to the council for approval. based on the documents, the stern published a report on fraud in brussels. every word of the article was factual. but that was not the point. tillack still hasn't recovered the confiscated documents. it is not uncommon for journalists to work with confidential information from inside the authorities. some of them were used in this report. the colleagues of all the newspapers know this too: the allegation by the whistleblowers that money was paid for confidential documents is almost in good taste. the prosecutors in hamburg, the headquarters of the stern, who were also asked by olaf for help, refused. there was no judge to be found who wanted to hold office. for years, these eu investigators have been increasing their power step by step, and how! the head of olaf, franz-hermann brüner, has no one to stand in his way. this is now the european law. and because brussels always regulates everything thoroughly, the council has also adapted the criminal law accordingly. now even fewer people in europe are safe from franz-hermann brüner! the role played by herbert bösch in this process will have to be revealed at another time. i have quoted everything i have said today from today's issue of the news magazine der spiegel.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to continue, quoting from the mirror: 'franz-hermann brüner has no one to stand in his way. its authority as stated in the commission's decision establishing it exercises its powers of inquiry with complete independence and may not seek or take instructions from the commission, any government, any other institution, body, office or agency. to a german prosecutor, this must seem like paradise, because he is bound by instructions from the ministry of justice. this is a tradition which is taken for granted in many european countries. this brings us to a very big problem. if you are for europe, you cannot be for this olaf, if you are for europe, you cannot be for this eu, especially if it uses an instrument such as olaf, where the tried and tested principles of the rule of law are being massively disregarded, especially the right to be heard and to be informed, if a procedure is in progress. please, commissioner kallas, take over the case.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking the commission for its proposal and the rapporteur for her constructive report, which has improved this commission proposal in some essential respects. the fundamental objective of the creation of interoperable spatial data throughout europe is to be welcomed. the environment itself is proving to us every day that it knows no national boundaries and that negative and positive effects do not stop at the barrier. however, the collection and use of data must be practical. the rapporteur's proposals have created clearer wording and rules which substantially improve the proposal. the commission has also proposed that everyone in the community should have free access to the environmental data in question - a huge step towards a citizen-friendly europe. the required data consistency makes this feasible. it must also be clear that if data is not only viewed but also used economically, this should be subject to a cost; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the data. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i also think it is important that the rapporteur should make the proposal clear and transparent. the comitology procedure requested by the commission should therefore be used only exceptionally. the citizens have a right to know exactly how and where decisions were taken and, above all, what the reasons for them were. in conclusion, i can say that the rapporteur has succeeded in introducing more citizen-friendliness, transparency, subsidiarity and practicality into the commission's proposal through her proposal.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not many thanks to peter skinner for his work, especially from the point of view of the person responsible for solvency 1 at the time. the logical consequence is, of course, that i am glad that this report is now available. reinsurance companies are among the last financial services companies not yet to have a european passport. the proposed directive is intended to ensure a level playing field for reinsurance undertakings in the eu, while not preventing reinsurance undertakings from taking over reinsurance risks. the european passport of an eu-domiciled reinsurer removes the previous authorisation of a reinsurance undertaking, i.e. a reinsurance undertaking authorised and supervised in its home country but covering risks from a host country insurance undertaking, which is at the discretion of the host country supervisor. in order to ensure that this mutual recognition system can operate without prejudice to the primary insurers in a host country and on a level playing field in the union, the transposition of the directive into national law needs to be harmonised in a similar way to that for banks and national supervisors need to cooperate in their supervisory practices. in one of my amendments i therefore logically called for their increased cooperation within the committee of european insurance and occupational pensions supervisors. the reinsurance industry is globally networked for the same reason, because otherwise it would be impossible to cover large losses and catastrophe risks in a sufficiently distributed manner. european reinsurance companies are in competition with north american and australian competitors in particular. the recent american international group scandal in the united states in particular has brought to light the deep-seated control and disclosure deficiencies in the relationship between primary and reinsurance. i therefore called in one of my motions for resolutions for the european commission and national insurance supervisors to work more closely together on the extension of standards on corporate governance and internal control procedures within the framework of the international association of insurance supervisors. in an effort to reach consensus with the council as quickly as possible, only one subparagraph was adopted by the lead economic and monetary affairs committee in addition to the decision taken by the relevant council working party. all the amendments are victims of the accelerated procedure. it is only by this that i can explain why my request for clarification as to which government bonds may be included as cover for the technical reserves of a reinsurance undertaking was not accepted in the version before the house. the reinsurance directive is thus the only financial services directive which does not differentiate the risk weight between all government bonds, and does not differentiate them according to the rating of the government or according to the membership of the issuer of the bonds in the eu or oecd. a little more would have done a lot more.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the commission, all the members of the committee, all the political groups and, above all, the council, the secretariat and all the staff and collaborators for this joint work. it was nice working on this report together. more than half the population of the european union lives in rural areas, which cover about 90% of the territory. we are all concerned to make the regions, with their villages and towns, active and attractive and to preserve them, and thus to give the countryside a bright future. i am very pleased that you have arrived, madam commissioner, and that a flourishing and, above all, productive agriculture and forestry is the most important basic condition. the 2003 cap reform has introduced sustainable changes in european agriculture and forestry. in the course of this reform, rural development has become even more important. this report covers the 2007-2013 programming period for rural development. it was particularly important to me to keep to the timetable for the vote here in the plenary so that the council and the commission would also have a dossier at their disposal during the luxembourg presidency. because farmers need planning certainty. this is the first major agricultural programming in the eu-25. rural development is important for all member states, especially for the new ones. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for rural development (2007 to 2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for rural development (2007 to 2013) (com (2007) 017). i would like to remind you: in total we had 342 amendments from the committee on agriculture and rural development, 75 from the committee on regional development and one from the committee on budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. because we need this cooperation across all professional boundaries and the willingness to cooperate in rural areas. the commission proposal has many positive aspects: the unification of financing by creating a single fund, simplification for easier traceability and many other things. the approach to the structure of the three thematic axes and the approach to leader are also included. in our discussions in the committee on agriculture we have found three major compromises: the first is the weighting of the axes, the second is leader and the third is cofinancing as proposed by the commission. we have found that in order to maintain subsidiarity, it is important to lower the axes of funding, namely 10, 20 and 8. in leader we see a minimum of 7% but we want the leader reserve to be abolished. it is also important that an important political signal be sent from parliament to the council and the commission if this is decided by a majority. i have always been concerned that this report should cover both the northern and southern regions, both the western and eastern regions. this report also clearly acknowledges that modulation will free up funds to be used mainly for axis 1 and 2 as part of the cap reform. one essential approach is - and i agree with you, commissioner - the promotion of our young farmers. it is about our future generations, and i hope you can follow the parliament's approach of €55,000 per farm. what is needed is more competitiveness. this is why we have adopted the approach of extending the scope of the programme to smes, to small and mediumsized enterprises and, in the forestry sector, to micro and small enterprises. the commissioner, mr president, has already said that it is not possible to define the areas in question in a way that would be acceptable to the european parliament. there's a lot more. we are also asking for more money because we have just committed ourselves to natura 2000, but this can only work with more money in rural development. the rural development programme cannot replace the other programmes, the structural funds, etc. we can only be there for the rural areas if we all work together. productive agriculture and forestry are essential for an active and attractive rural area. rural policy is policy for the whole population in all regions of europe, thus ensuring their chances of survival. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i can accept amendments nos 130 and 131, but unfortunately not amendment no 132.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you very much for your comments. i think what you said also showed that we have moved very far apart on the essential issues that are important to all of us. i particularly welcome your comments on the lessfavoured areas, small and mediumsized enterprises and young farmers. if modulation has to be applied to all the axes, it is nevertheless necessary to see exactly how high the axes are doted. in this context, i would like to thank you and your staff once again for your support.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not with seven reports, this parliament is now trying to find a common position on terrorism and to organise the fight against it. the task we are facing is enormous. i 'll name them once: the task is to win a battle against an adversary who abolishes all humanity, breaks every rule and every law, despises every boundary, knows no moderation and blindly pursues the criminal intention of abolishing human freedom. the fight is to win it without losing our temper, without losing our humanity, without betraying our laws, without endangering the freedom of man in his own inner space. that is the task, and it is extremely difficult. even in war, common rules have been developed over centuries, and here we are in battle against an enemy from the dark, untouchable and without any boundaries. this requires great determination and a joint approach. but it also requires the recognition that we cannot allow the word terrorism to dull our inner sensitivity and to give a general mandate for any kind of struggle. the rapporteur, mr alvaro, has raised this point. it is particularly important for me to point out that i do not think that fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law are sufficiently protected here. something, however, is bringing us to a new situation. the whole of this gonzález report is based on the assumption that the european constitution will come into force. it lays the foundations with the charter of fundamental rights, the co-decision of parliament, publicity, legislation, the solidarity clause, the informational self-determination of the individual, parliamentary and judicial control, the dismantling of the pillar structure in favour of a community europe. this is not a wish or a dream that may be shattered before our eyes, but an absolute, indispensable and indispensable condition for this package of measures, for its legitimacy and for the respect of fundamental rights! without this condition, without the european constitution, we cannot agree to this catalogue of measures, we cannot see the balance of the area of law, security and freedom being maintained. if we add that the question of converting europol into an agency, that the question of transferring the coordinator for counter-terrorism to the commission is no more than our demand - no commitment, no clarification - then there is a danger that we will lose the balance and that we will endanger the freedom of citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. according to one study, governments spent over $191 billion in 2005 on the fight against terrorism. the expenditure is expected to multiply over the next ten years. 44% of this is used by the us for military and police measures, among other things. the success of the current control strategy is rather doubtful. the most prominent example of this dubious success is iraq, which has become a hotbed of terrorism through war. so far, we've been focusing on treating the symptoms rather than tackling the root of the problem. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we must start here and go in a new direction with new ways of thinking.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not first of all, i would ask you to invite the council and the commission, mr schmit and mr barroso, to hold the trilogue with us in the european parliament. the directly elected representatives of the european people should certainly take the lead here, and these negotiations should be conducted in the interests of the people. secondly, i would like to emphasize that the commission and the council have set themselves an objective, namely the lisbon strategy. it is about growth and jobs. growth means that we have higher net incomes for students, for workers, for pensioners, for everyone. growth means higher net income at the end of a month. how can we do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is why the barroso commission is a very social commission. the european parliament is supporting the barroso commission 100 per cent in these social matters. i am therefore curious to see whether the council will be willing and have the courage to increase the use of the funds for the lisbon strategy, whether it will not only double the research budget, but that it will do something to make this strategy more serious, that it will make efforts in the cip programme to provide additional funds, just as in telecommunications, infrastructure and in the areas that ensure that at the end of the month a higher net income is in the accounts of the citizens. we should also make sure we save money. i thank the council for setting a new standard in the european union with the statute for members of the european parliament. we should also look at the fact that we are ultimately guiding the average civil servant's salary along the basic salary of the european parliamentarians. the council, parliament and, ultimately, the members of the european parliament should also agree on this. there should not be too great a disparity. yes, but with a clear objective.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on constitutional affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on constitutional affairs, which is responsible for the constitution, has pointed out what is now obvious to all, namely that direct communication and information between the european union and its citizens is a disaster. in this disaster and in this black hole of communication, the european constitution is currently in danger of disappearing. the committee on constitutional affairs has pointed out that it is necessary and indispensable for european democracy to develop in europe an area of language and political publicity across borders. we have seen with great regret that one of the first acts of the commission was to cut the information resources for the constitution. if it wasn't so bizarre, you'd have to cry about it. the committee and the rapporteur have accepted the committee's request, but without the resources. it is not, however, sensible to put priorities before the citizens and not provide the money for them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to reiterate that in the era of globalisation, which is turning into a european trap rather than a european dream, it is not appropriate to increase funding. we'll get by with this one percent solution. the possibilities for budgetary efficiency are far from exhausted and it would be desirable to have as many administrative areas as possible evaluated step by step by independent international consultancies in terms of efficiency and economy and to identify potential for optimisation. that is my amendment no 357. the rapporteur was against it, the report does not contain it, nor will it allow it. you should not be surprised that the majority of the population outside say no to this eu, no to this waste, even if they say yes to europe, as i do.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i shall put aside the thoughts i have prepared for today because i want to deal with some of the comments and work out the main points again. the commission has made a proposal. parliament's boog report and tomorrow's decision show that we are capable of acting and negotiating. the council is not in a position to act or negotiate on this issue at the moment because it has not yet reached an agreement in the council to negotiate. our proposal is a compromise. i would ask the heads of state or government and the finance ministers to look at our proposal and see whether it does not offer the possibility of an agreement in the council without weakening the european union. the council's proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is to reduce the eu's competitiveness by 40%, to reduce it by 10% for cohesion, growth and employment, to reduce it by 6% for rural development and agriculture, to reduce it by 50% for internal policies, and to reduce it by 40% for the european union as a global partner. the council may reach an agreement with you, but not with us, and for a second reason: because you are cutting back! if we stick to the status quo and do not set new priorities, we will need 890 billion euros. the commission's proposal is for 871 billion euros. if we do not agree, we will have 931 billion euros. their budget is less than the status quo. their budget is less than we have for a non-unification. so you must understand that our offer is a negotiated offer. we will not negotiate under 931 billion euros!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have noticed that in the european commission's job advertisements, the question of mother tongue is often asked. equal opportunities in europe should be based on the fact that one does not have to have a language as a mother tongue, but that an appropriate level of mastery is necessary. it is worth considering whether current practice cannot be changed in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was in the parliament in australia recently. there are already biometric data for access to parliament and thus a very good opportunity to carry out efficient checks. do you think that we could, as a pilot project, introduce this biometric data to the european institutions to see if this project can actually be implemented?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that this debate simply shows that we have a long way to go if we are to achieve a real single market for all aspects of our lives. on the one hand we have to liberalize, simplify, harmonize or develop minimum standards, on the other hand there is of course also a need to introduce protective mechanisms, particularly in the context of health. we are in the process of implementing both step by step. i am talking about the internal market, and any effort to strengthen the internal market is in the interests of growth and employment and for the consumer. the second point - we heard it clearly in the debate - is that we are not in the co-decision procedure. the european parliament must be involved in the codecision procedure on every issue, including tax policy, and if we want to achieve a single market we must deal more with tax policy within the european union. i'm up for the tax competition. but every competition has its limits. there can also be serious distortions of competition if the bandwidth is too large. but we also need to act on tax policy. thirdly, as chairman of the intergroup on small and mediumsized enterprises, i welcome the fact that the present proposal brings more clarity to the citizen and, as the commissioner has said, more clarity and ease to smes and thus to traders, by simplifying the procedures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we must make it very clear to the european citizen today that every single point in the excellent bowi report calls for a european initiative, but that this is not the same as over-regulation, which is also a reproach. every single point that is being asked and proposed here, if implemented, would add value to the european citizen's membership of the european union. i would therefore say that social and health policy is the most challenged, alongside growth and employment policy, by the demographic challenges, on the one hand in the light of the explosion in costs in this area, but also because of the implementation of our four freedoms and the growing internal market and the mobility of citizens. we all want european citizenship. the european citizen has fundamental rights; the european union has a number of fundamental rights, including medical care and emergency assistance. and these cannot be confined to one's own nation. we are a community of solidarity and we have to be there for each other, especially when we need each other. i therefore strongly support the proposals to include patient mobility in a separate commission proposal. i am very much in favour of patient mobility not being covered by the services directive and of social and health services being regulated separately in general and not being dealt with in a wash in the services directive. it is not just about the product, but about quality, about clear definitions, about a legal framework and about making it clear who pays what and who gets what. i think this report comes at the right time because we are discussing these issues at so many levels. we should make it the starting point for a broad health and social debate and a debate on how we can better coordinate national responsibilities with european responsibilities.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i'd like you to take some sad news to your colleagues at the european summit. the scapegoat has done his duty, but he's miserable. he collapsed, he was handed over to the wrath of the people, and they beat him a little too much. what i am talking about is europe on the one hand and governments on the other. it is not the first time, but the tenth time that you have given europe to the wrath of the people for things for which you are responsible. i know that the battle over the interpretation of the 'no' has already begun, and whoever wins will determine the course of events and the way out of the crisis. is it the victory of nationalism over europe? is it the people's dissatisfaction with our achievements or is it - and i believe this is the case - a people's revolt against the existing europe? the farce is that the revolt against the existing europe makes the new europe impossible. the patient shot the doctor out of anger at the disease, but you will understand, mr president-in-office, that i am a little nervous when i see that governments are once again gathering around the bed of europe's sickness. what is the europe that exists, which receives a receipt from the citizens? it is a dictatorship of the cold-blooded brussels bureaucracy. is it really the crack of a new superstate that feeds off the national identity of its citizens? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. is it not the europe of governments which have imagined in their arrogance of power that they could govern europe on a part-time basis? in addition to being a government official, he was also a member of the administration, a legislator and a constitutional officer. is this not the europe we must clean up? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. is it not because governments have already blocked the convention after trying to dominate it? the social question has not failed there? (the president cut the speaker off) (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question is always: national populism or european social responsibility and solidarity? i therefore want to put the council under the motto 'reversing rather than reversing'. i ask you to draw up a code of conduct for all those who are in the executive and legislative branches of the european union so that blame and double standards are eliminated. the same must be said in brussels as at home. you have to share responsibility, not blame. we must inform, not ignore, the questions and fears of the citizens. i expect you to launch a period of reflection, which will be limited in time, alongside the drafting of this code of conduct, and to draw up an information and communication strategy which will open a democratic debate with citizens so that the ratification process can then proceed successfully. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are a lot of people in europe who are unhappy. they feel overburdened by too many laws and insecure in key areas: the labour market, the various social security systems and the sense of subjective security. people react where they can and how they can. they say no to the political establishment in elections and they say no to referendums on the european constitution. the political situation requires calm and restraint. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not the problem, but rather the approach to a better solution of our problems in europe and with europe. the european policy should therefore make the effort to consider how we are going to deal with this situation. i agree with those who want to suspend the ratification process for the constitution for a certain period of time. it could stop the negative domino effect. but then the decision-making process should be resumed, perhaps even in the form of a coordinated decision on the constitution. i would like to see a week for europe next july.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it 's about two things: on the one hand, it is about the united states and europe using the wealth they have created to help the poorest in the world to achieve similar prosperity. i believe that the british presidency in particular has a lot of work to do in the near future, and that we can help with that, even if we have different views on one or another point. it is also about not only taking pride in the democracy and freedom we have developed in our countries, but also offering these tools of development to others. i say this not to impose but to offer, as we have done in europe itself, in eastern europe and in the balkans. i also say this because i hear that there is a large group of macedonian visitors and we certainly want to do the same in the middle east. the middle east is a very precarious and important region for us. we americans and europeans agree that democracy and development - and above all free development - in these countries are necessary for all citizens and peace-making. this is why cooperation between europe and the united states is particularly important. but i say again: the concept must be that the people in their countries develop this freedom and democracy themselves and do not feel that it is being forced upon them. it is also important that we prevent together - for example in iran - the emergence of new threats and risks. but here too i am clearly in favour of the negotiating process and not the threat. i hope that we can achieve success together in the negotiations.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, our responsible man in the committee on budgetary control, for this initiative. as the commissioner has already said, in a report which was adopted yesterday in this house, we have dealt mainly with cigarette smuggling. this is one of the very big problems we have in the european union at the moment. this is also because the finance ministers - when they have no more money - are falling for the glorious idea of raising the tobacco tax in particular. at the same time, they end up with less money in their pockets than before, because suddenly illegal cigarettes are coming into the country. this is a red carpet which the member states - and i must say that they are doing so now - are spreading to organized crime. we have, as i have already said, an agreement initiated by the commission and olaf. this is a great thing; but as the rapporteur has said, it has an achilles' heel: we have not specified in the agreement what is to be done with the money. if such agreements are concluded in the future, it is necessary to define - and this is a request from this parliament - what the distribution key should look like. i would also be very much in favour, mr president-in-office, of the council also discussing what is to be done with this money. it is not just up to each member state to do so. we have too many staff shortages in the customs sector. we have too many gaps in the computerization of our customs services. it is also the duty of your institution to think about it. we expect that this money will actually be spent on the intended purpose. i thank our rapporteur, mr staes, for this initiative.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to begin by thanking those present for the good cooperation which has been established over the last few years and in the preparation of the reports we are discussing today. i would like to divide my remarks into two parts: i shall speak briefly about the stability and growth pact and then turn to the two regulations. the treatment of many representatives in public life with regard to the stability and growth pact, which is enshrined in the treaty and was signed in amsterdam in 1997, is a clear example for me of the double standards of some politicians and the double game: domestic policy here, brussels there. unfortunately, in the past it has sometimes had to make national-populist statements instead of the necessary solidarity in the exercise of responsibility in the european union. the stability and growth pact is not a burdensome duty or a task for the european union, but a mandatory framework for coordinating national fiscal policies within the framework of monetary union, where monetary policy is centralised but fiscal policy is carried out at national level. but one thing is certain: the incentive structures for fiscal policy have changed with monetary union. previously, the financial markets' penalties were clearer and stronger. for example, when italy has had an unsound fiscal policy, interest rates on the financial markets have risen immediately because of the expectation of devaluation. now, governments don't always see what the financial markets think of bad fiscal policy. the repeatedly criticised penalties and sanctions at the end of a long process are therefore useful, since the financial markets no longer have their former power. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. coordination is therefore necessary to ease the overall burden on monetary policy and to ensure lower interest rates. i am convinced that there must be a framework for budgetary policy in the member states of monetary union, also in order to prevent over-indebtedness and to ensure the stability of the currency. i think that the stability pact has a design flaw which will remain and which unfortunately we cannot change because it is in the treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has led to a loss of confidence and credibility, and in some cases it has also been a sign of lack of solidarity. nevertheless, the euro is a success! the stability and growth pact is a success, because without it we would not have those debates on the causes of deficits and the objectives of fiscal policy, and it is also the basis of the debate today and the basis of the necessary reforms and adjustments that are being carried out. i think it's good that we have this framework because it allows us to talk more about deficits, the cause of deficits and the effects of deficits in the public. and citizens have more confidence in the euro than in any other political project of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the stability pact, which is to be adopted by the council on 22 and 23 march. the majority of the committee and i as rapporteur have taken note of the council's findings; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products is a very good one. we want more clarity and a better definition. we are dealing with a different competence in these two regulations. the cooperation procedure applies to regulation 1466/97, which concerns the preventive aspects, and we are consulting the commission and the council on regulation 1467/97 on the excessive deficit procedure. i would like to begin by referring to the regulation on preventive aspects. the committee on budgets has made two main demands. on the one hand, this is an improvement in the quality of statistics. we all know the example of greece, but there is not just one example. we believe that the quality of statistics must be ensured at national and community level in order to guarantee the independence, integrity and accountability of both the national statistical offices and eurostat. we also call on the commission not only to adopt the statistics but to establish a dialogue with the people and institutions in the member states to examine the situation. we want closer cooperation with the european central bank, because it is impossible that two different statistics should not be checked comparatively and that a possible contradiction should already lead to questions from the commission to the member state. this cooperation, these comparisons, this interpretation, and the questions of cooperation between the european central bank and the commission in the evaluation and comparison of statistics are important to us. secondly, we want the medium-term budgetary objectives to be reviewed not on a regular basis but at least annually and to take account of the public debt ratio. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the special circumstances of the member states. we want to see the creation of minimum european standards for budgetary planning. the commission should specify the parameters, including for more uniform growth forecasts in the member states. we are asking for the maximum period for the criteria to be met to be limited to three years from the date on which the deficit occurs. we also believe that there must be a specified list of relevant factors to be taken into account in the deficit procedure. we accept the proposal as it stands. we want to make it more concrete, more predictable and more credible, and to reduce the margin of manoeuvre for interpretation so that compliance can be more easily guaranteed, and with these two regulations we want to give the pact more credibility, to regain confidence in it and thus also to respond to the uncertainties of the population about the seriousness of european decisions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking you for this refreshing acknowledgement in the competition policy and industrial policy debate of the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises for jobs and competitiveness in the european union. this commitment in today's debate also shows that any attempt to play industrial policy against sme policy is wrong, harmful and contrary to reality. we need industrial policy flagships to be competitive in the world, and we need clusters between smes and industrial policy flagships to provide the impetus for the competitiveness of smes from industrial policy competitiveness. i agree with you when you say no to more regulation. but at the same time we must say no to the tendencies towards more nationalisation, no to the tendencies towards anti-performance, no to the tendencies towards discouragement, no to populism, no to innovation, no to anti-industrialisation and yes to more performance, yes to the internal market, yes to the four freedoms. enlargement is strengthening the internal market. the single market strengthens competitiveness. that is what the services directive is all about. but this also means greater commitment to tax policy. this means a stronger commitment to the financial perspective for research, education, growth and employment, and for business start-ups. this means, of course, that we must promote the best so that we can be there for the weak. the average must be driven out of europe. the new kind of nationalisation in thought must be driven out of our politics. the blame-sharing between the state and europe must be removed to make this competitiveness, this innovation, this research, this will to achieve more through performance possible. i hope that today's debate and the announcements made will be followed by action, because that is the only way we can achieve a new dynamism in the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the debate on the community patent is certainly not unimportant for the european economy. however, one effect should not be underestimated: as long as patents are as expensive as they are now, much of the necessary protection cannot be achieved, and patents may actually block innovation rather than encourage it. but if we see, on the other hand, that the need for diversity and the fostering of diversity is deeply rooted in the decision-making processes, but also in the minds of europeans, we will find it difficult to simply jump over this hurdle. i therefore believe that we in parliament must pay particular attention to the problem of small and mediumsized enterprises. i have heard too little from you on this subject, commissioner. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have an untenable situation at the moment. the same applies, of course, to the question of copyright. i would point out that the current approach is no longer adequate in relation to the protection of intellectual property, especially in the field of art - performing art, music, etc. - on the internet, and in view of all the changes that have taken place. people also say: you can't criminalize an entire generation that simply downloads everything from the internet, but doesn't have the sense of injustice. it is also our duty to draw a strict line on software patenting, because the unclear relationship between the european patent convention and national jurisdictions has created a situation which is particularly problematic for small and mediumsized enterprises.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if large sections of the european public have problems with mass immigration, this is not a sign of xenophobia but a proof of the lack of integration of these immigrants. looking at the facts, it is clear why. let us consider that at least 3.5 million muslims currently live in germany, some for 40 years, and still barely speak german. consider, too, that it is estimated that in a few decades, half of all french people and possibly in german cities, such as stuttgart, a third of the population will be of the muslim faith. or consider that in some regions of italy, illegal immigrants are responsible for a third or even half of all crime. let us consider that in spain, with over a million muslims, there is even a demand that the cathedral of cordoba be used as a mosque again. all of this is evidence that the integration of immigrants is very badly done. it is essential that they not only learn the language of the countries to which they are migrating but also acquire the culture and history of their new home. if this is not done, the identity of the european states will be in very bad shape in a few decades.
in writing. due to high unemployment and low wages, citizens' discontent has once again taken the form of protests this time in uzbekistan. a soft revolution like the one in georgia or ukraine is unlikely, as there is no adequately organized opposition elite. this is a situation which islamists are certainly trying to exploit and will seek to lead further popular uprisings or to achieve their goal by means of terrorist attacks. as a result, a civil war is threatening, which will only intensify if the rumors of an alleged serious illness of president karimov prove to be true. in view of the spread of islamist terrorist activities worldwide, it is essential to counteract this development and to seek a peaceful solution as far as possible. the bloody suppression of the uprising and the failure to provide an objective explanation of the situation are therefore fraught with the danger that popular discontent could lead to an ever-increasing spiral of violence. the $600 million oil contract with china that followed the events is certainly the wrong signal. we should suspend our 16 million euro trade agreement to persuade the uzbek government to do so. this is the only way to deal with this crisis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 132 of the rules of procedure, as announced. i would ask you to withdraw the debate on the statute from the agenda or not to allow it. the vote on tomorrow's agenda is not even scheduled. there has already been an illegal vote in the legal affairs committee, and it would be the wrong signal to adopt a membership statute and then to add new privileges in the background, now that the eu is in its deepest crisis. (background noise) that is not the way to deal with a democratic representation of the people. (applause from the centre) i therefore ask you to make use of article 132 (2) and to take appropriate measures so that the british prime minister, mr blair, can really speak about an austerity programme and not be immediately disapproved of by a new package of privileges which will then be voted on by the members of parliament.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr schmit! i don't know if you can still hold all the flowers that this house is sending you today. i join in all the thanks and i would like to add a toast to the courage of this presidency of the council, the luxembourg government, to hold the referendum and to continue the ratification process. perhaps, mr schmit, one day there will be only one founding state of a politically united europe - the small country of luxembourg - as a result of this decision, and not six. perhaps this decision means the victory of the idea of a politically united europe over the vulgar idea of a common market, the victory of the idea of uniting people over the mere claim of uniting markets, market forces and resources. today and tomorrow, two europeans are meeting in this chamber. the president of the council has spoken as a thoughtful and admonishing advocate of the idea of political europe. tomorrow we shall hear the loud propaganda of the europe of nationalism and the chancellor's office, which will also introduce the rumsfeld formula, which divides europe into a new and an old europe, and thus brings it back to the 19th century, to a europe of balances, of power struggles, of competition, of nationalist egoism and of hegemonic politics. this is not our europe! i hope that the referenda will not be understood in such a way, that they will not be turned upside down, that their outcome will be directed against the citizens, but that they will be used in their interests for the progress of europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the record of an eu presidency seems to be the main reason for the top of the union's political establishment to shower each other with flowers. but that is not going to help europe in the face of the double crisis it is facing. it is a double crisis because, on the one hand, the referendums in france and the netherlands have shown that the citizens seem to reject the current path of the union massively. this is also true of all the domestic motives that have been given. on the other hand, the failure of the summit has shown that there is no will to find a common path even at the level of the council of heads of government. this rejection by the citizens on the one hand, and domestic tactics and national egoism at the council level on the other, show that the eu is in a crisis that is not easy to get rid of. but this crisis should also be an opportunity for a reversal, for a reorientation of the european path. we must not allow ourselves to be dragged into a union of the selfishness of bureaucrats, lobbyists and technocrats who are alienated from the citizenry. towards a europe of self-determined peoples and of competent citizens! that should be the chance to turn around.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive. i am in favour of proactive intervention rather than a backward turn. we are glad that europe can once again breathe with two lungs. in the council some seem to be playing the card 'old versus new', 'past versus future'. the european parliament shall adopt the treaty establishing a constitution by a two-thirds majority. some heads of government cannot achieve a majority for more democracy, civil rights and transparency in their own country. the european parliament adopts the financial perspective because we want to make the european union more capable of action, more efficient and more economical. the council is full of heads of government who ignore their own decisions, ignore the treaties, undermine the common objective of developing the european union into a political union, do not respect institutional rules, and are self-sufficient. i have the impression that for too many people, nationalism replaces community responsibility, that blame dominates over co-responsibility and selfishness over solidarity. if we want to win back the citizens' confidence in the success of the european union, we must not deceive them, we must not sell them as stupid, we must not ignore their concerns and fears, but we must go to them, tell them what is important, implement decisions and respect contracts. if we want to put an end to the double standard behind closed doors, we must say yes to the parliamentarisation of decision-making processes, and yes to the constitutional treaty. if we want to replace egoism with solidarity, we must advocate a social market economy. if we want to put an end to the hostage-taking of the majority by the minority, we must want to strengthen the europe of the citizens and its parliaments. i am coming more and more to the conclusion that all those who really want to pursue political union seriously and strengthen the continent in the world must think, conceive and implement the federal state, the united states of europe, with commitment.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i must confess that a few weeks ago i no longer believed that we would ever come as close to deciding on our members' statute as we have come today. the luxembourg presidency is to be thanked in particular for this unexpected turn of events. i would imagine, however, that this presidency would have been more successful and more important in other areas. i would also like to thank you, mr president, for your commitment to this matter and also the chairman of our legal affairs committee. i would like to pay tribute to our former colleague and rapporteur, willy rothley, for his efforts to achieve this statute. the council president, mr schmit, has already referred to its role. i hope i can also act in his spirit by recalling three fundamental aspects which have always led us to advocate a common statute. it is absolutely inappropriate and unworthy, at the latest since the introduction of direct elections to the european parliament in 1979 and the gradual improvement of its rights and powers as a co-legislator of the union and as a budgetary authority, that the rights of its members should be subject to national law and that we should be on the same page as national parliaments. as you know, this has also meant that we members of this joint parliament are now subject to 25 different national regulations, which is a mockery of the principle of the equality of all members of this house. the internal arrangements - such as the improvement of low basic wages - have been criticised, and not without reason. all of these are at least three good reasons why any statute for members is better than none. but what we have now, after a long back and forth between the council and parliament, is certainly more. it is a balanced and acceptable proposal which solves the problems raised above. it is also acceptable that we are only approaching the single system with long transitional periods. i would like to see some of the arrangements changed, as many others have, for example, a higher gross salary and a personal contribution to the pension. but it is obvious that now is neither the place nor the opportunity to introduce many different and contradictory individual variants. if we want a statute, there is only one, and that is why my group will vote for the statute tomorrow. the problem for us is also in recital 12, which we have already voted against in the legal affairs committee. we have asked for a separate vote and my group will vote against this recital 12. we do not want the statute to fail at the last moment because of this current problem, which is not even of legal importance. we also have a problem with the amendment adopted in the legal affairs committee to article 23, which allows the european parliament, as a european institution, to make payments not only in euros but also in the currencies of non-euro countries. i think it would be inappropriate for a house such as the european parliament not to make payments in euros. it would also involve a great deal of administrative problems for this house. we shall therefore also oppose this amendment, which was not originally intended. i would like to thank once again all those who have contributed to this debate. i would also like to point out that we want to add a few amendments to the resolution which is to be adopted tomorrow. this applies in particular to the desire to have an assistant status. it is only fair and appropriate that we members of this house finally get a common regulation which also puts the legal situation of our employees on a new footing. it is not a fixed sum, but we should do everything in this house to ensure that our employees are also provided with fair arrangements. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is undoubtedly a historic moment in the history of this house. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have a prediction: what you, ladies and gentlemen, in your overwhelming majority, will finally put in motion today and tomorrow will go down in history as the decisive nail in the coffin of the european union. it is precisely this remoteness of popular representation which leads so many to view the real problems facing europe from the helicopter's point of view, whether it be food privileges or other issues. six years ago i came here as a staunch supporter of the european union, as the leading candidate of the party which now presides over this house, represented by the president, and is leading the way. i believed that we could escape the trap of globalisation and achieve the european dream. instead, i have had to witness in these six years how step by step, mistake by mistake, package of privileges by package of privileges, the fall of europe is being prepared. this is tragic! i am still convinced that it is possible to achieve genuine, serious democracy at european level, but not in this way, of course! the blindness of the house, which is the majority's constant reproach, is an insult to the blind. my grandfather was blind, but very sensitive. he felt and noticed a lot. most of you here, unfortunately, are not. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to us in the present. this is not it, though. this is a privileged estate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make a further comment on the promotion of live cattle transport, following on from my last speech at the strasbourg plenary. the export refunds for live cattle are and will remain a scandal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it's also up to us. we can also make some changes here, and i would point out that often it is enough to change the costs in certain areas to minimize or eliminate various practices. i would ask you to take this into account in the discussion on the road-cost directive. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. i would also like to ask the commission and the council of ministers to initiate a reform of this system, on the one hand to put an end to animal suffering and on the other hand to support small and mediumsized farms.
mr president, commissioner reding, ladies and gentlemen, and my dear colleague paasilinna! we are talking today not only about the future of europe but also about the future of the international information society. europe can be a model for the rest of the world. the information society plays a key role in the lisbon strategy, which is about growth and jobs. we have to make sure that people understand that growth is really just how much money you have in your bank account at the end of the month. on the employment front, the more people who are in employment, the more social benefits we can provide - for pensions, for students, for universities. the digital divide is a key factor here. for example, family farms in developing countries lack basic equipment not only in hardware and software but also in training. we must concentrate on giving vocational training a major role on the internet, whereby cultural and linguistic diversity - as here in the european parliament with twenty languages - on the internet of course opens up other possibilities to support growth and employment worldwide, and this must be the main objective. health must not be forgotten. health will play a major role in social costs in the future. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of health care, such as internet health, prevention and the knowledge of the links between the various types of care. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european research and development centre, the establishment of a european research and development centre, and the establishment of a european research and development centre. i would ask you, commissioner, to put this in the centre of the debate in tunis. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in his speech this morning, president juncker said that he had written two principles into the register of his colleagues at the summit last week. first, he said, "review your own decisions and make sure they are implemented". secondly, he said: 'keep to the institutional rules!' it is sad that we have to recall such self-evident rules of conduct in a community and appeal to those in authority to respect them. unfortunately, too many heads of state and government have fallen deaf to this appeal. but these principles of efficient, trust-building, professional politics have also been ignored by eurozone finance ministers for years. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2007-13. we have had a similar experience in dealing with the two commission proposals for regulations on the stability and growth pact. the commission called on the finance ministers to take up the proposals of the european parliament. the president of the council appealed to his colleagues not to ignore the european parliament's proposals. the european parliament's plenary session last week decided by a majority to accept my two reports on the two commission regulations. the council has not adopted any of our new amendments, despite the substantive agreement of the majority of the finance ministers, the commission and the president of the council. the majority of the national delegations would have been willing to accept certain changes, particularly as regards the development and monitoring of the overall debt position. few but influential countries have prevented this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not an institutional question, it is a question of substance. the commission's statement on the ecofin council decision states that the commission believes that the inclusion of some of parliament's amendments, in particular those concerning the monitoring of the overall debt position, would have further strengthened the proposed regulation. so parliament is on the right track. we therefore tabled the motions adopted at first reading following a decision by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, because we are convinced of their content and because we want the institutional rights and the content of the convictions to be taken into account by our other institutions. what do we want? we want to compare the figures sent to the ecb with the data sent to eurostat by the member states. the council says it has done so. i wonder how it is that the disparate reporting of the figures in greece has not been noticed? secondly, we want a review of the medium-term budgetary objectives. the periodic review was replaced by the council with 'at least every four years'. we want to monitor the public debt ratio. the council decided to do so in march but did not incorporate it in the regulation. we want an annual presentation of the stability programmes for a period of two years. this was rejected. i have the impression that this is not a dispute over the substance, but that they simply did not want to accept the european parliament's proposal. this is not a trust-building behavior. it is objectively unjustified and institutionally unjust. i therefore ask this house to vote tomorrow on the second reading as we did on the first reading.
mr president, mr prime minister tony blair, i would like to thank you for your work. you're going to have a heavy inheritance. we had prime minister juncker in this house yesterday, we appreciated his emotionality, his commitment to the european cause and we applauded him greatly. you brought the other half of the truth today, and i can understand a lot of that. and if many colleagues would dismantle the prejudices which have been built up over the last few years, they would agree with a great deal of what has been said here today. but we need your full commitment to europe, both your own and that of your country. it is not easy with the british press and public, but what we need is an opt-in and not an opt-out, and i hope you are a council president who represents that opt-in. let me make a few points: first, there is unemployment. they've been enormously successful here in britain. if you look at it objectively, you have to admit that. they have gone from very high unemployment during the thatcher era to very low unemployment, one of the lowest in europe. we need that. but we also need to give jobs dignity, as mr schulz said, especially in the context of enlargement. i am very grateful to you for your words in favour of enlargement. we must, however, be careful not to create new divisions and not to abuse eastern european workers, who are unfortunately still extremely underpaid. secondly, as regards the question of the services directive, you are absolutely right. we need a common market in services. but we have to do it in stages. and we also need something you did not mention but only indirectly mentioned: public services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this too must be complementary to the services sector which we are liberalizing. if people see that this europe is for a common market but also for those public services which are very dear to them, then they will certainly accept the liberalisation measures. you're absolutely right. we can't stop now. we must prepare better for enlargement in both areas: in the new member states, but also in the existing member states of the european union, because it has often been wrongly argued that enlargement is to the detriment of the existing members. you were right to say that's not true. but we must also represent this to our own people. the foreign policy is also very important. mr. prime minister, britain has traditionally had good relations with the united states of america. you have a particularly good relationship with president bush. this can be an advantage for europe if it is clear that you also speak for europe, if it is clear that you represent the european position in washington. if you do, we'll be on your side. one of the biggest projects -- you mentioned it -- is the middle east. we need this peace in the middle east, the middle east is our neighbourhood. it's not just any region in the world. it is our neighbourhood, and we need peace between the palestinians and the israelis. you promised to be very active. the european union must not be seen as putting gaza first and gaza last, but we must take a more progressive position. and lastly, keep your good relations with washington, but brussels is closer to london than washington. as much as president bush needs you in washington, we need you here in brussels.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the outgoing president of the council, jean-claude juncker, was given a standing ovation yesterday. you, mr blair, received a convincing welcome in the same house. this is a great vote of confidence in this house, which is the real one because it is the only direct representation of the citizens of this european union. and in times of identity crisis in this european union - prime minister blair, you yourself spoke of a leadership crisis - it is essential to remember that after 50 years of success, this europe needs the bottom-up approach, not so much the bottom-down approach. that means we have to take the citizens with us, not alienate them. and who better to do that than directly elected representatives? to the commission: it is not just that europe needs better regulation. it needs less regulation. i would also like to say this to the members on the left in the european parliament. mr prime minister, your speech was convincing on many points, especially on the principle that if you want to preserve the good, you have to change things. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in this matter. i also welcome your desire to reduce the conflict of objectives of the european union after the constitutional crisis. but her presidency will not be measured by her intentions alone, but above all by her actions. i would therefore ask you to indicate the concrete steps you intend to take to bring the financial perspective to a conclusion under your presidency. secondly, what steps do you intend to take to keep the constitutional process alive, and thirdly, what answers do you give to citizens who fear an expansion of the european union? do you not think it is a bit of a contradiction that you mention turkey and croatia in the same breath? many citizens have reservations about the great turkey, but not about the small croatia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since we seem to be the only group that fully supports the joint compromise we have negotiated, i have consulted with at least some of the other groups and can now also ask on their behalf to postpone the vote under rule 170 of our rules of procedure - irrespective of whether we will vote on it at a later date. i therefore ask for the vote to be postponed under rule 170. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would ask that we vote on the individual amendments en bloc, if possible, but not on the final resolution. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we, the epp delegation, voted in favour of this statute because we took note of the outcome of the negotiations between parliament and the council. we regret that the council has imposed conditions on parliament in relation to the rothley report. one of these conditions was the waiver of the own contribution to the pension as the equivalent of the reduction in salary. any amendment we would have made here today would have brought down this statute of members from the council's point of view. after 10 years of negotiations, it was time for this parliament to give itself a statute of its own, and equal pay for equal work. we have agreed to this compromise, although improvements would undoubtedly have been necessary in many areas.
in writing. we live in an age of rapid technological progress - and crime is growing at the same rate. for example, the recent theft of credit card data may have affected some 800,000 europeans. if we introduce electronic health cards, they could be the next target of organized gangs. cybercrime, illegal downloading, spamming, spyware, child pornography, is booming, and only one to two percent of crimes committed online are ever caught. the widespread ignorance of this is particularly appalling. there are still far too many users who fall victim to email attacks and give out their banking details to scammers. with your good faith, you open the door not only to sensitive data, but often to your own bank account. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, 40% of austrian parents have no idea where to get information on safe internet use and where to report prohibited content. but they're not alone: investigations have revealed that u.s. authorities also have little idea when to report cybercrime to whom. the search for webganoven is like finding a needle in a haystack. this is why it is all the more important that we launch an information campaign to help users not only avoid cyber-traps but also to help fight cybercrime.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, on behalf of my group, i would like to express my condolences to the family of the deceased colleague. i would also like to wish mr laschet all the best for his new role. we shall miss him as a counterpart on the foreign affairs committee. i would like to make an unpleasant request, namely to postpone the commission's question time once again, because we have a great interest in participating in this debate because of our massive demands on the structural funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also ask you, mr president, to consider with the services how we can do this in the coming months, when we will have a number of similar cases - i am thinking of the services directive and reach. i do not want to make the same request every time and take away the right of members. we must think together about how we can keep question time and still allow more space for important debates. however, in the present case, i would like to propose, on behalf of my group, that question time be cancelled, as i said, with the additional request that the services should consider the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to make three preliminary remarks. firstly, the majority of my group voted in favour of the accession of bulgaria and romania on 1 january 2007. secondly, there was a discussion in the conference of presidents about when observers from these countries would be invited to participate in the european parliament. i think that this question should be debated in plenary and that no date can be set yet. thirdly, the countries that joined in 2004 were able to send observers to the european parliament one year before their accession. we believe that this rule should be maintained within this very timeframe and that no date of accession can yet be fixed, for the following reason: the ratification of the accession treaties has not yet been completed. the commission's progress report is not yet available. the resulting sequences are not yet known. the postponement of accession to 1 january 2008 is still possible and we are not prepared financially and organisationally for an earlier observation period. we therefore want a statement from the commission on the status of its planned progress report so that we can draw our conclusions and not put the ten old acceding countries at a disadvantage in terms of observation and cooperation compared to the new member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. could you please explain again exactly when this debate on bulgaria and romania will take place and how long it will last?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the non-attached member martin is now spreading his general, vile, unqualified, insinuating slanders against the european parliament and the eu institutions to our staff as members and officials of the european parliament in the austrian media. in a newspaper, he wrote: "the assistants, mostly young graduates, quickly get used to this three-day week. brussels lures, seduces and corrupts". the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. almost all the heillos are overwhelmed. performance and responsibility are considered foreign words, sloppiness is standard. above all, the staff lacks concentration and perseverance". end of the quote. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i strongly reject the blanket disqualifications of our staff and of the staff of the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i thank all our staff, without whom we could not have carried out our successful work in the service of the citizens, in visitor groups, in legislative work on this scale. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the vote on the directive on a uniform eu driving licence was postponed indefinitely in the council last week. i consider this decision to be extremely irresponsible and shortsighted. such an act is incomprehensible to me. many citizens reject the eu precisely because they think it regulates everything that is possible and impossible. but to put on hold a directive which would bring about greater road safety, out of concern for a further increase in scepticism about europe, is a completely exaggerated short-sighted act in my view. i also see a failure of communication on the part of the ministers responsible for the postponement, who have not even attempted or dared to explain to the citizens the purpose of this directive. this directive could put an end to much of the tourism of driving licences and bring about much greater road safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is precisely what has happened with this council decision and this minister was one of the people responsible for it.
thank you very much, mr president. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment. i call on you and all your colleagues to support this declaration. why would you do that? rheumatic diseases affect 50% of the population of the european union. 50% of rheumatic patients will be unemployed within ten years and account for over 450 million days of paid sick leave in europe each year! this puts a heavy burden on our social and health systems and is also contrary to the essential objectives of lisbon. i therefore ask you to support this declaration, which calls on the commission to finally recognise that rheumatic diseases are major diseases serious diseases and that they should therefore be considered as a special category in the seventh framework programme for research.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would also like to express my surprise that there is a debate on these immunity cases. we've handled this differently, as i recall. i would like to thank mrs wallis for looking at these cases so closely. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i share your opinion and we have also supported you in committee in case 3, the case pending before the court of milan. in the cases of brescia and bergamo, i believe that these are borderline cases in which a member of parliament makes extensive use of the protection afforded to him by the immunity of this house against other persons. i think i've reached a limit here. but i would say in this case, "in doubt, for the defendant". i would be particularly grateful if we could reconsider our opinion and recommendation on case 4, which we already considered problematic in the legal affairs committee. i believe that we have a case here where the safeguards that this house can provide are being abused. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. that means i'm off the record for the next case. we hope that the statute will do that. i think that the current rules are too crude, because they do not protect colleagues who should be protected, but allow others to exploit the system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you want power, if you want to shape, you are to be envied. you are at the moment steering a very important ship through very difficult seas, and i'm sure you are aware of that responsibility. i would like to be one of those who will briefly mention a few of the misguided ones that should not mislead you. i think that in the present political situation it would be a grave mistake to expand the euro area too quickly. i think that transparency in your own institution would be of great value, especially when it comes to tricky decisions and you want to know who was on which side. and ultimately, i also think it's about the credibility of your own house. please look at the structure of your house - the extra posts, the privileges - before it becomes the subject of public debate and your whole house gets stuck where other houses have already been.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. next to the european court of justice, you are the most indisputable institution of the european union. you have a clear mission, and you and your team meet the expectations that are set for you. thank you for that. they are predictable, consistent, reliable, build trust. i ask you to continue the policy of calm and discretion. but at the same time, of course, i also say, intervene when public statements, statistics or actions contradict your beliefs and facts. you're a global player. increase public awareness of global interdependencies and their associated dependencies and consequences. help politicians to make a clear case for the need for structural reforms and the creation of balanced budgets as the basic conditions for sustainable growth and employment growth. mr president, please make sure that you are informed about the economic and monetary situation, because only information creates awareness. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states, and to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states. but i also ask you: warn off the deficit sinners if necessary by higher interest rates and lower internal ratings . we need information on the added value of the euro for growth and employment, the added value of the euro for low interest rates, the added value of the euro for the stability of the eu in the world and the added value of the euro in the pockets of eu citizens. we have a lot of work to do because the mood is not in line with the facts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is sometimes difficult to identify with the european union. the same is true of the euro. what has been done and will be done in our minds needs to be better communicated and discussed. the same is true of the euro. before it was introduced, it was about persuasion. the second is to encourage and confirm people in their positive judgment. it creates sustainability and identity, and that's what we want in communications management. the double pricing is one of the most important accompanying measures both before and after the introduction of the euro. the consumer organisations and the economic and social partners have a crucial role to play in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european monetary system. confidence is strengthened when people find work and enjoy social protection. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr maaten, for his balanced report.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i assume you have good faith. however, i cannot help but mention a few figures on air pollution: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. biodiversity is threatened in over 60% of all ecosystems in europe. if nothing happens by 2020, we'll have 292,000 premature deaths and over 90,000 hospitalizations for respiratory problems. in addition, 650 000 square kilometres of europe's ecosystem are threatened by nitrogen pollution, an area 20 times the size of belgium. the commission has already announced that it will be presenting a thematic strategy in july. their ceo, katherine day, came to see us 14 days ago. she also said: 'in july we will have this thematic strategy. the industry now seems to have the upper hand and, in my opinion, is trying quite blindly to delay this air strategy. i believe that we should pursue this lisbon objective together in order to achieve greater competitiveness. on the one hand, we can emphasize competitiveness, but on the other hand we must not forget sustainability. because europe is known for its sustainable growth. in the long term, i believe this is the only chance we have in the world to ensure our competitiveness vis-à-vis india and china in a sustainable way. i therefore urge you to persuade your colleague to submit this thematic strategy by the autumn at the latest, so that you can deliver on your promises.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a programme and we expect member states to present precise arrangements by 1 december 2007. the commission could provide strong support here, in particular by adopting rules which create financial incentives, for example in the form of support programmes, to achieve best practice and benchmarking by that time. if the objective cannot be achieved within this period, it is quite possible to create a correspondingly stable environment with a further framework directive. i believe that we need a stable investment climate in particular, as we are faced with increasing demand. we need to promote energy efficiency. i would like to congratulate the commissioner in particular on making this a top priority. and we also need decentralized generation to get more stability in the network. this requires proper maintenance and the development of a genuine internal market.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would also like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr michel rocard, very warmly. i would also like to include in this thanks to our rapporteur from the first reading, arlene mccarthy. both have guided us very well through this difficult legislative process up to this point. i have been able to follow the procedure since the first reading and everything that has happened with this draft directive on computer-implemented inventions is not commonplace for legislative work at the level of the european union. we have all experienced a level of lobbying which can be regarded either as intolerable or as a living democracy, a level of insistence on wanting the same thing, namely a high willingness of european companies to innovate. however, we have hardly agreed on a specific wording. we have seen - and this has now been confirmed here - a very inflexible attitude on the part of the european commission and a common position on the part of the council which is not really a common position. the longer and more intensively we study this subject, the more two general considerations become apparent. there are limits to the legislation that we have certainly crossed here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. or we can leave room for manoeuvre. this is at the expense of legal certainty and the consistency of the legislation. normally, this conflict is resolved by a functioning system of legal protection which provides fair legal protection and review to all, large and small. unfortunately, we in europe cannot assume that this is the case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the patent system is not disrupted, and that the patent system is not disrupted. my group will be taking its final position this evening; i can assure you that we are very much behind the amendments tabled by our rapporteur, mr michel rocard.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are deciding today whether innovation in the field of it will be possible and whether the necessary freedom will be given. freedom for small and mediumsized enterprises to develop. now everyone says they want that, both the anti-patent and the pro-patent. nobody here is saying openly that they want to patent software. the difference lies in the amendments themselves, namely in the number of back doors to software patenting that are opened. the difference is whether there is a clear line between technical inventions, which are of course to continue to be patented, and software which is already protected by copyright. the question is: are there 10 or 15 back doors and legal uncertainty, or is there freedom for the development of small and mediumsized enterprises? if you choose the council's common position today, you are choosing wide-open, barricaded-open doors for the whole patent system, which will gradually conquer the market in europe. then you decide that the trips agreement will cover software in its entirety. then you decide to make ideas commodities in a market where small and medium-sized companies have no chance of competing because the litigation costs of developing and defending patents in court are too high. it is not possible that every small and medium-sized enterprise is condemned to hire a patent lawyer to defend its innovations. but if you support the 21 amendments, which have wide support, you give innovative and creative smes room to move, in other words, room and opportunity to develop. the 21 amendments correct the mistake made by governments who were obviously on the wrong track and who bowed to the pressure of industry. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights, which is a matter of principle for the member states. this is clearly seen in some of the advertisements placed by sap and other companies, for example in european voice. if you look at this, you will see what the council's common position really means. the 21 amendments are what you are trying to achieve, that we have a free market, that competition takes place in the market and not in the courts, and that is why i ask you to support these 21 amendments! we need them urgently for the development of european innovation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to address those who are not here today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and the ones who have been bothering us with e-mails, with faxes, with phone calls. i think it's wonderful! today and tomorrow are important days for the future of democracy in europe. people who are affected are taking care of their own. we have seen for ourselves that the many arguments put forward here are often much more clever, much more detailed, much more precise than what we can devise in the flood of things we have to decide. five and a half thousand nominated amendments, 50 000 additional votes in five years, none of us can claim to know anything about it. what we got delivered was good. it convinced me. i am convinced that we are doing a favour to democracy, to small and mediumsized enterprises and, yes, to economic prosperity if we vote against these software patents. and i want to encourage those outside with their whistles and t-shirts to stay tuned, post the voting results, show everyone how they really voted! then you can see if the members have followed party resolutions, lobbyists or their own conscience.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. after this two-hour debate, does anyone have the impression that there is a viable common position that we can accept? does anyone have the impression after this debate that this delicate question has been discussed, that it is ready for decision, that we have the necessary qualified majority for a yes or for the full number of amendments? i don't think he did. and there's a reason for that. the first reading on 24 september 2004 was not taken into account at all in the council's political agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the council itself is uncertain. on 21 december the vote was taken off the agenda at the request of poland. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. voting was postponed further and further. the european parliament has asked the commission to submit a new proposal at first reading. there is a decision of the legal affairs committee, a decision of the conference of presidents, a decision of the plenary on a new proposal. how did the council react? he's ordered a no-discussion order, made it an a-point so it won't be discussed. and although the treaty of nice came into force, the controversial political agreement was simply agreed. the result: the common position is not satisfactory and we have 178 amendments. for reasons of substance - i could mention them, they are in the amendments - i think that this common position does not create legal certainty, it does not encourage innovation and it scares the little ones. we are therefore well advised to reject the common position tomorrow and to use all our strength to harmonize european patent law, rather than adopting controversial sectoral regulations to replace it.
i have to say, madam president, the euro was originally intended to improve citizens' identification with the eu and to usher in a new economic boom. instead, it has not been fully accepted and has led to the opposite, namely an increase in frustration with the european union. this negative development began with the introduction of a questionable instrument, the so-called stability and growth pact, which was used to counter the criticism and rejection of the euro by citizens with the promise of a hard currency. this was not only economically and legally questionable. apart from luxembourg and switzerland, no country could have met the convergence criteria at that time. in order to participate in the single currency, however, a large number of gold reserves and state property were sold, sham privatisation or spin-offs were made and budgetary cosmetics were made. massive price increases in most eurozone countries were the result. in order to avoid this negative spiral spreading to the new member states, the people in each country should be free to decide by voting, and this after being informed in an open, honest and objective manner.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to make a general remark that structural policy is probably the area of community policy which is perceived very strongly by people in europe, usually very positively, similar to agricultural policy, especially since it is a policy for strengthening rural areas. we still have different financing instruments and financing rules. in the long term, however, we must aim to have a policy that is binding on the whole of the eu. we must think together about how we can further strengthen cooperation between the different funds and policy areas in the future in order to achieve an overall coherent policy. in particular, i would like to draw your attention to the following points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. to simplify administration: the european commission must be very flexible, especially when amending or adapting programmes, in order to avoid imposing too many obstacles on the managing authorities in their day-to-day management of the programmes. mountain areas are particularly important, as they fulfil a wide range of functions which are essential for the overall viability of the union and its rural areas. the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the task of developing a common policy on the environment. in addition, competition policy with its ceilings should be aligned much more closely than in the past with structural policy in order to achieve overall coherence.
the commission has already done so. in the present situation, where the european union is having difficulty in articulating itself, or at least in an articulating way that is understood by its citizens, it is all the more important that eu legislation and case law become clearer and more understandable. i therefore welcome the proposal. but if it is to be a question of modernisation and improvement, as mentioned in this document, then i regret that the method of recasting does not allow for substantial changes and additions, such as equality in company pensions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission and the council are now opposed to it, and i wonder why this opportunity was not seized. it would have been necessary to emphasize this more strongly, and i regret that this was not the case!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the united states, as we know, invaded iraq under the pretext of the existence of weapons of mass destruction and is now trying to impose its idea of democracy on the iraqi people. not only the duration of this intervention, but also its cost and impact have been underestimated. the now lawless iraqi space offers an ideal opportunity for extremists to regroup and gain combat experience. the us invasion has turned the country into a training ground for terrorists from all over the world, who are now just waiting to use their new knowledge here. we are all paying for the american mistakes, whether in the form of increased terrorist activities or the ever-growing number of islamic extremist groups. it is not acceptable that europe should pay more for this us misguided policy in the form of troop deployments. peace in iraq and a solution to the problems can only come from within. we should therefore rather support the reconstruction of education, the economy and the fight against the flourishing corruption. this would be a worthwhile task for europe.
thank you very much, mr president. the president-in-office has explained to us at length and in great detail how impolite it is not to report in time within speaking time or to be present at the vote. we have a resolution in this house which says that at 1:30 p.m. the voting will be closed. we in this house stick to what we agree on in principle and not to what we hear from the president ad hoc.
i have to say, madam president, i would just like to point out that unfortunately mr rocard was unable to get a single amendment through and that the european parliament was unable to deliver an opinion on it. we now face the problem that national legislation will continue to apply unchanged and that the decisions of the courts will be very different. this will be a huge cost burden for large companies and therefore contrary to the lisbon objectives. the small companies are going to be in a total mess because they are going to have to deal with 27 different patent rights. i would ask the commission to submit a new proposal for a community patent and to discuss it with the experts beforehand. i would also ask the commission to start drafting a proposal as soon as possible.
in writing. the turkish government is trying to approach western standards in its efforts to improve the situation of women. the rights granted to them by law are enjoyed by them to varying degrees: while equality seems to be achieved in elite groups, not much has been done in the broadest strata. on the contrary, as they are often denied the benefits of state-initiated modernisation, they are increasingly aligning themselves with islamist parties that offer supposed 'solutions' and are thus experiencing a boost. several factors are counterproductive in this context: the first is that political and social engagement has been or is being promoted only as long as it does not question the relationship between the sexes, that is, women continue to be subordinate. it is also problematic that the lack of social contact between the different ethnic and religious groups or the different classes has led to hardened fronts among women. it is also considered to be an underestimation if the state does not include unemployed women in official statistics, because it is assumed that they are returning to their 'normal position' as housewives. this not only undermines its role as a model, but also creates a distorted image which must be examined in greater detail in the context of accession negotiations.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we are shocked, and indeed ashamed, to remember the victims of the srebrenica massacre. many of the perpetrators have not yet been apprehended. but we, as representatives of the european people, must also be aware of our complicity in the tragic events in the balkans and bear the consequences. and it's not just the victims and the families of the victims who have a right to confession and to repentance. the future of europe, the future of the region and the future of serbia also require an awareness of one's own guilt, and this awareness is the prerequisite for forgiveness and reconciliation. we are not here to humiliate serbia, to condemn serbs in general, or to excuse the misdeeds and crimes of other peoples, but to ask for insight and repentance. but we must be clear that looking at the past is a means of creating a better future. europe must give this region a clear perspective. the balkan countries - as history shows - have been for too long the plaything and object of the interests and machinations of the great european powers, including or not turkey - depending on how one views this. but now - and i say this not only as rapporteur for croatia but as someone who is committed to the whole region - we must give them the chance to put their own house in order. we must give them the chance to show that they have learned from history, that human rights and, above all, the rights of minorities are respected. if minister douglas and commissioner rehn have outlined the various processes which should lead to bringing these countries closer to the european union, i would like to say very clearly and unequivocally: the aim must be to give these countries the chance to become members of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it must also be clear that it is up to the countries themselves to do their homework and yours to help create the possibility of accession. but, as my predecessor has already said, the prospect that they may one day, in due course, be members of the european union, having overcome their own problems, is a prospect we must maintain, especially in the face of the many young people who see europe as their ideal. even if we are critical of the development of the european union, we must recognize that many people in this balkan region have a great hope: to belong to the european union, to the common europe. and we have to give them that chance. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i welcome the resolution on security in the far east. i am particularly pleased that this resolution is based on a broad consensus of all the political groups. it is therefore also determining the political framework within which the korea mission, which i have the honour of chairing, will take place. there have been two ad hoc missions before, but this is the first european parliament mission to north and south korea since the first parliamentary delegation to the korean peninsula. the political background of this visit is that the european parliament wants to bring the european union into play as the seventh negotiating partner in the six-party talks. it is also in our interest that north korea overcome its isolation in order to receive appropriate humanitarian aid from the eu. the return to the negotiating table and verifiable disarmament and denuclearisation are essential conditions not only for the rapprochement of the two koreas and thus for the détente of the region, but also for access to greater european support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is also concerned about the situation in the democratic people's republic of korea, which is a country which has been in a state of crisis for many years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in view of the allegations and deliberate misinformation by the liberals and social democrats in recent days about the motives behind this debate, which i firmly reject, let me make the following clear once again. why are we having this debate? because the conference of group chairmen has at short notice corrected its decision to invite representatives of romania and bulgaria to participate as observers in the european parliament one year before accession and reversed it because of the change of opinion of the social democrats. because the correction of the decision has set a specific date, which is before the commission's progress report and thus before the definitive date of accession, which means a difference in treatment with the 2004 candidate countries. and because the president of this house did not inform us on monday that he had already sent out a written invitation. it was never a question of when bulgaria and romania would join. the political decision has been made. nobody wants to slow down something we've decided. i voted with the large majority of the epp group in favour of the accession of romania and bulgaria on 1 january 2007; the commission has also decided on the way forward. i think, however, that the decision of the conference of presidents is premature and wrong in the light of the facts. i am particularly sorry that the president withheld from us on monday an important piece of information about his behavior. no one wants to invite out someone we've invited and we're looking forward to their cooperation. we are concerned, and have been concerned, exclusively with the question of whether we take ourselves seriously, whether the content is more important than the date, whether equal treatment is more important than the day-to-day political petty cash. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur. the commission has shown the necessary commitment in its report and, as we can see from the debate so far, the overwhelming majority of this house is behind it. it is important that this report be adopted by a large majority because it improves the immense weaknesses of the commission's proposal. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european environment agency (eea) is based on the principle of the european environment agency (eea) and the european environment agency (eea) and is based on the principle of the european environment agency (eea). the commission's plan to finance natura 2000 networks through the structural funds runs the immense risk of leaving too little money available in practice to finance these networks. mrs haug has already referred to the result of yesterday's vote. the commission's approach also shows that it does not want to assume its responsibility for the implementation of community environmental policies. the commission has also completely ignored an essential condition for funding from the structural funds, namely to include a clause to ensure proper management of the natura 2000 networks. it is therefore necessary that we follow the approach of the rapporteur, who integrates the costs of implementing natura 2000 into the life+ programme, with a convincing majority.
mr president, commissioner dimas, you are very well aware of the problems we face. i don't envy you your position at the moment. on monday you had to answer to us here in parliament because of the shift in the thematic strategies which the commission announced and which it is now obvious that it does not want to bring about. today we are talking about the new financial instrument life+, and here too we do not share the same views. in principle, however, i should like to congratulate the commission on having created one of the pioneering programmes of european environmental policy with this life instrument, which was launched in 1992. the important thing is that the birds directive, the habitats directive and the flora and fauna directive should be implemented and that the implementation was also financially supported. the integrated management approach adopted by the commission has been important and i fully support it because that is what is special about this programme, which is not the case with other programmes. the new proposal covers the period 2007 to 2013 and is also designed to support the objectives of the eu's sixth environment action programme. i would also remind you that - we talk a lot about lisbon in this house - one of the objectives for 2010 - the lisbon year - is to halt the loss of biodiversity in europe. this is an objective in itself, which has very likely also socioeconomic implications. i come from a region where tourism plays a very important role. our capital is this biodiversity, this natural wealth that our region has. it is important that we continue to support the natura network financially with the new programme. the commission's approach of integrating with the regional development funds is certainly the right one. however, i would point out that we have different objectives here. it is essential to resolve this conflict of objectives in order to strike the necessary balance between the two parts - meaningful regional development on the one hand and nature conservation on the other.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. china's textile and clothing industry has seen over $20 billion invested in the last three years alone. even our industries have had a big part in it. capacity has been increased by 50%. thus, china produces 20 billion items of clothing a year, or four for every person on this globe! so much for capacity. now, on the social side, female textile workers in china are at the bottom of the social ladder. many earn less than a dollar a day and have no legal rights. but china's share of the global textile market is growing rapidly. the poorest countries in the world are now losing their textile industries as well. africa stricken with aids is losing thousands of jobs every day. the european union is currently losing a thousand jobs a day. more than 30 million jobs are at risk of displacement worldwide, and another 30 million are at risk from subcontractors. this is more than a job revolution. this is a social disaster! in fact, in china, the country is in competition with itself. social regulations are being reduced and companies are being freed from social burdens. and we talk about fair trade and core labor standards and let capital grant whatever it wants. commissioner, i want you to do one thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i say this as vice president of the international textile, garment and leather workers union, which has over 10 million members in 110 countries around the world. we are shocked by this disaster!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make it clear that i voted against the béguin report twice when we voted on amendment no 43, not because i was ignoring the content and the proposal of the committee on the environment, but because we should be asking ourselves the fundamental question of whether we can now take decisions in individual committees in the middle of the debate on the financial perspective which are contrary to our decision in the böge report. we are only strong in negotiations with the council if we do not, even now, until the decision on the financial perspective, undermine our decision-making basis, however legitimate the individual committee opinions may be. i therefore voted against both of these points, taking into account our negotiations on the financial perspective.
in writing. many swiss citizens are sceptical about the european union. they fear for their political rights and do not want to be forced to do anything. the alpine country has so far taken a wise course with bilateral treaties and is thus in a privileged partnership with the eu, which would certainly be recommended to many other states in order to preserve its sovereignty and specificities. the union, shaken by crises, is experiencing one fiasco after another - most recently shaken by the german visa affair, followed closely by a double constitutional no and unresolved budgetary issues. the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of states, a political union of nations, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states, a political union of states. the implicit threat of schengen-dublin is not exactly a confidence-building measure, given the prevailing suspicion, so that everyone knows how to vote in september on the extension of the agreements to the new eu states. it is precisely this ignorance and the all too obvious override of sovereign decisions that worries european citizens. it cannot be that millions of dollars in subsidies and illusory promises are used to attract new members or to tie countries closer to the eu in order to deprive them of the opportunity to pursue their own path outside the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on behalf of the epp-ed group, i would like to expressly welcome the agreement between europe and canada on the processing and transfer of extended passenger data and passenger data files. we believe that this agreement is very balanced. it is a major step forward in dealing with the sensitive issues of global security and the fight against international terrorism, which we have sadly had to witness again today. the epp-ed group abstained from voting today because we wanted to express to the council our protest against the short deadlines. such short deadlines are not serious and do not allow for the necessary debate that should take place here. our protest is directed solely against the procedure. we want this agreement because the security of the citizens we represent in the european parliament depends on it! we must be careful not to allow the commission to be the one to make the mistake of not voting. i would like to express my sincere congratulations to the commission on the agreement and on the proposal, and also to the rapporteur.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say, in addition to the chairman of our group, that i abstained from voting on the resolutions on romania and bulgaria because the fact that the president of parliament had already invited the observers in writing on friday effectively deprived both resolutions of their business. we in the epp/ed group have done the right thing in withdrawing the resolution because of this change in the basis of business. the other side did not do so, but we were not against the content, but all the decisions had already been taken and actions had been taken, so there was no need to take a new decision. i am always of the opinion that if you have issued an invitation, you should not invite the guests again unless the basis has changed. all guests are welcome, and we look forward to working with you. but we believe that equal treatment of all the applicant countries, respect for the rules and seriousness of the content should be our priority before any date. otherwise, the citizen will feel that we are not treating everyone equally. i must say again that the president of parliament would have had the duty to inform us in the debate on monday of the state of play of his actions. we would have been spared much blame, emotionalisation and misinterpretation before and during this debate.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in view of the dramatic impact of the latest stage of liberalisation in the textile sector on 1 january 2005, there was an urgent need for action and i very much welcome the commission's action. the rapid opening of negotiations and the action taken are highly commendable. but these measures could have been more intensive and more rapid. i would like to stress the important role of the european parliament in this respect. it is precisely because of our activities that the commission was even more compelled to take these measures. it may have done so on a smaller scale. but european policy must respond to these challenges. we have a very great advantage in europe, namely that consumers - and i am glad to say that i am sure they are among the most mature consumers in the world. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. we should think about whether we should not create a label, a 'made in europe' label with certain very strict criteria which must be met in order to be able to carry this label. the first of these criteria is, of course, compliance with international labour standards, social and environmental standards and the prohibition of child labour. if we can do that, we can respond to this development in other ways, and then make the world a little more social and beautiful.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his work. it is necessary to create special measures in all the policies of the european union. this is of course also and above all true of agriculture, especially in the outermost regions of the european union. i myself come from a region which for decades has been on the fringes of western europe and the free world. my home, the forest district, was struggling with some of the same difficulties: difficult topography, climatic conditions, limited resources, a small regional market and few jobs. european union support programmes have helped to develop an innovative and independent agriculture and create jobs. a fundamental principle of the european union is solidarity in action. unfortunately, this is not something that many heads of state are so open about these days. this is particularly true in the area of the common agricultural policy. productive agriculture must be possible in all areas and in all locations of the union, as the council decided at the brussels and luxembourg meetings. finally, agriculture often contributes to the employment and prosperity of people, particularly in geographically disadvantaged regions. in addition, the support measures in question will enable our model of multifunctional, sustainable agriculture to become a model in all parts of the eu, far from the continent. in many countries neighbouring the regions concerned - i am thinking here particularly of south america - an agricultural industry like that in the united states is being built up. here we have the opportunity to create a sustainable economy by other means, which are economically, ecologically and socially balanced.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like to make a correction. mr posselt has failed to notice that the request was not made by mr schulz but by another member. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was therefore a democratic vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to endorse fully the argument that we must help romania in this difficult time to survive a serious natural disaster. at the same time, romania must prepare for membership of the european union. in this context, however, i find it all the more worrying that in romania the government is attempting to remove the presidents of both houses of parliament and also of the various regional parliaments during the current legislative period by means of a legislative amendment. i think romania has more important things to do, and romania also has to make sure that there is a consensus in the country. perhaps you could ask your colleagues in romania, mr president. i would also ask the representatives of the other political parties to exert their influence so that we try to resolve these matters by consensus and in internal peace and not to act in this way against the opposition parties. romania needs the political consensus to prepare well for the european union and its membership of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to take this opportunity today to inform parliament of a remarkable initiative by young europeans. over 50 participants from six european countries re-enacted the european parliament in a workshop at a university of applied sciences in my constituency, with the aim of making the union more attractive to citizens. the result was a resolution on the creation of a europe close to the citizen, from which i would like to make a few points. the young people as a european parliament call on the commission to provide european citizens with comprehensive information on the member states, european politics and the diversity of cultural life. they are calling for the process of enlargement to be slowed down. they propose that the eu should work more closely with national broadcasters to increase information about the eu. they believe that eu information material must reach citizens in their daily lives and in their everyday spaces, and they consider that a comprehensive eu cooperation with national educational institutions is necessary to convey cultural, historical and political contexts.
i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. i myself come from one of the affected areas: vorarlberg. but what is happening in portugal and in the southern united states is just as familiar. as a committed european, we should look much further and go beyond what has been rightly said by our colleagues. you'd have to look to 2050. climate change is already here. this is not just the opinion of the head of the un environment agency, klaus töpfer, but also the scientific experience. isn't it time that we quickly put together a master plan - similar to what nasa did in the 1980s for the coming climate change - that lists in great detail what we are likely to have to expect and that doesn't have any taboos, including the taboo of having to abandon certain areas that are now inhabited? we in europe will not be able to afford to rebuild all these protected areas every year or every three years. it's high time we really looked beyond that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have already expressed our solidarity with the victims of these environmental disasters. it is equally important that, after the television cameras have been switched off, we continue to ensure that there is solidarity with those affected within the european union. when people are building a life for the third time in six years, as is the case in some parts of my region, it is not surprising that there is great despair. i think that our definition of the solidarity fund is too narrow if it is not possible to intervene financially on the european side, even though there are losses, as in my region, where a third of the national budget has literally gone down the drain. what can the eu do besides reformulating the criteria for the solidarity fund? i think it can remind the member states of their own obligations. this has already been mentioned: climate change has already happened here. we must remember - and i say this as an austrian - that my country has a long way to go to meet the kyoto target. commissioner, you can't just sit there and say, if there's a fire, we'll get as many planes as we can. we have to intervene before that happens! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have discussions in this direction ahead of us, and i think we need to rethink this. we now have the opportunity to take appropriate medium-term measures in the next research framework programme on transeuropean networks.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to express my solidarity with all the victims and in particular my gratitude to the many volunteers who helped. we had terrible fires in southern europe, we had terrible floods in the united states, in china and especially in the european alps. vorarlberg, tyrol, switzerland and many parts of bavaria were badly affected. in my home country, tyrol, the damage was very great. let me give you a few figures. we had damage of hundreds of millions of euros in the public road network, in the drinking water supply, in the construction of goods roads and also in the communications sector. in all, over a thousand homes were affected, and many people lost their livelihoods as factories and businesses were destroyed. we all know that we must act quickly and, above all, conduct a thorough investigation of the causes. the commissioner dimas has already outlined some of the measures. you 're a good first step . the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency. the eu solidarity fund will also contribute to this, and we should adapt the rules so that such major regional events can be tackled properly. we must nevertheless make a thorough analysis. we note that these natural disasters have unfortunately increased in intensity in recent times, and that their frequency is also increasing massively. the greater intensity is certainly related to the fact that we use the narrow spaces more intensively, especially in mountainous areas, and that critical areas are also inhabited. so here we have to look at exactly what is habitable. the higher frequency is certainly closely linked to global warming, but here too we should continue research through european funding programmes and, above all, consider the possibility of prevention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this draft directive was useful and necessary and was generally welcomed by industry. we should create a uniform, fair, proportionate and complete system for the european economy. there is also an acceptable compromise report. the aim was to prevent accidents and the resulting damage to the environment and human health, as they occur in the treatment and disposal of waste from the extractive industries, by setting minimum requirements to improve the management of this waste. the waste from the extractive industries amounts to about 400 million tonnes a year. this represents 29% of the total waste generated in the community. of course, this management involves risks. we all know about the accidents in baia mare, aberfan and so on. the environmental benefits of waste management not only reduce waste but also provide an incentive for companies to invest in research into environmental issues related to the extractive industries, thus acquiring valuable know-how on the world market. there are many examples here. i would like to quote from austria: one of our companies has managed to keep about 100 000 tonnes of mineral building material out of landfills. however, there are also weaknesses, such as the unclear scope of the directive. i am sorry to say that my amendment did not receive a majority. i would also like to point out that there must be provisions for non-hazardous waste or inert waste which must remain proportionate. i therefore think that amendments nos 11, 13 and 47 should be rejected and that we should also make alternative proposals for provisions on non-hazardous waste and inert waste and consider these terms separately. the temporary storage of non-hazardous or inert waste should also be allowed.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european union has undoubtedly achieved a great deal in the field of aviation safety, but it is certainly not enough. in august we had five plane accidents in that one month, and as soon as september started, something happened again. this has once again demonstrated not only the sad state of the debate on the commission's proposal for a regulation on passenger information but also the urgent need for regulations to improve safety in the air transport sector. in order to increase safety, the rapporteur went far beyond the commission's proposal in her report on the proposal for a regulation under discussion. i should therefore like to congratulate you on this draft report. in particular, i welcome the call for a single common list based on common and harmonised objective criteria and the related call for a flight ban on airlines on that list. the airlines which do not comply with european safety standards, which in many cases are more concerned with making money than with aviation, must be listed, denounced and sanctioned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the air transport sector is not affected by the introduction of the single market. but this has again shown us the importance of harmonized criteria and a uniform list. for example, the french and belgian lists do not contain the same airline in any case. given that european citizens do not only travel within the eu, it is essential to me that there should be the possibility of including airlines worldwide in this list, otherwise the information content for european citizens will not be really efficient. passengers must continue to be clear about who is carrying out the transport and they must have better and easier access to information about safety deficiencies. it goes without saying that there is always only one person available or responsible for the passenger's concerns. but a regulation without consequences would be ineffective. the passenger must therefore be given the opportunity to draw conclusions. the logical consequences are a right of withdrawal and the reimbursement of the ticket price and compensation payments. but it must also be possible to impose sanctions on airlines, such as administrative fines, if they do not comply with their duty to provide information. i am glad that the commission is also supporting this and that everyone here recognises the need to implement this regulation as quickly as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has created a great deal of distrust among passengers and the general public in europe as regards the quality of airlines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am very glad that commissioner barrot has already mentioned that there will be inspections for the controls and that we will also develop common criteria for blacklists. i think that is very important. but i am already hearing from the member states that some of them will not be prepared to accept common european criteria, arguing that they are, as usual, weaker than the national criteria and that this could in turn be used to spread propaganda against the european union and its policies. we must prevent this by means of clear, rigorous and comprehensible criteria. that is one of the key requirements. we need to get to the highest possible security standard. we owe it to the passengers who rely on us and who should be able to rely on us. i take it for granted that third countries must be involved. i know the difficulties involved. but not only for reasons of immediate safety, but also to prevent airlines from being flagged off, as has unfortunately happened in some cases in the shipping industry, we must not allow this process to take place in the aviation industry. the commission has therefore decided to make every effort to integrate third country airlines in order to achieve credibility. the market has become opaque to the consumer. we must make it transparent by means of common, clear lists. we must also give consumers the means of information with consequences and the right to withdraw, because only then will airlines themselves take the necessary immediate and swift action. we are concerned about the credibility of the union. the protection of airspace and passengers must be a top priority.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the need for worker protection has always been downplayed by employers. for example, it took decades to recognise occupational diseases, but the wearing and provision of hearing protection in apprenticeship establishments was not considered to be a health protection for a long time. and now artificial and optical radiation, this subject so important to workers, has also become the subject of daily controversy in the tabloids! we should return to the council's proposal on the proposal for a directive on optical radiation. comparing natural sunlight to sunbathing is really controversial. there is a difference between a worker being exposed to extreme sunlight all day long and a person taking a reasonably short sunbath. this is all against the backdrop of a proven sharp increase in skin cancer risk rates in europe! construction workers, forestry workers and other workers exposed to radiation in the open air are particularly at increased risk. the obligation to inform employers and the safety and health officer in the event of extreme weather is certainly not a disproportionately costly requirement and should be taken seriously. moreover, greater legal certainty for both sides, for workers' protection and for insurance, makes perfect sense and is a necessity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to comment on the saïfi report. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. it is a very good report in terms of content. however, there are some concerns that need to be expressed. in view of the current and known problems with textile imports from china, it could be said that the report is already outdated. however, i think it is important that our previous demands be recorded once again in such a report. we must continue to confront the problem that has arisen here. i believe that europe has a great opportunity, namely to become the most mature consumer in the world. it would be very interesting, at least for the future, to call for the creation of a single 'made in europe' label, subject to strict criteria. this should ensure that what our consumers buy has been produced under reasonable conditions, without massive damage to the environment and without child labour and the like. the establishment of such a label could also provide a new way for european policy to respond to these challenges.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. my question is: how do we deal with the disinformation that is being spread about europe and the european institutions? does this disinformation come from european citizens or from outside europe? and more importantly, who pays them? wouldn't the best answer be to train journalists to do that? let us try to bring a hundred young journalists to brussels every year! the best of them will be awarded with an internationally recognised prize. i believe that communicating europe is an absolute priority, and we members in particular, a house of over 700 specialists, are happy to be at your disposal.
i have to say, madam president, the delegation for relations with the united states was in america a few weeks ago. the question now is: is it not possible to develop a common catalogue of persons who pose a security risk? i believe that a transparent list of criteria would be particularly important on both sides of the atlantic. does the commission have any ideas?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. as a result of the lisbon strategy, the eu launched the 'eeurope' action plan, which aims to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the information economy, in particular the internet, by 2010. it also includes measures for member states to achieve a secure internet. but internet security is not just about using smart cards and fighting viruses, it is also about fighting harmful and illegal content. i therefore ask the commission to ensure that this aspect is incorporated more strongly in the future eeurope action plans by means of concrete measures. for example, 80% of young people in austria are internet users, of whom 50% are online almost daily. the number of pornographic web sites is estimated at about 260 million. the internet sex trade, especially child pornography, is booming. the european parliament cannot therefore call for the protection of minors and young people often enough. it is also important to ensure that the limits of human dignity are not exceeded in order to increase competitiveness. action must be called for and implemented at political, business and educational levels. parents are also involved. the objective must be to achieve comparable levels of protection of young people and human dignity in order to increase the long-term competitiveness of audiovisual, information and online services. filter systems need to be more widely used. in future, minors should not be able to access content such as child pornography, racist and violent content. information and awareness campaigns, continuous training of teachers and educators, and the introduction of a quality label for operators who adhere to a certain code of conduct are urgently needed. voluntary self-control is good, but it does not provide adequate protection for children from harmful content in the flood of offers. the right to be heard is also an important requirement, and should apply to all new electronic means of communication, i.e. audiovisual media and online services, while taking into account the freedom of expression and the specific nature of the service in question. it is regrettable that we are dealing here with only a recommendation and can only make demands of the member states. i would like to see a regular check, however, so that we can exert public pressure and thereby separate the good from the better.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs grossetête, for the excellent work she has done. i think it is very critical that the european commission has come so late with this proposal for paediatric medicines. after all, 100 million children in the european union are affected. it is in this particular case that a coordinated european approach is not only important but indispensable. why would you do that? we can identify three areas of concern. firstly, the national markets for paediatric medicines are far too small to be of interest to pharmaceutical companies; only the community market has the necessary significant size. secondly, clinical trials on children should and must be avoided wherever possible. where they are strictly necessary, they must comply with the strict requirements of the clinical trials directive. this makes it all the more necessary to make all test results centrally accessible in order to avoid unnecessary duplication of testing. thirdly, the development of new medicines for adults must not be impeded by the mandatory testing of medicines for their potential effects on children provided for in the proposal. the proposed paediatric committee at the emea in london therefore has the important function of rapidly clarifying these issues for the whole union. the committee also aims to improve the assessment of the need for medicinal products and studies in the assessment of paediatric trial designs, exemptions and suspensions, and to provide a reliable source of information for healthcare professionals and patients. this is the only way to tackle the ethical and economic problems of paediatric medicines in a more organized way. we must create a single and functioning european market here, so that we can finally give our children the medicines they deserve, namely the best.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. of course, the balance between freedom and security was also called for today, at the beginning of the debate. but in the midst of the pain, the anger, and most of all the powerlessness, the balance is slipping away too quickly. i was very pleased when mr schulz made critical remarks to the council presidency today about the willingness to work together in a genuine european way, but then he was also moved to say in a programmatic way that we must not be stingy, we must respond to terrorism in its own language. but what is the language of terror? hatred, contempt for human dignity and freedom and indiscriminate, ruthless violence, even against the innocent. that is the language of terror, and to that language we will not respond in the same way, but with our language. we will only defend our values if we also respect them; the most scrupulous respect for the law, the most scrupulous use of force, the greatest possible protection of the innocent - that is our language. and just as the balance sometimes gets off track under public pressure in speech, it gets off track even more when we act. mr president of the council, mr minister of the interior! they also spoke of balance, but they did not lose a word on the lack of a charter of fundamental rights, which is a prerequisite for enhanced cooperation in europe, or on the guaranteed rights of freedom. you wiped the constitution off the table. they have ignored the fact that the 'no' vote in france and the netherlands was clearly not a rejection of the european constitutional process but a disappointment at unfulfilled expectations. intergovernmentalism and the lack of progress in european integration have also contributed to this. we should not be talking about the right to wage war, but rather about the resolute defence of rights, freedom and democracy. you haven't lost a word about the circumvention of parliamentary rights. they have not lost a word on the precarious democratic quality, prevention and cooperation between the intelligence services and the police, nor on parliament's criticism of sloppy reports which do not clarify the proportionality of the resources, the appropriateness or the need at all. i do not think it is enough to throw the word terrorism, human trafficking or international crime into the air to unleash new police resources. this europe will defend itself above all by being europe: a free democracy based on law and not on hatred.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president-in-office, you said at the beginning that the people of europe are disappointed and dissatisfied. yeah, but why are they? because we, the european union, are not doing successfully, credibly, convincingly enough what they expect us to do. why don't we do that? it is not because we lack commitment or the will to do so, but because we lack the competence and the will of some member states to put their words into action. some members of parliament are continually lamenting the regulatory frenzy. i miss the need for stronger european rules in the field of security. i call on the council to give us the means, give us the instruments, give the community the powers to do what the citizens of europe rightly expect of us. let's finally follow the words with deeds! if the european union is to be the answer to globalisation, we need more european union and the rapid implementation of the concept of political union with a common foreign, security and defence policy. if the european union is to provide a credible, serious and rapid response to the dangers of terrorism, drug use, trafficking in human beings, illegal immigration and corruption, we need more money and more european union. if we are to make a real contribution to growth and employment, research and development, social security and the fight against poverty, we need more money and more european union. we do not need any more demands on the eu, no more lip service and blame-sweeping in sunday speeches. we need more politics, more will to unite, more determination, more political action, more european union. the european union is the most important partial solution to all problems that do not stop at national borders. the nationalization of the eu is the greatest friend of terrorists, egoists, extremists and opportunists. a common europe, a strong eu, is its greatest enemy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the middle east remains a major crisis area. the united states had presented its model of iraq as an example of democratization and liberalization in the islamic world, so that all problems could be solved in one fell swoop. the failed experiment was supposed to stabilize the zone, secure access to oil, and enable disarmament and demilitarization. instead, the war on terrorism has driven a wedge between european allies and is seen by the arab world as a strategic oil-security campaign. the american occupation has been stylized by fanatics as a war against the islamic world. bush has not only produced a pile of debris, but has also created the breeding ground for more terrorist training camps. the us intervention was nothing but a poorly prepared, almost unilateral occupation, in which the potential for resistance was underestimated as well as the costs. the aim is to attract partners - europeans, for example - to cover these costs. the israeli-palestinian problem also has yet to find a real solution. the european union is also committed to the peace process, and the european union is committed to the peace process, and the european union is committed to the peace process. the nuclear arms race in this region, which is being exacerbated by the problem of israel's nuclear arsenal, is a particular cause for concern. the resulting arab belief that the us is always on israel's side in times of doubt adds to the appeal of nuclear weapons as a prestigious project. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is now being prepared by the council. the middle east remains a region of global danger. europe may still be out of the range of middle eastern missiles, but it is only a matter of time before we too become a target. the eu must therefore step up its efforts in the middle east, but the inclusion of turkey cannot in any way stabilise the region. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty on european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the withdrawal from gaza was certainly an important historical step and will remain so. but it will only remain so if we work with the palestinians and with the support of the israelis to make the gaza strip a viable area, and if we also succeed in convincing the israelis that further steps are necessary in the west bank as well. we will not get as many withdrawals as we probably want in this parliament, as the palestinians in particular want, but - as my predecessor has already said - this process must continue, otherwise it will collapse and we will not get many of the positive results we hope for. secondly, like my colleague mcmillan-scott and others, i would like to stress the importance of investing in the whole region, especially in the development of democracy and civil society. we had a debate today with secretary clarke on counterterrorism. the development of the region around us, particularly the islamic-arab world, is also a part of this. this also requires appropriate political and financial measures. i would like to draw the presidency's attention to the fact that investments in gaza and in the region as a whole obviously require financial resources. it is one thing to promise and promise something here, but it is another to take this into account when budgeting. the last point concerns iran. we are deeply concerned about developments in iran, but they are also the result of our tolerance of the development of nuclear weapons, for example in pakistan, india and israel. it is also the result of our inability to limit nuclear weapons in general. we must take action, but it must be done in consultation with all the parties concerned, otherwise it will not be effective. unilateral sanctions are ineffective, so this matter must be referred to the united nations. there must be a common solution. i hope that the british presidency will take this course with restraint and clarity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the tourism landscape has changed massively in recent years, also for the european area. competition is increasing with cheap offers, traditional holiday periods and trends are shifting, and new trends are emerging. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. tourism is still highly dependent on weather and weather conditions in many places. so while some areas may have suffered from the continuous rainfall this year, wellness and urban tourism may well have benefited from the bad weather. in order to maintain europe's attractiveness as a holiday destination, we need high-quality products, as is already largely the case in the wellness sector, but also more alternatives to the increasingly frequent periods of bad weather. it is certainly worthwhile to develop new services such as 'the guest as an environmentalist in a nature reserve', combined services for cyclists or for cultural tourists. the overall aim of tourism is to exploit the natural landscapes of europe and the cultural identity of these european landscapes for tourism purposes, while at the same time protecting both of these factors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. it is good that the european union is addressing the issue of tourism in this excellent report, highlighting the outstanding importance of tourism for growth and employment. europe is the world's most important travel destination. tourism in europe as an industry provides over 7 million direct jobs and is also one of the economic sectors with the greatest potential for new jobs. the tourism industry is an economic sector in which the direct provision of services is mainly carried out by employees and which, in this sense, represents only a minor part of an entrepreneurial activity. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. there are now regions in europe where workers are being brought in from far away because the local people no longer feel able to provide their services on the terms offered. the european union also has a role to play in this respect. it is gratifying that the question of a coordinated holiday scheme, a european observation of this holiday scheme, has also been included in this report, as has been repeatedly stressed by mr leichtfried. there should be meaningful coordination of national and regional holiday arrangements by the european union. we know what that would mean for the strain on our infrastructure, for the deals that could be made. the rapporteur has put forward a very good idea which deserves our full support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. tourism is a real growth industry for large parts of europe and above all an industry where there are still workers and not just machines. tourism is therefore an integral part of our lisbon strategy. we do not give up hope that action will be taken in this area, not just talk. one of the tasks which i would like to put to the commission is a key concern of my country, austria, which is known to be a tourist country in summer and in winter. we see the same thing year after year, half year after half year, namely that for a few weeks the quarters are full, the streets are choked with traffic. a few weeks later, things would be much easier if there were still tourists in the country. a better coordination of national and regional holiday arrangements and, above all, of the major company holidays in your country, mr vice-president, in the netherlands and belgium, could have a great impact here in central europe and offer real relief and new opportunities, especially for tourism. what we need in this context is not a dictate from above, not a dictate from brussels! but we have heard, and we have discussed it in the context of the european constitution, that the method of coordination, if it is used seriously and done well, can achieve a great deal. in this context, commissioner, we can only wish you good luck and hope that we will soon have better coordinated holiday arrangements in europe for the growth of the industry and the welfare of tourists.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. sustainability concerns all of us. sustainability is not only an ecological issue, of course, but also an economic one. we must ensure that companies can survive, and this is not just about taxation, but also about giving companies the opportunity to invest in the future, so that a sustainable offer can be created here that can also be perceived in global competition. i therefore welcome the initiative of mr mulder, who is particularly interested in financing small and mediumsized enterprises, and the european investment fund, to provide guarantees, equity loans and guarantees in the future, in order to ensure that the risk and investment capital of these enterprises is secured in the long term in the tourism sector. one of the biggest problems in the tourism sector is negative equity capital, which leads to the bankruptcy of many businesses and the loss of many jobs. we shall have the basel ii debate shortly. the debate on basel ii is a matter of survival for tourism, because ultimately the survival of any business is the survival of its liquidity. i therefore ask the commissioner to continue his commitment, particularly in the programme for small and mediumsized enterprises. he has already done exemplary work here, and if we stick to it, we can do the best for tourism.
i wonder if the mode 4 regulation also includes the assessing of security risk in the future according to the same standards. will the council present a definition of what constitutes a security risk?
i agree with what mr newton dunn said. i am also disappointed by the lack of substance in the answer you have given us. the british presidency is well aware of the difficulties in combating organised crime. we therefore urgently need action to be taken. after all, crime is international, and we must therefore fight international terrorism and international crime in a global way.
mr president of the council! i would also like to ask a question on this. we have all seen in the past year that there are still serious abuses in turkey, particularly in relation to human rights and women's rights. i therefore ask the presidency of the council: is the presidency prepared to discuss in future not only full membership but also another form of membership or association, such as a privileged partnership?
when you compare the conditions of accession of turkey with those of croatia, do you not see any differences in the treatment of these two countries? it is totally unfair to put a single condition on croatia and thus suspend the negotiations. if you look at the problems we have in turkey with human rights and what has happened in the past, what is being offered here is an injustice that is crying out to heaven. i would ask you to respect the rules of the european union and to apply the same standards.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission is not on behalf of the committee on budgets, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report and thank her for including some of the main points of the committee on budgets in the compromise amendments. as the rapporteur and the commissioner have already said, we are at a stage where such reports are extremely important. on the one hand, there is enlargement, which the european school system has obviously not yet mastered. there is a flood of complaints from parents about how this school system has not managed the expected expansion to 10 new countries. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. you will have the support of parliament. secondly, of course this house attaches great importance to the fact that in the supreme council the person who pays has a little more say than a vote of 26. that is clearly stated in the report. we agree on this too. we are paying 57% of the budget, the member states 22% and that is not in any way related to the right to vote. another challenge is that heads of state and government do not tire of inventing new agencies. the commission is not entirely innocent of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is why it is important to ask the right questions and to seek the right answers. finally, on the question of small schools: here we will have to - and it was therefore important for us to prepare for a certain degree of budgetary decentralisation - proceed differently according to regional aspects. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. listening to the debate, you're tempted to ask some basic questions. 127 million euros of taxpayers' money for whom? why would you do that? is it not true that europe has already developed to the point where many civil servants stay in one place for a very long time - if not their entire professional career? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is it not also true that, in reality, if it were a question of cost accounting, these additional costs would have to be taken into account from the outset when agencies are relocated and relocated? but you don't. this is further covered up in opacity. there is a reason why these reports are written two years apart. schools are not doing so well! the fundamental question is whether this system, which had a legal basis 20, 30, 40 years ago, can be maintained. every company that sends employees abroad knows that. there are various other schools: german schools, english schools, un schools. why do we have this luxury? is it really necessary?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. are the european schools the flagship of the european education system? i'm not going to. what is their place in the pisa study? do they meet the quality objectives? i'm not going to. are the shortcomings purely a matter of budget? i'm not going to. the list of shortcomings is getting longer, the complaints of parents and pupils are getting more. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i'd like to use my time to give voice to letters of complaint from parents and students. the overcrowding of european schools is complained about. in brussels we have 8600 pupils this year, although only 7300 pupils are planned. the classes are too big. high achievers are hardly challenged or promoted. in the second school year after the great enlargement, there is still no provision for learning the languages of the new member states. the supply of languages is rapidly decreasing as the student focuses on science subjects. the role of the so-called educational consultants remains unclear. the european schools lack an adequate administrative culture. letters are not answered. european schools and their boards need more effective disciplinary supervision. the member states' supervision is often ineffective and european supervision is too weak. in may the commission received a petition from parents of the german-speaking section of woluwe expressing their concern and raising the fundamental question of whether a fourth german-speaking section will be established in brussels at all and whether there will be a forced transfer of the german section of woluwe to laeken. commissioner, questions about questions, not just questions about the money. i'm asking you to tell us how you're dealing with these parental concerns.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe has become the most powerful trading area in the world, with almost 500 million people living here. that is why a strategy such as the one we are discussing today is of particular importance. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. i would like to refer in particular to energy policy. i believe that we have a region of the future, and one of the most important for us, with the baltic region. norway, with its oil and gas reserves, or iceland with its geothermal energy and renewable energy - countries which are our role models in this respect - offer us a great opportunity to develop common strategies in the energy policy of this area in the future. i think that this is one of the priorities for the future, when you look at where energy prices, oil and gas prices are today. but this area will also play a very special role for us in the future, particularly in the field of energy security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the development of broadband technology, access to the internet and information for the general public - these tasks will play a major role in the future, particularly in remote areas. the main objective of crossborder cooperation is to bring together small and mediumsized enterprises in the economy. if we remember that we have to create jobs, that we have to try to increase economic prosperity in these areas, it is particularly important that we give special encouragement to small and mediumsized enterprises and, above all, to crossborder cooperation. i have already come to a very important subject: the wto and russia. i believe that it is crucial, especially for the negotiations in hong kong, that we consider a common strategy with russia in global legislation. i believe that this dimension is particularly important for us in trade relations, and the further development of the wto structures will be of corresponding importance for europe. it is in this region that there is a very interesting debate about how we can jointly respond to the new situations in the global context, and i believe that this is the real challenge for europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. tourism has many effects, that is undeniable. as a tyrolean, i know what i am talking about, because today tyrol is one of the most tourist-intensive regions in the world. tourism is the fastest growing economic sector, employing millions of people today. it has the potential to create stable incomes and stable economic conditions in developing countries. it is important, however, that we create the necessary legal framework to eliminate the dangers and risks posed by tourism. the most important thing is to secure the foundations for tourism development in the tourist destinations in the long term. we must protect our hosts - this is stated in paragraph 35 of the motion for a resolution, which also refers to the wto code of ethics. this means that tourists must respect their hosts as such and not destroy the structures they have grown by their behaviour. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we should continue the european programmes which provide financial support for the fight against these imbalances. secondly, we must protect nature in tourist destinations. it is not just a question of preventing real estate speculation, as pointed out in paragraph 40 of the report. our lifestyle is destroying the natural resources of these countries. and let's remember that we have much higher water and energy consumption than these countries. our local behaviour is also, of course, an export of our way of life. the amount of waste is also increasing dramatically. this can lead to the destruction of natural spaces and over-exploitation. sustainable tourism concepts must be built upon from the outset. it is only under these conditions that tourism can have its full positive effect, i.e. create jobs and wealth, promote economic development and, above all, promote and stimulate demographic and social life. it can contribute to international understanding, and we need that today in a world that is unfortunately becoming more and more uncertain! i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. the aim of eliminating inequalities between men and women was already defined in the 1957 treaties of rome. much has been achieved since then, thanks in large part to a series of women's health programmes in the 1990s, but much remains to be done. the proportion of women in health professions is generally very high - 78% in austria, for example - but it is negligible in highly prestigious and well-paid specialisations and in the senior administrative sector. this is contrary to the so-called 'feminisation of age', because up to the age of about 45 the proportion of men in the population is predominant, followed by that of women. it is therefore essential that more attention be paid to women's specific problems. a further step has been taken by some member states to set up nationwide screening programmes for the early detection of breast cancer in women aged 50-69 and it is certainly important that as the report suggests others are encouraged to implement these same measures. but we should be concerned that breast cancer is the leading cause of death between the ages of 35 and 55. we therefore need to raise awareness of the risk in this age group and adapt screening programmes accordingly.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to join in the congratulations that were given to the rapporteur, mr john bowis, this morning, wholeheartedly and with full conviction. i am sure that this is not a surprise to him; he has presented a very balanced and very progressive report on an important subject, and i hope that it will find a large majority in this house. the issue of critical and neglected diseases in developing countries is one that has a strong human rights context. the right to health, the right to access to medicines is first and foremost a social issue, because neglected diseases affect the developing countries first and foremost, and there, of course, the poorest of the poor. i therefore think it is good that we find in the bowi report a clear context for other policy issues, such as the deleveraging of the poorest countries in the world. if 40% of the gross domestic product of these countries is still spent on debt service, we can still adopt resolutions here, but the situation, the health system in the countries concerned, will not change. i also find it very welcome that a large part of the bowie report is devoted to the problem of hiv/aids, and as usual in a very, very progressive way. we cannot get tired of repeating that prevention is the most important step in the fight against hiv/aids, and when the bowis report says that there were again extremely high infection rates for the first time in 2004, this is a sign of a political situation that we have been criticising here in this parliament for a long time: there is too little funding, too little support - here the criticism is directed mainly at the bush administration of the united states - that this prevention could actually be implemented. i think that to be dogmatic and to go along with the principle without seeing the reality in the developing countries is the wrong way to go. i thank john bowis for showing, together with the european parliament and the european commission, that the european union is taking a different path. all the statements, whether from the ngo doctors without borders or the world health organization, underline one point: we will not solve the problem by relying on market forces, but we will only get a handle on this problem if there is massive public investment and a stronger role for the public sector, both in the european countries and in the developing countries concerned. this is a point which, in my view, is heard too seldom; very often, however, we hear the call for less public intervention. if we are serious about solving this problem, we need a commitment, and i was very pleased that the commissioner spoke today of thinking about concrete support measures, including investment in basic research.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there's a global megatrend: people want to live longer and healthier. this 'healthy living longer' is a subject of particular concern to us in the european union. the european parliament has decided by an overwhelming majority to double the research budget for the seventh research framework programme. i hope that the council will follow our decision and allow us to put this seventh research framework programme into effect as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should therefore encourage local production in small and mediumsized enterprises, we should encourage small traders who really know the needs and desires of the local population, and we should also focus on services in this area, such as - as has already been said here today - water supply: we should encourage small enterprises which are responsible for the local regional water supply and which have the appropriate concepts for the desired clean drinking water. in development aid we should try to give guarantees, support, loans to entrepreneurs who are willing to respond to the needs of the local population, and to do so in coordination with a global context. i believe that these funds would be well used and i would ask the commissioner to contact commissioner verheugen as well, because such an initiative should certainly be the focus.
the commission has already done so. paul rübig said that people want to live longer and healthier. the people in the developing countries we are talking about here want to be allowed to live. and they want to live with dignity. you might say poor, sick, unemployed, hopeless. this is a combination of terms which very often overlap in these countries. for me, this report is an eye-opening, awareness-raising, screaming, confronting report about diseases that we can't even properly pronounce, let alone know how many millions of people are suffering from them. as soon as the bird flu came, we said that we in europe were prepared for it. are we prepared in europe for an outbreak of these diseases? i'm not sure. are we prepared and willing to do everything we can to help people in their countries to fight these diseases? not enough. i would therefore like to make three suggestions. firstly, we decided under the luxembourg presidency to increase development aid in europe to 0.7%. i think it is urgent that we develop a concept with the member states of how much of this is spent on disease control and the health sector, so that poverty, work and health are taken into account. secondly, we should increase research expenditure in europe on this. thirdly, i would ask you to invite all the organisations - and i am one of them - which receive eu development funding to come together for a conference to discuss how we can work together more effectively in this field in developing countries.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the legal affairs committee welcomes the compromise reached by the rapporteur. the author of the opinion supports most of the objectives and the necessary updating of the provisions, which ultimately also reflect the significant progress in risk assessment and management techniques in financial services. the commission also proposes amendments which may help to simplify the system of own funds requirements. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. many of these deletions are also recommended for the national supervisory bodies. the author of the opinion also considers that article 47 (2) of the ec treaty was very rightly chosen as the legal basis for this proposal. the principle of subsidiarity is respected, since the directive is the most appropriate instrument for achieving the objective pursued. the principle of proportionality is also respected, since the directive is limited to what is strictly necessary. i would like to make a few comments on comitology from the point of view of the legal affairs committee, but also from the point of view of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on which i shall comment later. as financial markets and banks are undergoing rapid change and new products and product combinations are constantly being developed, banking and supervisory law must also be open to further development. basel ii must not degenerate into a self-service framework for financial instruments, but must always have creditors', investors' and consumers' protection in mind. but the dialogue between legislators and supervisors with banks at both national and european level, as demonstrated in the lamfalussy procedure, can also contribute to functional supervision. i will continue on that point later.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the cooperation he has shown here. the most important issues for social democracy were taken into account. we are committed to internationally coordinated and uniform supervision of banks within the union, in particular the regulatory capital of banks must be more closely aligned with business risks. this is the only way to increase the security of savers and protect their savings against bank failures. modern banks are the managers and accountants of households' assets, and they are also advisers and intermediaries on the financial markets. their competitiveness is a prerequisite for economically efficient financing and capital investment. in this financing, infrastructure, housing, local authorities, the energy sector and, last but not least, small and mediumsized enterprises play an important role in the further development of the union. the risk weight for these loans and the related cost of equity for banks and the interest costs for borrowers are objective in basel ii. the adoption of my amendments to facilitate retail lending to smes or the inclusion of local authorities' liability in the calculation of the risk weight round off this picture. basel ii should therefore not lead to a shortage or increase in the cost of funding. the banks also have economic responsibilities and basel ii must not be used as an excuse to the detriment or expense of borrowers. basel ii also aims to create a level playing field between large banking groups and regional savings banks and credit unions. i have therefore advocated the highest possible objectivity in the treatment of so-called interbank loans. lastly, i would like to point out the dual responsibility of the national supervisory authorities, both in examining the refined risk measurement methods of banks and in assisting banks operating across borders in cooperation between home and host country supervision. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament's demand for information and transparency rules for basel ii is actually a matter of course for modern legislation. this should also be taken into account in the recall law. we want a guarantee from the council that a solid agreement will be reached within two years at the latest, so that parliament can also exercise its democratic rights and duties.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. basel ii is a matter of survival for many smes. the concerns are great, much has been discussed. i think the rapporteur should be given full credit. a lot has been done here. however, one aspect in the short time available to me is that whether we really achieve fair conditions of competition between the lenders and then also between the borrowers will be seen in the votes that will be taken here. fortunately, we're only in the first reading. i think that amendment no 140, which seeks to add even more transparency by requiring credit institutions to disclose their rating decisions in writing to smes and other companies that have applied for loans in an understandable way, will be very essential in order to avoid further distortions of the market. the result of this, whether we get the right level of transparency or over-regulation, will be seen. it would be nice if we could set a time frame for this, at least in the second reading. the sunset clause has been said, and i would certainly agree with it, and i hope that mr radwan will get the report through in such a way that he can actually maintain the balance that is being sought.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would first like to say to the commission that the work is now beginning. mr radwan has presented an excellent dossier. but now it is up to commissioner verheugen to look at how best to implement this directive in europe in order to prevent bankruptcies and encourage start-ups where possible. and i would like to give commissioner kovács as a homework assignment to think about how to increase in the future low-value depreciation in companies. in america, for example, there are much higher rates and how to handle loss carry-overs and carry-overs in companies. the commission should also intervene here in a way that shapes competition, because this basel ii project is supposed to be a rationalization and a reform that saves us costs and does not introduce a new cost block into this process. i therefore recommend benchmarking and best practice in this area as well.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, we have had a very intensive discussion on this matter in the committee on industry, research and energy, because it is also a question of the competitiveness of european industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the financial interests of the community are respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the cost of going public, of doing so and of trying to ensure the necessary transparency is enormous, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore advocate that the limitation of liability be discussed with the insurers so that the auditors can also meet the corresponding responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i thank the rapporteur for his report and for his clear position. parliament is speaking today out of its deepest responsibility to defend human rights. it is not just any right that is at stake here, but the right to asylum, perhaps the oldest human right in human history, a right that goes back to the law of the land and was sacred to the oldest cultures of mankind. we must look in this mirror of history when we examine these decisions. it does not speak for us and it does not speak for the courage and strength to defend the dignity of the human being when it is threatened by fears and public sentiment. the council shall consult parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is a democratic union, a democratic union of the peoples of europe, a union of peoples, a union of peoples. what has happened to europe? how is it possible that fundamental rights are being infringed without parliament's consent? the council is consulting us, but the council is not here! the council wants to hear parliament, but it is not even there! but why? the council will only consult us after it has already reached an agreement, after it has already reached agreement. there is no longer any sense among the heads of government that it is against our culture for interior and police ministers to make their own laws, to interfere with fundamental rights, to make the most difficult balances between security and human rights without a parliament. and then we are being heard, but the council is not present. the aim of this council initiative is to make europe inaccessible to refugees, to erode the right of asylum and to eliminate it in essence. that's the situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. denmark, sweden and switzerland have also been able to prevent countless people who would never have been entitled to asylum from making a risky journey by adopting a consistent asylum policy, thus dealing a serious blow to the smuggling gangs. accelerated procedures and rigorous expulsions have reduced the flood of asylum applications by up to 50%, saving millions on pointless procedures. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the union. on the one hand, it puts a brake on the use of the social system. on the other hand, it made the procedures for genuine refugees more humane and allowed for intensive integration with compulsory courses in language, customs and traditions, which are essential for starting over in the new home. if we want to destroy the smuggling industry in europe which is causing suffering and untold misery, if we want to prevent asylum seekers from descending into criminal territory and if we want to help those refugees who are not coming to us for purely economic reasons, there can simply no longer be a request for asylum without a genuine reason for asylum. i have no doubt that this report is a step in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we can all agree that wine is one of the most elegant products of agriculture. some 265 million hectolitres of wine are produced worldwide each year, two thirds of which are produced in europe. the eu-us wine trade agreement was the first agreement to secure this important eu market. the aim of this treaty is to remove the legal uncertainty which has characterized this trade for many years and to benefit producers on both sides of the atlantic. the conclusion of this first agreement is intended to create the conditions for future close cooperation with the usa in the wine sector and to protect designations of origin in the eu. commissioner, you yourself said that this agreement is an important first step and that it still has shortcomings. i am very grateful to you for that statement, and my colleagues have seen it too. the european union is accepting for the first time the principle of full mutual recognition of oenological practices, which has never been the case in the eu before. the european member states have always advocated the existence of an international code of practice on the definition of wine and the methods of its production. i therefore believe that this procedure calls into question the very existence of the international organization oiv. the compromise reached in this agreement goes too far in terms of the protection of european appellations of origin. this concerns all regions whose quality systems are based on designations of origin or traditional terms. it is quite clear that we need a trade agreement with the united states, but we need an agreement with clear legal provisions which do not undermine existing european law and conditions and which further safeguards the future of our european quality wines. a second round of negotiations will take place 90 days after the entry into force of the first agreement. i believe that this approach is absolutely right, important and necessary, and i hope that decisions will then be taken which will enable us to retract the criticisms we have made today. good day to you, commissioner.
in writing. the usefulness of the project to store connection data throughout the eu is highly questionable. the round-the-clock monitoring of all telephone calls, internet and text messages without any concrete suspicion cannot be justified by the possibility that, with a little luck, a terrorist attack might be solved at some point - perhaps. this accumulates an unimaginable wealth of data, which in the event of an emergency, the revised investigator must comb through meticulously. the lack of a mature definition of what is needed to achieve efficient and successful cooperation results in a list that is too long and leaves a lot of room for interpretation. the practical implementation is also not sufficiently covered. the project will be particularly hard on small and medium-sized enterprises, which are unable to cope with the storage obligation in terms of organisation and finances. the uncertainty surrounding the financing of the cost reimbursement of industry by the individual member states, estimated at several hundred million euros, is also a matter of concern. the draft is questionable in terms of the rule of law, may even contradict various constitutions and is contrary to the eu's stated objective of an area of freedom. it is also worrying that in order to prevent the radicalisation of young people, the electronic media should be controlled and censored, while at the same time all are seriously assured that the freedom of the press and media will not be affected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a point for the record of today's sitting, namely that the written declaration on rheumatic diseases has already passed the two-thirds majority today. more than 367 signatures have already been received, 378 as of noon today. in this written declaration, which i co-initiated, the commission and the council are invited to include rheumatic diseases among the explicit priorities in the eu's seventh framework programme for research. i ask you to take note of this sensational result today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, commissioner hübner, for your fact-finding missions to the regions of the union. i would like to make a general comment on the report, namely that there can be no more europe for less money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the report itself contains the right and important demands for the extension of economic and social cohesion by the factor of territorial cohesion. the eu's citizens should have access to the best possible state and political foundations to ensure their success. what can the union do? firstly, it must provide a framework for the balanced economic, social and territorial development of the whole of the community. secondly, the eu's sectoral policies must therefore complement this territorial component, in order to give it increased european added value. thirdly, the diversity of the community must be promoted and the specific interests, strengths and weaknesses of the various regions must be supported in the spirit of a polycentric regional policy. such a holistic approach to eu policies, reinforced by the territorial component and respecting subsidiarity, will enable us to take the union a significant step forward towards a union for all its citizens. particular attention should be paid to disadvantaged regions such as rural and mountainous areas. for these we need to develop appropriate indicators which better reflect the specific disadvantages. the current models and calculation methods, such as gdp per capita, are insufficient in this respect. the simplicity and practicality of community policies must also be given greater importance if they are to be effectively implemented and applied in all regions of the eu. the principle of 'less is more' is particularly true here.
the commission has already done so. before the appetizers, there's often the amuse-gueule. only that this greeting from the kitchen did not taste good to us because it was conveyed through the media. but we want a juicy amuse-gueule, not a dry paper. we'll have to look at what you've delivered today in detail. i think that the philosophy you have put forward is fully supported by us. we who are interested in the fact that there is no reduction of social and economic standards are also interested in the fact that there is only a minimum of bureaucracy, that the regulations are as simple as possible that they are readable - perhaps not so much for the population, but at least for the experts, which is not the case today. we shall also discuss this with the national parliamentarians. i have just heard that cosac will be meeting in early october and that will be an issue there. i have a specific question, commissioner: are you prepared to make available to this parliament all the documents which led to the drawing up of this list, so that we can understand your motivation and your considerations and then we can make our own considerations when we give our opinion on it?
the commission has already done so. is it not true that in greece the last government has accumulated a huge debt potential and therefore now has problems in complying with the stability pact?
madam president, commissioner, you yourself have said that the czech republic's request relates to 'genuine olmütz quarry'. i think that's right, too. it would then also be clear - especially since 'olmütz quargel' is also produced in other member states - that these are simply generic names. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not affect trade between member states.
the commission has already done so. is it not more in keeping with the reality that there are large and small enterprises that have emerged from tradition? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the agricultural levy. i would just like to point out that i come from a member state with a small structure. nevertheless, austria wanted this modulation, this graduated plan, as early as 1999. but unfortunately it did not pass because britain and before that the federal republic of germany were against it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall begin, as our colleague mr jarzembowski has done, with a comment on the rules of procedure. i have been in this house for ten years now and i still do not know exactly who really does the scheduling of our plenary sessions. but they must be opponents of the european parliament. this week and the debate tonight are typical examples of this. everything that the european parliament does not really have a say in - at least nothing binding - is tabled and discussed in prime time, and the few legislative acts that are scheduled for this - by the way, completely superfluous - twelfth plenary session in strasbourg - are hidden in the night session. (applause from the centre) in this situation, we should not be surprised if people in europe take us less and less seriously. keyword: voter turnout in the last european elections i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are making a constructive contribution with this text to the much-vaunted level playing field for the various modes of transport in europe. because railways in direct competition with direct competitors require similar conditions, it was necessary and right to give preference to the rail analogue now, following the night boarding legislation for air traffic. the commission has presented a text which - i say this with caution - could be improved upon, and we have made some reasonable changes to it, some of which are very fundamental. firstly - and this was probably the key change - we have included all transport, not just international transport, under this new system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. secondly, we have paid particular attention to the provision and demand of proper information on passenger rights. what good is it if consumers do not know what rights they really have? thirdly - and i think this is not only very important, as one of my predecessors said, but also quite successful - we have made a reasonable coordination of the codif regulations with this text, and only supplemented them in a specific way. this was a concrete case of subsidiarity applied and in this sense also a kind of accompanying action to the commission's welcome action under the slogan of better regulation or, in good english, a de-cluttering of the often too full-bodied european legislation. finally, a 'thank you' to the rapporteur, mr dirk sterckx; it was pleasant and constructive to work with him. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the rapporteurs on their competent work. i would like to focus on two dossiers in the context of this so-called - and i say deliberately 'so-called' - third package: on the one hand, the directive on the certification of train staff and, on the other, the directive on liberalisation. first of all, i should like to say to my friend gilles savary that it is of particular importance that this proposal for a directive be adopted. i think this is actually part of the second railway package and, given the liberalization of rail freight transport, it is urgent to create harmonised european conditions for train drivers and all train staff involved. this directive can also make an important contribution to the sustainable improvement of safety and its implementation as soon as possible is desirable. i am very reserved about the content of mr jarzembowski's report, as he probably knows, and i still believe that we are on the wrong track here. i am not opposed to this in principle, but it is easy to say that we do not yet know anything positive about the effects of liberalization - neither on safety, nor on quality, nor on the social situation of the staff. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work. we must also take account of the negative experience of those countries which have already done so! if parliament were to take this course tomorrow, it would be on the path already described by a late austrian cabaret performer. he said, "i don't know where i'm going, but i'll get there fast". i would like to say to mr jarzembowski and mr rack that this delay in adopting legislative acts is not the smartest thing this parliament can do.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the turkish prime minister erdoğan has done a great deal for his country, including the changes in the country towards the european union. but he has done his country a disservice by making this unacceptable unilateral declaration in parallel with the signing of the ankara agreement. the european union is not only a member of the european union but also a member of the european union. i believe, however, that it is up to us in the european union to show turkey what it means to think and act in a european way, and to act with confidence and consistency. that is why i am convinced that the european union must start negotiations on 3 october. why would you do that? firstly, it would be irresponsible and bad for europe if we were to interrupt the reform process taking place in turkey - albeit with the obstacles and problems to which mr kasoulides rightly refers. on the contrary, we must encourage it. secondly, we must give all groups in turkey - and in particular the large minorities such as the kurds - the chance and the opportunity to benefit from the cultural expression and political participation in this reform process. thirdly, we must ensure that turkey, as a recognized candidate for accession to the european union, also improves its relations with all its neighbours, in particular, of course, with armenia, in a similar way, also by recognizing its own history and the misdeeds of its own history. fourthly, it is absolutely essential that we also support the turkish-speaking population in cyprus. we are right to talk a lot about the greek-speaking majority in cyprus. but let us not forget that it was the turkish minority in cyprus that said a clear yes to reunification, that it was the turkish minority that said a clear yes to europe. let us not forget that europe has not yet fulfilled its obligations and responsibilities towards this minority, for example in terms of trade and financial support. for all these reasons, we should be consistent in our position and say a clear yes to the opening of negotiations. it's going to be a difficult process. there will be many, many problems to solve. but we must ensure that turkey continues the reform process. if turkey can do that, it can and should become a member of the european union. only if she can't do that, then we'll have to look for other circumstances. mr poettering, just to be clear and not to cause any misunderstanding: we in this group hope that negotiations with turkey and croatia will be able to begin on 3 october. it would be a great signal forward. we do not want to play turkey against croatia and croatia against turkey. both countries deserve to start negotiating. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but let us take a common path with these two countries towards the future of our continent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate has raised the question of how one can act so irresponsibly. what have decision-makers been promising here all along? without nice, there will be no enlargement by ten, and without the eu constitution, there will be no further enlargement. so what do we do now? we're preparing the way for turkey! i am convinced that the eu will be in the coffin of history if this is actually implemented. we will not have a chance to continue the european union project in any meaningful way as it is intended. i think it is a great failure, a betrayal of the political elite - especially in its responsibility towards young people - if we continue this process. that's why today is symbolic. another coffin in the hall! you are about to ruin the european project! the european parliament has already made a number of recommendations to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to take them into account. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if 70% of europeans and 80% of my austrian compatriots are against turkey's accession, this is understandable in view of the developments. if these tax-free people are called racists in this house, by mr cohn-bendit in particular, i consider that to be a scandal of the first order in democratic politics. the signing of the protocol on the customs union was intended as a recognition of cyprus, where ankara could have saved face and still fulfilled an essential condition for the possible opening of negotiations. the inadvertent insertion of the supplementary declaration, which rigorously refused recognition through the back door, and the new, toothless compromise are precarious in several respects. on the one hand, the turkish-cypriot solution has not gone any further, and on the other hand, any concessions will lead to turkey dictating terms to us, which is absolutely unacceptable. in addition, this demonstrates the arrogant attitude of turkey, which has already been demonstrated on several occasions, demanding that the eu strictly observe its commitments and seeking to achieve this by means of threats, while not feeling itself bound by any treaties or agreements. this is not the right way for turkey to go to europe. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. why is there such outrage about turkey's attitude towards cyprus? because we're distracting ourselves from ourselves, because the turks are putting their finger in an open wound. on 1 may 2004 the european union should have taken over the guarantee of peace on the mediterranean island, but we did not. none of the promises were kept. we have not brought northern cyprus out of isolation, nor have we used the promised 259 million euros to rebuild the economy. it is not only the republic of cyprus that turkey must recognise. we must finally recognize the turkish cypriots in this republic as people with equal rights. the young people of northern cyprus are not even allowed to participate in international sporting events, let alone be welcome in our parliament as members or observers. if we say in the ankara agreement that we want to open all ports and airports to each other, then this must also apply to the port of famagusta and ercan airport. equal rights for all! or are turks second-class people?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. turkey is not making it easy for meps. we must ask ourselves: what is the case? what about cyprus? the indirect recognition by the extension of the customs agreement is there on the one hand, but at the same time it is unilaterally declared that cyprus is not being recognised. this is a unique case in the history of the opening of accession negotiations. it is understandable that turkey should take this position, but we as parliamentarians must not tolerate this attitude of the pressure group. secondly, i have not yet been convinced that turkey meets the political criteria. on paper maybe, but not in reality. authors who speak out against the kurdish and armenian problems are dragged before the kadi and put on trial. lawyers who want to defend the human rights of the kurds are prevented from exercising their mandate. i do not want to discuss women's issues here, they are far from european standards. the eu has committed itself to negotiations with turkey because it hopes to make progress on the human rights issue. but the point is, we're doing double standards here. we are treating turkey much more tolerantly than, for example, croatia, which is making much more progress on this issue and is implementing the action plan as set out by the european council's task force. the eurling report attempts to square the circle. if the outcome of the negotiations is not fixed here in some form, if these minimum requirements, these two additional requests put forward by the epp-ed, are not met by the european parliament, then i am in favour of rejecting this report as a whole, in order to send a signal to the council before 3 october. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. turkey is also an extremely important country for europe. however, we should be aware that even a country of this size, and even a candidate country, must meet certain criteria. we should be aware that the union's fundamental values are at stake here. the fact that the conference in istanbul last week on the past of the armenian genocide was rejected by the supreme court, i think, is very sobering and shows us that fundamental rights are probably not being respected in turkey. that is why i voted against this resolution, and i think we would all be well advised to insist on the observance of our basic values in the union and to apply the same conditions to this country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that we were right to liberalize freight transport with the second railway package. but it would be an additional burden and actually an interference with the mechanisms of market economy regulation if we were to introduce such provisions as the commission has just proposed. we must either release the railway companies into free market conditions or we must regulate them. we have a decision to make here. it would therefore be sensible to refer the whole report back to committee.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i seem to have a monopoly today. but i would like to stress in this report that the territorial component must increase european added value, otherwise it is not justified that we are pumping so much money into the regions. at the same time, however, it is necessary to ensure that the diversity of regional development is maintained and even promoted. i would like to make a special plea here for the regional authorities to be supported in their role in meeting the needs of the people on the ground.
in writing. globalisation, enlargement and demographic change are not stopping rural areas either. on the contrary, they are particularly affected by the challenges of the 21st century. many tasks cannot be solved by municipalities alone, which is why cooperation with other municipalities and the participation and involvement of citizens are among the basic principles of rural development. maintaining the quality of life in rural areas and maintaining ties with home are essential to overcoming rural flight. to achieve this, economic attractiveness with sustainable employment opportunities is as important as conserving land, preserving the environment, raising local awareness and providing adequate infrastructure. various village competitions and town partnerships have proved to be a catalyst for this habitat in which, for example, two thirds of all austrians live . the rural areas cannot be maintained by agricultural subsidies alone. the eu's support policy has so far had little employment-creating effect, but on the contrary has partially accelerated emigration: despite high support, many farms are closing and not all of the descendants on the farm can earn their living. if we want to ensure a vital rural area, we must especially strengthen eco-businesses and give smaller farms a better chance of survival. in no case should subsidies for less-favoured areas - which in austria, for example, account for 71% of the agricultural area - be reduced, as this would force the extinction of entire regions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the member states must meet their financial commitments and adopt the financial perspective as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but at the same time, we must ask these regions to use these funds wisely, especially for education and infrastructure, so that taxpayers' money is used fairly by our fellow europeans.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to begin by saying that we greatly appreciate the efficient and committed way in which you, commissioner piebalgs, are taking energy policy forward. i am very glad that you have supported and emphasized this again in the last few days. i am also very pleased that the presidency has made some commitments here on the question of energy policy. however, in the view of our group, the commission or the president of the commission has said a little too little on this subject, because - as minister alexander has also pointed out - we are talking about very opaque markets, if one can even speak of a market. on the other hand, a clear political language of the european union should be spoken in all areas - from foreign policy to transport policy, from agricultural policy to trade policy. this is also true - of course not only - particularly for energy policy. i was very pleased with your statement today because it is a small step forward compared to what we have discussed so far. you said that at the committee this morning. i am not envious of the oil companies or their shareholders for their huge profits, but i believe that a greater degree of social responsibility is needed for our common society and for the future of the companies themselves. it must be seen that only a small part of these profits can be used to increase investment in our own interests, for example in the blending of biofuels, as is now the case in some countries, and certainly also in research and development in alternative energies. commissioner, you said this morning that you knew that only peanuts were being distributed. i hope that after your conversation, which is announced here, there will be at least some more peanuts. if you are commissioner for a longer period, perhaps in time there will even be a cake, an energy cake, which can be served to the european citizens. i wish you luck and strength, and tell the heads of the big oil companies that here in parliament they are expected to do something for our common society.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a very unsatisfactory situation with the oil price at the moment. on the one hand, consumers pay very high prices, and on the other hand, there are the so-called windfall profits, not only in the oil sector but also in other energy sectors. i think it is a responsibility to discuss what the companies can do with these windfall profits, and, above all, what the states that benefit most from them can do with these taxes. the first issue must be that this money is not being invested in other areas. perhaps the commission should draw up an action plan on the question of how firms, and in particular national governments, could best use the money that is being added to the coffers. in some circumstances, a kind of benchmarking and best practice project could be launched so that these funds are used for research and development, efficiency measures, tax relief not on consumption, but in the area of investment on farm settlements and for the cip programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i think we could gather examples here of how best to deal with this in the nation states and perhaps also at the international level. the second big point is this: currently, invoicing is in dollars. that may be a good thing for us at the moment. but it can also turn the other way, which is if prices continue to rise and the dollar moves in the other direction. so perhaps for the non-opec countries, we should consider whether we could create a euro area of our own in the energy sector or even incentives to form a euro area, because that also brings a certain degree of stability and independence. the last point: for hedge funds, we need equity rules, liability requirements that are respected and, ultimately, transparency to prevent unnecessary speculation in the market in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that in a few days' time the negotiations with croatia will actually begin. this is a great step forward for the british presidency. how long do you expect to negotiate accession with belgrade?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what we are seeing in the textile sector now is the beginning of a development, or the emergence of a development which has been going on for a long time and which will accelerate and intensify. we are faced with the fact that our old images and ideas of a future world trade no longer apply. it has always been assumed that we in europe would be doing high tech and the others would be supplying us with cheap raw materials and covering basic needs, so to speak. this was a strategy that did not work, because the development in china, for example, in textiles, has advanced much faster. if it is said that we have a respite now, through the agreement, through the memorandum of understanding, then it is really nothing more than a respite and will at best slow down the development somewhat, but it will not solve the underlying problems. europe's rate of adaptation is not that high. i also note that european interests are divided on this issue, from the consumer to the trader and the politicians. the consumer, the consumer wants cheap t-shirts. at the same time, there is a growing group in europe that supports campaigns like clean clothes, which promotes products that have been produced under fairer conditions. the population wants ethical standards in production, they also want ecological standards in production. but at the same time, everybody wants to have these low-cost products. it's the same with the dealers. i would like to ask you a question, commissioner. if you said that you believed the commission had acted prudently, how is it that you could ignore the fact that in a very short time a large number of products of chinese origin were being piled up in ports? i am not in a position to understand why european leaders are celebrating the opening of chinese outsourced companies and then coming home complaining about competition from china.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. nothing is more vulnerable to structural change than the textile industry. we have had this painful experience in austria, a few years ago in the federal state of vorarlberg, when the textile industry, which had a traditional location there, collapsed overnight because it was relocated to other countries. at that time it was hungary, later romania, then ukraine, now serbia, and so on. today we are dealing with a global phenomenon. the trade conflict with china has brought this very clearly to the attention of all of us. what did we do? we have changed: we have moved to modern technologies, we have moved to research, we have moved to economic conditions which have made vorarlberg one of the most modern high-tech sites in europe and competitive. this means that we must extend the competitive framework to the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to find more sustainable recipes, recipes that are sustainable enough to make sure we know the conditions under which products are produced. it is evident that in china many measures are taken for soes which also lead to distortions of competition, such as interest-free loans from state-owned banks, export subsidies, hidden aid in the form of free electricity supply, etc. i remember being at a brief meeting with one of the european textile producers and traders who pointed out that china was obviously pushing its textiles into the market because half of it had to be produced in foreign currency. so when you talk to china, you should also point out that this pressure should be taken away from the chinese companies. this would undoubtedly help the european textile industry.
mr president, unlike many of my predecessors, i would like to say to the commission in the textile case that it has acted well in this conflict between industry and trade, where one wanted to 'squash' the other within the european union, to use the austrian expression. the commission has acted in good faith in its negotiations with china. before we talk at length about where the textile industry is going and what we can do here, we should rather - and i say this as a textile trade unionist - talk about an orderly withdrawal of the textile and clothing industry within the european union. that doesn't mean the textile industry is going to be gone. no, not at all. there will still be a textile industry in the technical textile sector, high-tech with nanotechnology, as we have already seen in the beginning. this will be the remnants of the textile industry in europe. there will be a remnant of haute couture in the european union. but it'll be just a leftover. so we need to talk about an orderly withdrawal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. today the council is once again conspicuous by its absence from this debate. i am saying this in the presence of the british presidency, which has been pushing for no more money to be made available to the european union. i'm not asking for money for the textile industry. i am asking for money for the regions where, despite agreements, employment will be massively reduced by over a million in the next few years. we need that within the european union. i would also like to ask the commissioner a question on another subject: should we not talk about labelling textiles? labelling needs to be discussed and discussed with the wto. i am talking about labelling which should take into account both social and environmental aspects. in addition, the wto should also require that human rights and ilo standards be implemented in china. it's the best way to progress. we must keep our eyes on our workers and also on the workers and the development in china. we are then ready for the development of world trade that we need.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. china is an important partner for europe, the eu's second largest trading partner after the united states. according to chinese statistics, the eu is china's no. 1 trading partner, ahead of the united states. i believe that our absolute priority should be to open up our markets to each other. we cannot open our markets while our companies are facing problems there. i believe that in the future the growth opportunities in the chinese market will be of the utmost importance for our manufacturing industry in particular, and that many of the equipment supplied there will come from europe. european companies must of course also position themselves in time on this market to secure jobs in our country. imports into europe also increase our purchasing power. many of our families save hundreds of euros a month by being able to buy very acceptable quality goods at very reasonable prices. the money you save in this way can then be spent on other services or products, so the chinese are actually increasing our purchasing power disproportionately. it has already been said that intellectual property is a huge problem and that we need more protection for our european companies. we need the commission's enforcement power in patent law and trademark law. i call on the commission to ensure that these international commitments are strictly respected, particularly in the negotiations in hong kong and also in the trips. i think we can strengthen our relationship in the future. i believe that a communist country is on the way to a market economy, which also supports democracy and human rights. this is where we should all be supporting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the restriction of freedom of expression in tunisia is not a new topic for us. the fact that the repression of the media, of political opposition, of ngos, of students, of lawyers, is still increasing in the run-up to a un summit on the information society, has a slightly cynical tinge. the construction of the information society means free access to information and also the right to distribute information. like my predecessors, commissioner, i would also like to ask you to use the political dialogue with our partner tunisia to enable the tunisian league for human rights, the association of journalists and the association of judges to resume their activities as soon as possible and to secure the immediate release of the lawyer mohammed abbou, who was sentenced in april in a trial marked by several irregularities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wonder if there's been some kind of misunderstanding. it is true that there are concrete cases, but it is also clear that the question of migration to europe cannot be solved in the places mentioned here; i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have therefore chosen this basic title and would like to keep it.
i have to say, madam president, the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. i know. but if you put yourself in the other person's position, you must remember that the international atomic energy agency, as it is structured, is also biased in favour of the official nuclear powers. the point is that it is not possible to separate peaceful and military nuclear uses. i think that the right approach for the european union would be to take a much more fundamental approach, to question its own force de frappe and to work towards de-escalation towards 'no nukes'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. last week, a group of mayors was here in brussels, in belgium, and in the grand place, one of the victims had his backpack stolen. he wanted to report this theft to the police, but the police at the grand place informed him that this was not possible without giving the passport number. this is not the only incident of this kind, it happens all the time. in my office there are a lot of complaints about attacks and thefts on visitor groups, and i would ask the parliament and the directorate to perhaps set up a contact point which can follow up these complaints in a sustainable way, also with the belgian authorities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you have mentioned as one of the basic principles of this africa strategy that it will mean both equality and partnership. partnership has been defined as both the european continent, the european union and our african partners believing in and working towards the multilateral order. i believe that we are not doing a good job in the case of the last colony in africa, in the case of western sahara, either on the part of the european union as an institution or on the part of the member states. i am often asked why the european union is putting so much money into one country through association agreements when it has been occupying another country for almost exactly thirty years and is thus violating all international law. the second point is the question of population growth. it is clear that we cannot discuss a development strategy for africa without discussing the problems of population growth and the reproductive rights of the people there. it is not a new finding that a slower population growth has a positive effect on the development of a country and the reduction of poverty. two things we have to take very seriously when we talk about this strategy for africa: the fact that we have the largest generation of young people in the history of the world, and the growing hiv/aids pandemic.
the commission has already done so. it is surprising that i should speak out about this escalating crisis in ethiopia. but it is a country that is very close to me because a compatriot of mine - karlheinz böhm - has people working for people here and has always mobilized help - help that is a drop in the bucket. i find it all the more regrettable that the democratic experiment in ethiopia is threatening to fail because the government is apparently unable to recognize democratic facts and guarantee the fundamental rights of the opposition. i would like to appeal to the commission not to stop with appeals and good words, but to make it clear that its aid is conditional on democratic progress and that this is backed up by conditions to which the aid is linked. i am also very much in favour of - and support ana gomes's - sending an ad hoc parliamentary committee to ethiopia. the more we show the presence of all levels of the european union, the better, because we are documenting that we do not want to escalate the crisis in this country.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we have talked a lot today about lisbon and the importance of education. one of the objectives is to strengthen european cooperation in the field of quality assurance in higher education. quality must be assessed on the basis of various criteria. national quality criteria are as important as those of individual universities or those applied internationally in the european higher education area in competition with other countries. it is therefore necessary to set up or improve quality assurance systems and accreditation agencies which, as we have heard, carry out the evaluation of higher education institutions and make them more international, and subsequently to establish a european register, a list of quality assurance agencies. the aim is to enable higher education institutions to choose an appropriate agency to carry out the evaluation. the evaluation should be based on the standards and procedures adopted in bergen, but these requirements should not be seen as static and unchangeable requirements. education is a living, evolving space; the guidelines should be adapted to the times and to developments. i would also like to stress that cooperation with the higher education community is essential. the agencies should and must also network with those in other member states. the creation of standards will lead to greater recognition of qualifications and training, which is what we urgently need in a common educational area. mobility is a quality criterion, but it has a very negative impact when the proportion of students from the neighbouring country is between 30 and 50% and the local students are left behind, as is currently the case in austria. i know that the austrian government has failed to do a lot here, but i ask for your help, commissioner, to defuse this conflict. this is also very important for citizens' understanding of the european union.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. both the promotion and protection of linguistic diversity and migration are important issues in the european union. if the two coincide - namely linguistic diversity and migration - then the european parliament must have a say. i would also like to thank mr portas for this initiative. integration requires multiple approaches, and language and language support are the gateway to this. i share the opinion of linguists that the promotion of the learning of both mother tongue and national language is necessary for integration and for the development of one's own personality. academic progress an important aspect of integration is also based on the development of the mother tongue and not only on the development of the national language. but that requires action. for example, pedagogically oriented teaching materials, human resources with intercultural competences and, ideally, domestic teachers with knowledge of the languages of the most migratory nations. last but not least, those who have the right to education - i am thinking here primarily of parents - must also make their contribution. i would like to point out that it is very important that mothers, women, participate in these integration and education projects, because they can pass on the most to their children and thus find a better integration for themselves. however, learning the language of the host country is a top priority for both children and parents, especially in order to promote social and economic integration. it would also be important to have a european internet portal, a kind of think tank or network of experts to share best practice examples, so that many can also learn from each other via the internet.
the commission has already done so. i will be representing mr bono. i would like to thank mrs pack for this initiative, because i think it is very important to recognise that the circus is a cultural asset and not a normal business activity. once all countries understand this and actually put it into practice, then perhaps there will be an improved chance for the survival of the circus, because we are already at the point where we have to fight for its survival. it is about being aware of this tradition, which is a european speciality. it is about preserving a cultural heritage, and you have to say it that way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the internal market. it is not possible for a circus to have to move from one town to another, from one country to another, with different administrative regulations and, of course, with the associated high costs, which are an additional burden on an already very tight budget. i think we should also re-examine the issue of visas. there should be a longer visa for these artists, but we must also be careful not to allow abuse to develop, which could then extend to human trafficking. we must also think about the education and training of children and find common ways of doing so. the bigger problem, which i am sure we will not be able to solve together, is the question of animal husbandry in the circus. there are national differences in the regulations and it will be difficult to find a common denominator. i hope, however, that we can still act together for the welfare of animals and the happiness of people.
the commission has already done so. over 68 million people, or 15% of the population of the european union, are at risk of poverty. countries outside the eu-25 are even more affected. this is why all possible eu instruments should be used - be it the european neighbourhood policy, the european external action service, development policy or financial policy - to reduce poverty internally and externally. national action plans must include concrete measures to reduce poverty and their implementation must be monitored by the european commission. it is essential that women are given greater consideration in both the european employment guidelines and the lisbon strategy. the european union's development policy must focus more on poverty reduction, while international development policy should be urgently analysed in terms of helping vulnerable groups and further marginalizing them. the world bank, the g-8, the international monetary fund and the world trade organisation must come forward and show the concrete consequences of their policies on women and poverty. poverty outside the eu-25 can also lead to increased illegal migration, trafficking, crime and, in a further step, trafficking in women. we will therefore reiterate our longstanding call for the member states to finally adopt a guaranteed minimum income.
i have to say, madam president, i am representing mr casa, who is ill. he asked me to take his time. we wish him a good recovery, so that he can get back on his feet as soon as possible and exercise his parliamentary right of speech. i should also like to thank mr beaupuy on behalf of mr casa for his excellent report. i think we all know that cities must be the focus of regional policy in the future, because they are the focus of the problems that will be faced in regional policy in the future. we know that 80 percent of people live in urban agglomerations. the problem of urbanisation is growing and often the problems associated with it are growing. it will therefore be up to europe to make the rural areas around the cities attractive through our regional policy, in order to prevent this very trend towards the cities. this means that in the period 2007-2013, the european union must not only have a sound urban policy, but also a sound rural policy, especially in mountain and remote areas, in order to provide people with meaningful working conditions. this does not mean that we are neglecting cities: many of the problems they face can be solved with the help of the european union. so we should use benchmarking to show solutions that make sense to everyone. i would also like to congratulate mr stubb on his remarks. we in central europe look to the north - not with admiration, but with warm feelings - and are actually pleased that these countries have managed to maintain the european social model. i would support his statements regarding our social democratic colleagues.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we, the members of this house, have been very generous. i can only ask the authors of resolutions to write them in principle before the deadline for tabling resolutions and not after it. it makes our job easier. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by mr portas states that only those who know the language of the new host country will be able to find training, support and integration. it is precisely because of this situation that second and third generation immigrant children - if they do not speak the language of the host country - continue to be denied a future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we cannot tolerate the emergence of parallel societies, and the acquisition of the respective national language is therefore a prerequisite for immigrants for any integration, which we must insist on.
in writing. 51% of the eu population is potentially at risk of poverty because they are female. on the one hand, it is certainly because, despite many good intentions, we have done little to improve women's equal opportunities in working life. the 'weaker sex' still earns on average 20 to 30% less for the same job, with minimal career opportunities. another reason is that they spend more time on child rearing, household management and social work and therefore, for lack of time, they would not be able to enter full-time employment - if such a possibility exists at all. in fact, women are often employed only part-time, resulting in low pensions. cheap jobs, one-euro jobs - whatever you call them - the result is always the same: a family simply cannot feed itself with two or three of these jobs. the problem cannot be solved by higher family income alone, but only by a comprehensive programme of good educational and employment opportunities, equal pay, more flexible childcare and better protection for old age. because it is at this particular stage of life that single mothers and women living alone are particularly at risk of poverty. we must pay more attention to a pro-natalist family policy and increase the resources available to it, so that women can also have better employment opportunities and thus be protected, so that they do not collectively decide against children and our european population slowly dies out.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. perhaps we should rename the lifelong learning programme to lifelong learning, because lifelong learning sounds too much like punishment, and learning should be fun! this programme is an educational programme with a wide range of priorities, such as comenius, erasmus, grundtvig, etc. but these different priorities have one thing in common: promoting mobility, improving quality, recognising achievement and training, multilingualism, getting to know countries. this is also a european added value. these are the preconditions for achieving or at least getting closer to the lisbon target of 3 million erasmus students and 150 000 leonardo participants by 2010. i share mrs pack's view that we should increase the contribution for erasmus students. this should not, however, mean that those member states - such as austria - which increase the grants with national subsidies, should reduce their contributions; rather, they must adapt them to the new requirements. 25% of the eu population has a university degree, 75% a secondary school degree. a large number of citizens have vocational training. unfortunately, the lisbon papers do not contain any figures on this, which i would like to criticise. mobility in vocational and initial training is associated with many administrative and linguistic barriers, and therefore the leonardo programme urgently needs more support and funding. we do not need a new erasmus for apprenticeship, but a well-functioning leonardo! the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are looking forward to the lisbon action plans of the individual member states, but we are also looking forward to the outcome of the financial perspective and the budget proposals for all these programmes for 2007. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the programme, and that the commission should be consulted on the future of the programme.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. the programme is called 'youth in action'. youth is always in action. the question is: what actions can we help them with, where can we support them or what motivations can we offer them? the programme is certainly one way and offers options to develop here and to network at european level. but to do that we urgently need real simplification in the administrative field. the youth forum is not able to do this alone. it must help the youth organisations with the submission of applications and with the payment of the money. this is a very important point, because young people are waiting for their money. the activities are under way and must be subsidised. the young people themselves have no money and otherwise have difficulty paying back their advance payments. i therefore urge the commission to make these payments at least three months after the commitment. the youth week, as a fixed part of this programme, is very important because it allows the young people and us to enter into a dialogue. by presenting their concerns here in the institutions, young people learn about the institutions and at the same time find a voice. what is presented here should be taken with you, not let it go in one ear and out the other. the fact that equal participation for disadvantaged young people must be guaranteed is self-evident and must be understood in our framework, because only in this way will young people also succeed in understanding other disadvantaged people and contribute to a common, understanding europe.
the commission has already done so. 70 cents per citizen, was the action launched in the spring by various cultural organisations and supported by parliament and the commission. everyone recognized that it was very important information, what you could do with 70 cents and how much we would end up with left over. i'm gonna have to join the ranks of those who talk about finances all the time. but it is a fact that with the budget we have at our disposal, the ambitious cultural programme cannot be implemented. the cultural programme, as envisaged in the report, extends from the preservation of cultural heritage to contemporary cultural events; i think that we must think realistically, allocate realistic amounts and priorities, or, in the case of the budget, be a little more realistic, have visions and be realistic in the implementation of the programme. i agree with the colleague who says that it is essential to defend cultural heritage, but i think we are also very much connected to contemporary art and therefore we must try to find a common denominator.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, avril doyle, for her excellent work. i fully support their position. the kyoto protocol was made possible mainly by the efforts of the european union. three of the six gases listed in the kyoto protocol are f-gases. austria and denmark have introduced general bans on the use of these gases. experience in both countries and innovations in other member states clearly demonstrate that there are technically and economically viable alternatives to fluorinated greenhouse gases that are generally better for the environment. alternatives are available for a wide range of products and facilities that can significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. a number of alternatives even reduce energy consumption at the same time. many european manufacturers can offer alternatives on the market. consumers can already make their purchases in supermarkets that are cooled with alternatives to f-gases. the german federal environment agency has produced a comprehensive study on the availability and efficiency of alternatives. this report shows that alternatives exist for many important applications. it should be noted, however, that the common position is not ambitious enough. the proposal for a regulation on certain f-gases does not take sufficient account of the tested and already available developments. the adoption of mere negligible bans or restrictions will not only hamper eco-innovation in this area, but will also deprive the community of any credibility in developing eco-efficient solutions. furthermore, the council's common position on the regulation will not allow member states to become more ambitious in their voluntary action towards technical alternatives. the eu's burden-sharing agreement commits different member states to very different greenhouse gas reduction targets. it is therefore necessary for member states to take different measures to achieve their reduction targets. article 175 is therefore crucial as the legal basis for the whole regulation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three of the six gases listed in the kyoto protocol are fluorinated greenhouse gases which are to be regulated by this legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. commissioner dimas said in his speech that we should send a positive signal by passing this legislation. but this can only be done if either community-wide objectives are ambitious and sufficiently stringent - we know that this proposal is not - or if article 175 is taken as the legal basis, thus giving member states that have already gone further the opportunity to implement a stricter, more environmentally and climate-friendly policy. it has already been said today that austria and denmark have introduced general bans on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases. the experience of these countries shows that there are alternatives to f-gases. it was also mentioned that there is a comprehensive study by the german federal environmental agency. this study shows that there is potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and for reducing energy consumption. we must use this legislation to ensure that stricter rules can be maintained. this is important for member states to be able to meet their obligations under the kyoto protocol. this option is also in line with a legal opinion of the european parliament's legal service, which refers to article 175 as the correct legal basis. it would also send a positive political signal that we do not back down on countries that are already doing more to protect the environment and the climate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am also pleased to welcome observers from romania and bulgaria to the european parliament today. on behalf of their peoples, they were told that the romanian and bulgarian peoples must of course have a european perspective after fifty years of communist tyranny and servitude, that they are of course part of europe - in my view quite the opposite of turkey. but neither romania and bulgaria nor the european union can cope with a hasty enlargement. if we consider that the enlargement of the european union a year ago - the enlargement to the east by ten countries - has already brought the european union to the limits of its financial viability, and if we consider that the enlargement to include bulgaria and romania is expected to cost some 44 billion euros, we know how difficult this problem is. in view of these financial problems, and especially in view of the still massive and not yet fully resolved problems of these two countries, such as rampant corruption, organised crime, unemployment and poverty, but also in view of the still unresolved deficiencies in border control and inspections, this plan for continued enlargement must be prepared in a very thorough manner. european citizens expect the applicant countries to make demonstrable progress in the fight against crime, in strengthening the economy and in creating jobs. moreover, the people of romania and bulgaria also have a right to have these problems solved before enlargement, let alone a hasty enlargement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. to stick to the football language used by mr lagendijk, we can say that the commission has shown the two countries, romania and bulgaria, the yellow card, which does not exclude the fact that the two teams, romania and bulgaria, play so well and fairly that it is still possible to complete accession in 2007. the commission has rightly pointed out that progress has been made in many areas, but that a number of questions remain open. as regards romania, following what mr wiersma has said, i hope that the political debate in the country will move more towards a common european position and not attempt to divide the country. the opposition, the government and the president of the country should be on the same page here. as far as bulgaria is concerned, i am convinced that what has been missed will be made up in the government formation phase. some things have happened and some things have yet to happen. it is quite clear that we will be watching carefully what the two governments and the two countries are doing to remedy the remaining shortcomings. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the major problem of corruption, but also the situation of the roma population, which has also been addressed. we have not only been dealing with this issue again and again in this parliament - and i have seen progress here too - but there are also, of course, fears that we are not exporting security to these countries but are importing problems if we do not take great steps to help this disadvantaged group of people in the country itself. all of this will have to be looked at in order to make a decision in 2007 or 2008, taking into account the welfare of these countries, because it is also about helping these countries to take the right steps. i would like to invite you, commissioner, to join this parliament in the coming months in taking action not only in the countries themselves but also in addressing the issue of enlargement more generally within the european union. of course, there is a certain expansion fatigue. this is not surprising after the previous debates and disappointments, but we must not simply give in to fatigue and say that we are not interested. the debate is about convincing people of the importance of enlargement. i would like the commission to use this opportunity to give an assessment of 2004 enlargement, because - even though it has been said today that it has brought us to the limit of what is possible - i am convinced that this step of enlargement in 2004 has been very positive. not that there are no problems, but in reality it has strengthened the european union if we work through it together. we need to discuss that, too. we also expect the new member states to show a strong commitment to european policy. if the newly elected president of poland now thinks that his first two trips should be to the united states and the vatican, then i have to accept that. i certainly will not interfere with the polish president's travel program. but it is not surprising that some people ask: is not europe more important and is not the unity that poland has joined? this morning we had a debate on social standards and social models in europe, and in this context there are fears that the standards we have worked so hard to achieve will simply be broken. it is certainly not possible - and my group fully agrees with me - that we should now isolate ourselves anew in the process of enlargement, in the process of integration, and leave out the workers, the chapter or the interests of our neighbours. we must make the transition process sensible and try, as far as possible, to develop together a new social standard and not to open the door to social dumping. if we can convince our own people of the importance of this enlargement of the european union, i hope that we will reach a good decision next spring and that it will be possible to decide on 2007 as the date for enlargement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. frequently used language images often shape basic political attitudes. i would therefore like to oppose the comparison with the yellow card which is now so often used. romania and bulgaria will not be given a yellow card by the commission today, because that would imply that they are already on the field. but they're not yet. no question, they're european players, but they're not in the stadium yet. what do they say about themselves, and how are they classified? the ngo transparency international also noted that corruption in bulgaria has actually increased, and in recent years bulgaria has been further down the ranking, not only in places, but also in points. that is, the player bulgaria moves out of the eu field, if you agree with baroness winterbourne when she says that corruption is the greatest enemy of mankind. as for romania, i will just quote the new president who said: "i assert without hesitation that almost all state institutions are affected by corruption". romania is not prepared for the standards of the european union. we should draw our conclusions from this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are airlines which are very much interested in being sued. otherwise, the complaints will end up in the trash. it would be urgent to introduce some kind of third party certification. the refusal of payment on the grounds of force majeure or other reasons would then have to be confirmed by a third party organisation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european electricity market is currently billing european electricity consumers for the most expensive form of electricity production, namely gas turbines with the highest co2 cost shares from lignite. are you planning to carry out a competition investigation of the european electricity exchange in order to prevent this concentration?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not it is a long time since i agreed with you, commissioner, or with your predecessor. this is particularly true of the report which the commission has submitted pursuant to article 16 of the bioprotection directive. i can say on behalf of my group that we agree with the conclusions of this report both as regards the question of the scope, the scope of patents and the distinction between the patentability of totipotent and pluripotent stem cells and can also support the proposals for the next steps as contained in the report. we also want to promote the development of biotechnology and we believe that patents play a very important role in this. i also believe that the commission's written report is a bit too short and that there are more open problems with the application of our bioprotection directive than the commission actually addresses in its report. i have been a member of this house for a long time and i was very much involved in the decision at the time. we are all victims here of the compromises that had to be made at that time. i would also like the commission to take a somewhat quicker approach and to address more directly the problems that are still open. the question raised by this draft resolution is not so much a problem with the commission as with some of the members of this house: should the european parliament be the plaintiff? as a member of the legal affairs committee, i can only advise against this step. it is not the role of the european parliament to take part in individual procedures. i hope that we can adopt a resolution tomorrow which does not say that. (applause from the left)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not what are we doing here? we are once again consulted on a non-binding basis on the council's framework decisions in a key area of internal security, judicial and police cooperation, which 25 parliaments are ultimately to transpose into national law. in practice, this means that they are carrying out nothing more and nothing less than a kind of ratification process under the pressure of the laborious agreement of 25 governments, without this consultation being binding, without co-decision, without community law, without comprehensive control rights and without extending the powers of the european court of justice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the fight against terrorism. this report shows once again that we have reached the real limit of legitimizing intergovernmental cooperation in this area. there are a number of vague legal terms in this report - certainly the most dangerous in such a volatile area! promotion of criminal associations: what is it, what is it, what is the legal definition? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal framework is not distorted, and that the legal framework is not distorted. we shall therefore not be voting in favour of this report.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking mr mauro on behalf of my group for his report and to congratulate him warmly on it. he has the broad support of our group. the trans-european transport network of the 15 eu member states comprised 75 200 km of roads and 78 000 km of railways by 1 may 2004. since 1 may 2004, 14 500 km of roads and 16 000 km of railways have been added. the commission's initiative to revise and increase the appropriations for the period 2007-2013 is therefore to be welcomed. if we take a critical look at what happened to the old 14 priority networks, we must say that this was a blow to the head. not much happened. on the basis of this sober analysis, we can at the same time commit ourselves to what the heads of state and government have undertaken, namely the lisbon strategy. the report by mr böge on the financial perspective shares this in full. we are committed to what was agreed in lisbon, unlike some heads of state and government. we support you in this, commissioner. we have also learned from the past that it simply takes a certain critical mass of co-financing from brussels to perhaps kick-start one or another transeuropean network. we believe that the commission's ideas could represent this critical mass in financial terms. that is why we are happy to vote in favour of the mauro report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are talking today about criteria for energy and transport infrastructure projects, and this is necessary because the history of promises of new infrastructure without accompanying measures is also a history of disappointed expectations. i therefore attach particular importance to these necessary framework conditions, without which even the most expensive project would be meaningless. i therefore attach particular importance to the implementation of the common signalling system, the implementation of cost-benefit analyses, the respect of eu environmental legislation and its consideration as a condition for co-financing. i am thinking here of the messina bridge: i cannot understand why this project should be treated as a cross-border project. i would like to mention one idea for the future: why can we not in future encourage countries which need money from the union for new infrastructure to charge tolls for the management and maintenance of this infrastructure? without this, there is an imbalance and a distorted competition.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you listen to mr ferber, you will regret that he has not yet been called to berlin to take charge of the finances of the germans in brussels - then something would change. it is also bad that you are in the minority in your own group, and it is even worse if you listen to this colleague - as i am doing now - as a former leading candidate of the social democrats. more and more and more! nowhere to understand that times have changed and that less can often be more. this house, the way it's funded, it's a living, breathing waste. the 2006 budget is, after all, again an expression of greed, incomprehension and missed opportunities. greed, greed for more, incomprehension, because not even the 90 million that were available were used to do something sensible. that's another missed opportunity. we are increasingly seeing that we need real alternatives in europe. we need european, democratic and transparent alliances that will finally put pressure on the council to change what is wrong here for the benefit of citizens throughout europe.
for the draftsman of the opinion of the consultative committee on petitions. the commission is not i have the honour today of representing my colleague mr schwab, who is a member of the committee on petitions, as i am, but unfortunately is unable to do so. i refer to the draft budget for the european ombudsman, for which we are responsible in the committee on petitions. his duties are of fundamental importance, since the ombudsman is to communicate with the citizens of the community and to bring them closer to the community institutions. it ensures that the rights and duties of our fellow citizens are respected by examining the growing number of complaints of maladministration in the community administration and carrying out investigations where necessary. through its work, it contributes to improving the transparency and quality of the services provided by the european administration. it is therefore essential that the european ombudsman be allocated adequate resources to enable him to carry out his duties as efficiently as possible. the committee on petitions considers the 3% increase in appropriations compared to the 2005 budget to be appropriate. the increase in appropriations is particularly justified in view of the overall increase in workload due to an increase in complaints and communication activities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore support the request for additional staff for the enlargement. the budget line also provides petitioners, i.e. citizens, with the possibility of obtaining, under certain circumstances, a partial reimbursement of up to 80% of their travel expenses from the parliament's budget, provided that they have obtained the prior approval of the committee chairman. the amount of the allowance is calculated on the basis of the number of days worked in the year. the committee considers that these measures are necessary because they have already had a positive impact on the committee's ability to respond better to the needs of european citizens. we must therefore be clear: you cannot have more europe for less money!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would point out that i followed the rapporteur in the doyle report and consider article 175 to be the correct legal basis because austria and denmark have already introduced general bans on the use of these f-gases and the experience in both countries shows that technically and economically viable alternatives to these fluorinated greenhouse gases exist in principle and are much better from an ecological point of view. if we continue to use hfcs in virtually all new air conditioners, we are likely to see a further increase in these f-gases, and we must expect an increase of 5% by 2010. this is unacceptable!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is clear that since 11 september 2001, we have been predominantly concerned with the fight against terrorism and neglected the fight against crime. this development has allowed criminal organisations, particularly those from non-european countries, to expand and become more decentralised. terrorist activities are financed not least by criminal activities. it is therefore essential that we refocus our attention on the fight against crime and organised crime. it is of little help for government agencies to work with criminals once and then fight them again. we are therefore inviting more corruption and mismanagement. i believe that there is a need for common communication structures between the police and the judiciary, for greater cooperation between the various organisations and the states, and for better protection of witnesses, not forgetting the protection of victims.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would point out that it is in principle the responsibility of the member states to take the necessary measures to prevent this flu pandemic from being painted on the wall. but it is also important that the commission now plays the coordinating role. according to the warnings of the world health organization and the european center for disease prevention and control, they are taking the outbreak of the flu pandemic very seriously. it is now time to draw up contingency plans, to establish the necessary coordination and, above all, to prevent panic among the general public. in conclusion, i would like to thank the interpreters for sacrificing part of their lunch break.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have a few days ago reported the president of the council missing, so i wanted to say welcome back. but he's gone again. i hope he will not return to the european stage until december. i have put this missing person's report because i find participation in the public european debate, the search for solutions to the citizens' questions and the problems we have, too tacit, too much under the table. i miss the active presidency of the council. we have heard the second good speech today - i think the one on 23 june was better - there were proper analyses, vague suggestions and many announcements. mr president, well over half of your term as president of the council has already elapsed. the commission's report is not a success story. the european council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. give the european union the powers to do what you ask it to do! for example, we are not responsible for universities. we are not responsible for national energy policies. but you're asking us to. give the european union the financial means to do what you ask it to do and to implement what you have co-decided. we tell you: the report by mr böge does not agree with the european parliament on the financial perspective because we want to be able to do what we are obliged to do. the european social model is for us the social market economy and the reflection phase on the constitution does not begin on 30 june but now. the commission has already made a number of proposals. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, as one of the members of the electoral observation delegation, i would like to express my sincere thanks to our chairman, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, for the good work done by the delegation in afghanistan, but also to the head of the eu observation mission, mrs emma bonino, and to the european union's long-term observers, who have done and are still doing excellent work. many of us have already stressed today that these elections were an important step in the democratic process of afghanistan. i would like to focus on one issue, namely the political participation of afghan women. during the taliban regime, you read a lot about the oppression of afghan women. it is a great joy to see the election results, that 27% of the future members of parliament will be women. the quota instrument, which provides for 25% of women, is also very useful. i would like to say that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the afghan authorities have not yet taken any action to ensure that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the afghan authorities have not yet taken any action to ensure that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the afghan authorities have not yet taken any action to ensure that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the afghan authorities have not yet taken any action to ensure that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the afghan authorities have not yet taken any action to ensure that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the afghan authorities have not yet taken any action to ensure that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in afghanistan is not further complicated by the fact that the situation is not further complicated. the social indicators show that the situation is still very difficult. our head of delegation, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, said at the press conference in afghanistan - and this is important - that the european union will be watching human rights and especially women's rights very closely when it is examining developments in afghanistan. another point is the conditions that some of the ngos in afghanistan are facing. the european commission must make it very clear that ngos will always be our partners, so that they are not subject to repression.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank you, commissioner, for the very mixed picture you have painted. we have indeed made some progress, and that should be noted and praised. but recently there has been a renewed nervousness, and as a result a series of measures which are not compatible with free elections. it is crucial that we look at elections not just on election day itself - where some of the measures you have mentioned can also bring about improvements - but also look at the period leading up to it: how transparent is the process, how much access to the media is there and what opportunities for development do the opposition have? we have also discussed a number of matters which give us much to think about in our cooperation with the azerbaijani parliament in the delegation. the country's ambassador had trouble explaining why opposition meetings were repeatedly cancelled or postponed or had to be held on the outskirts of baku, which certainly did not give the opposition the opportunity to present its program and candidates, especially during election times. so it doesn't surprise me that you mentioned that a number of celebrities who wanted to run have pulled out because they felt that there was no fair competition and no fair elections. azerbaijan must get used to taking bigger steps towards democracy and transparency. the transformation process that needs to take place in azerbaijan is certainly difficult, but these steps must be taken despite the simmering conflict over nagorno-karabakh. during our visit to the country, we noticed that measures towards modernization, transparency and democracy have been blocked repeatedly with the indication that they live in a major conflict. we must take that into account. we naturally hope that this conflict can be resolved in the interests of azerbaijan. but this must not prevent the government from modernising and developing its internal structures. you've already talked about access to the media. there are big problems, including in terms of security. the safety of journalists who are critical and free is not guaranteed, when i think of elmar huseynov, whose murder is still unsolved. we would naturally like azerbaijan to take a much more decisive approach here. i would like to mention one more point in this context. azerbaijan is now a country which can generate a lot of additional resources because of the rapidly increasing oil revenues. we have also heard during our visit that our pressure instruments are no longer effective, particularly in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, because the country is not dependent on european funds. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, which will be able to provide the necessary information to the public. commissioner, you are absolutely right and i want to support you. we the commission and parliament should jointly do our utmost to ensure that further important reforms are implemented in azerbaijan after the elections with the new parliament. we must not, in the interests of the people of this country, let our efforts be slack!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not if this statement is really so, then it is of course totally unacceptable to all of us in this house and cannot be ignored without discussion. i therefore fully support, on behalf of my group, mr poettering's request that we put this on the agenda for the next part-session.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. i welcome the ombudsman's report and at the same time i should like to congratulate my colleague, mr manolis mavrommatis, on his draft report. the ombudsman is probably one of the most important tools for asserting the role of citizens vis-à-vis the institutions. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. it is not by chance that the scandinavian countries acquired such an instrument very early on and that the community had already conceived of such an institution in the 1970s and that it was finally established under the maastricht treaty. the role of the european ombudsman, originally conceived as a parliamentary commissioner with advisory and monitoring functions, has evolved rapidly in practice to the point where the ombudsman now acts as an external monitoring mechanism of the european public administration, exposing recurrent irregularities. the number of complaints, which is steadily increasing, does not mean that european administration has become worse, but that citizens are increasingly concerned about the enforcement of their rights. it is therefore of less importance that the number of inadmissible complaints is consistently very high, averaging about 70-75%. they may indicate that someone is experiencing injustice and wants to do something about it. but if you are not constantly dealing with these things in your daily life, it is not always easy to find the correct form in the sense of: have i given a complete statement of the facts? what specifically makes me feel uncomfortable? what right was violated? which body should act? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and has also been able to provide a number of information tools to help the commission to improve its information system. the ombudsman's efforts to strengthen the network between the national complaints bodies and between him and these national bodies are therefore to be fully supported. the same is true of his increased communication efforts. it is the only way to get the citizen to where he is and perhaps to take away some of his fear of the community, which is unfortunately still largely faceless. the union clearly has a mandate to act in this area, namely to improve administration, increase transparency, speed up procedures and facilitate access to justice, including through extrajudicial instruments such as the ombudsman and, of course, the committee on petitions of this house. that is why i am not particularly pleased with the wording in the draft report under the heading 'reflections on the development of the role of the european ombudsman' which says: 'in the current context of reflections on the lack of educational skills on the part of the european institutions and national governments towards the peoples of the union after the double failure of the referendums in france and the netherlands' etc. what is being expressed here? i think that this is not a question of teaching skills, but of how we can improve communication and community policy. it is not a question of explaining from above in a didactic way something which does not find support in the general public. in this sense, this report is for us both an analysis of the status quo and a task, firstly to create better rules which have the support of the citizens and at the same time to ensure that they are correctly implemented, and secondly to equip the instruments and the ombudsman with the necessary competences to enable him to exercise this independent, extrajudicial, free of charge and citizen-friendly control function vis-à-vis the decision-makers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make myself known in accordance with rules 142 and 143 of the rules of procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the time was not exactly right, and some members did not come or spoke less - the commission and the council, for example. i would ask the bureau to consider whether it is not possible to react more flexibly in these cases, and in particular to give the floor to those members who are present in the chamber until the end of the debate, if they wish to do so, or to allow them to speak longer. instead, we are only allowed one minute of speaking time, and we have wasted almost an hour of time in which we did not have a meeting! i would ask the bureau to introduce a rule here so that this debate can be conducted flexibly and the time can be used. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against amendments nos 543, 301, 344 and 345 at the first reading on the general budget today because they do not distinguish between breeding, production and slaughter animals. i am personally and for austria against the export of live cattle for slaughter, but since the evaluation does not distinguish between breeding and slaughter animals, the abolition of export refunds means the destruction of european production and the existence of cattle farmers. secondly, i voted for amendment no 99 because the common organization of the market in tobacco exists and is valid.
in writing. in one recent night, more than 1,000 black africans in melilla tried to storm the borders to enter the "promised land". the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this is the way desperate people are forced into a hopeless situation, because the way home is often blocked. but local decision-makers are also contributing to this development and are complicit in the tragedy when they naturalise large numbers of illegal immigrants at night and in foggy conditions. a too liberal and unworldly attitude towards illegal immigration, which unfortunately has recently been demonstrated in the kiev affair, does not help people at all, but only creates new problems and favours, above all, human trafficking and organised crime. the rapid growth of the population will exacerbate the flood of economic refugees off the coast of morocco and the coasts of italy and malta. a uniform approach to the refugee question throughout the eu is therefore as essential as destroying these unrealistic fantasies in the refugee countries, so that we can free up funds to improve living conditions there. this is why it is so important to maintain the barcelona process as a measure to combat poverty and to push forward the development of the country-specific action plans.
a writer. the commission is not i think that all those involved are a little exhausted, because the resolution on human rights in western sahara was indeed a very difficult birth. i am glad, however, that the european parliament has turned against the pressure from the moroccan side and that we have decided today in plenary almost unanimously that this item should remain on the agenda and not be taken off the agenda, as was decided yesterday at the conference of presidents. this was very important for our self-confidence and also for the image we project to the outside world as a self-confident parliament. the resolution calls for the release of political prisoners from the sahara, particularly aminatou haidar, who was seriously wounded on 17 june in el ayun and imprisoned in the so-called black prison of el ayun. there has also been an initiative from this parliament. in july, 178 meps signed the call for the release of these political prisoners. but this text is also very good because it shows the real problem, namely that international law has not yet been applied in western sahara and that there is still no political solution to this conflict. i am very glad that we are at least trying to take account of the problem of raw materials in this resolution, because we know that one of the reasons for the conflict in western sahara is the wealth of raw materials and fish. it is also the task of this parliament to identify clearly the causes of this conflict if we are to contribute to improving the situation.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not today's resolution condemns the refusal of the uzbek government to provide any transparency in the investigation into the events of may 2005 and stresses the importance of an independent international commission of inquiry, which should be able to provide immediate details and unimpeded observation of the ongoing processes. the number of people who actually lost their lives in those days of may in andijan has not been revealed to the world public until now. the figures given by human rights organisations range from 500 to 1,000, and the uzbek government says 176 people were killed. president karimov has repeatedly used the scourge of islamism to eliminate political opponents of all political stripes. that is why it is important that we urgently demand the release of the human rights activists, journalists and members of the political opposition who are still in prison.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is not the first time that we have had to discuss the shocking case of tenzin delek rinpoche and have to conclude that china is not prepared to take the path of reconciliation. on the contrary, there is still no guarantee of a transparent and fair procedure. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. the european parliament is guilty of intervening now after having already demanded that this man, whose only fault was that of being a popular teacher, a teaching spiritual leader, be treated fairly in his life-threatening condition. we have to intervene now! now we must once again make our demands to the chinese government. this is all the more necessary because it is particularly the member states and their governments which must: the greater their appetite for the chinese market, the more reticent they become in addressing human rights issues to their chinese counterparts. we owe it to ourselves to defend our values right now and in this context. we as parliamentarians must do what our governments are neglecting to do in this case. if autonomy is only on paper and not being implemented, if the dialogue with the dalai lama, which started so promisingly, is not being pursued or is being delayed again and again, and if human rights in china are still not being guaranteed, we must raise our voices and demand that this situation be brought to an end and put in order.
i have to say, madam president, thank you, thomas. we're moving in a straight line again. the sixth wto ministerial conference will be held in hong kong in december this year. once again we are going to have a ministerial conference where neither the prohibition of child labour nor the abolition of forced labour, freedom of assembly or the right to form trade unions will be discussed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission communication we are discussing today sets out actions that the community can take to make the process of globalisation fairer for all. in this context, i would like to draw attention to a negotiating mandate of the 1999 wto ministerial conference in seattle, which called for the eu to host a ministerial conference on trade, employment and core labour standards. ladies and gentlemen of the commission! the commission then committed itself to holding this conference in 2001. if you want to take action, i suggest you start with the actions you committed to years ago. i expect you to finally catch up with this conference, because the issue of fair trade is more relevant than ever if you take the social dimension of globalisation seriously, and you should.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. contrary to what a polish colleague said here, there are no two legal views in europe on whether the end justifies the means. the law is clear and binding. terrorism cannot be fought with terrorism. it is not a delicate matter. the deprivation of liberty, kidnapping, abduction, torture, ill-treatment, solitary confinement, ignoring the presumption of innocence are crimes and fulfill the very act of terror. that is not the way of europe. you talk about clues in magazines, and you say you have no proof. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. you have flight numbers, airports, flight times, you have the companies and companies that operate the flights, you have the destinations, you have statements from prisoners, you have evidence from a dozen international organizations, you have investigations by the cia itself - not about the crimes, but about the betrayal of secrets - you have investigations by the austrian military authorities about the flights of cia planes, you have in spain, italy and germany investigations by the judiciary! wake up, take your place and take your responsibility!
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made it clear that it is concerned, and concerned, about the lack of seriousness with which the directive, which was adopted two years ago, is being implemented. this directive has two aspects: it has an internal market aspect, on the one hand, by ensuring the strengthening of the internal market for all providers of occupational retirement provision, and it has, on the other hand, the aspect of social security for workers, of increased dialogue between employers and employees in the creation and development of occupational retirement provision. when i got on the plane this morning, i got a magazine in my hand. the first page said: "there is no way around the occupational pension system in the future". the commissioner has read the agreement of the new german government, which contains two main points aimed at safeguarding the pension system. the importance of the subject has therefore not diminished since the years of the drafting and adoption of the directive. we still have too little venture capital in the european union. in the united states, as we know, it is the pension funds that make the greatest contribution to the creation of venture capital. we still have potential in the internal market and in financial services. the pension funds and the companies involved in occupational pension schemes do not yet have a complete internal market. we are talking a lot about the european model of life, the european social model. the issue of occupational retirement provision more market with social security is an essential prerequisite for the mobility and flexibility of workers, as well as for safeguarding pension systems and ensuring a dignified retirement in an increasingly long-lived society. this directive also makes it clear that we have an imbalance of competences, that there is a misalignment between internal market competences and social security systems. we have dealt with this in the directive. that is why we are asking this question. the member states have the competence to implement this directive and to take account of the matters which we have not legislated but have mentioned. we know from one of your speeches and from the facts that so far only six states have communicated their implementation measures; six others have been partially reported and 13 are missing. 13 countries had not done their homework by 23 september 2005. we therefore ask you, commissioner, what action will you take if by the end of the year not all member states have implemented this directive? what are the problems in implementing the directive? if i am correctly informed, meetings of the member states and the commission took place in october 2004 and april 2005, at which it became apparent that the social and labour law provisions are the main cause of the alleged problems. we must face this tension. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we ask you: what are your conclusions? do you consider that further action is necessary and what role does unequal tax legislation play in the implementation of this directive?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not commissioner, that was a very technical statement of a matter which is not going to go any further. the reluctance to implement the directive on occupational retirement provision is disappointing and, in my view, negligent. the occupational pension schemes are exploding within the european union, and the directive itself offers enough national scope for implementation to make it really possible to design them. the demographic situation is changing dramatically and many countries are gradually withdrawing from old age and health care for ideological reasons; the aim is to close the gap with private precautionary measures. in order to secure pensions in the future, additional elements of capital-building pension provision must be promoted and enforced. if occupational pensions are to provide a stable supplementary pension, it must be ensured that the risks to workers are reduced in practice. the traditional risk of workers' jobs must not be combined with the risk of their voluntary contributions and those of their companies being at risk of loss. the aim of the scheme is to provide a minimum level of protection for the employees of the enterprises in which the pension scheme is established. a europe-wide organised internal market for occupational pensions means more mobility for workers, and they want it. in addition to decoupling the risk of occupational risks from the risk of employees' pension capital in the event of company bankruptcy, there must be minimum standards for occupational pension schemes with clear information rights for supervisory authorities, but also for employees. beneficiaries and beneficiaries of pension schemes must be entitled to information on the capital investment of their pension scheme and on the capital market situation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the implementation of these objectives, as set out in recitals 18 to 23, not only promotes worker safety but is also a requirement of modern capital market supervision in the community. we must act now, commissioner, as you have already taught us to do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe would need a court of auditors which would run like a dynamic tiger across the country and take action where necessary. but this annual report shows again that we may not really be dealing with a predator, but with a creature that is missing its teeth and is in a cage. he's missing his teeth because that's not possible from the institution. the european court of auditors' powers are two different worlds when compared with those of the bavarian court. i know of only one institution which has been set up as a court of auditors, namely the vienna office of auditors, which is even weaker in terms of its powers and its powers of control than the european court of auditors. when it comes to how to act across borders, it is always said: 'i can assure you that the court of auditors welcomes any debate on possible improvements in auditing.' my suggestion is to be constructive. i want a memorandum. you yourself, as the court of auditors, say that you cannot really carry out your duties because you do not have the powers, because you are not allowed to do this or that, and because you are not able to do the duties at all, even by the way in which the staff are selected - the way in which all this is politically achieved! that would be a real service to europe. this would be a first step towards the transparency and controls we need to restore the credibility of this union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my sincere congratulations to the european court of auditors on this report. it shows me in the short time we have it in hand that there are many facts in it that we in our work because the discharge or non-discharge we must ultimately do give excellent criteria to hand. it has been said so often that the finance ministers must sign their bills. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the field of internal policies, six out of 11 directors-general are not in a position to make a declaration of guarantee without reservations. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i haven't found it yet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall then have more success with the member states than we have at present.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! we can certainly support much of what is on the agenda and what president barroso has said today, in particular - and i would like to take up this point made by enrique barón crespo - the attempts by commissioner mandelson to bring about a balanced round of negotiations in hong kong. despite his skepticism, i hope we can make this happen. mr president, in your programme, which is a very ambitious programme, you say that you want to unlock europe's full potential. i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on this matter. i would like to start with the riots in the french cities. certainly these are french events. but there are deeper reasons. perhaps you can now understand why we in the group have always stressed the importance of social cohesion, because where there is unemployment, lack of integration, isolation and discrimination, such disturbances can easily occur. what is also clearly missing from the programme in this respect is a clear statement of the importance of public services. in the cities, they are particularly important, for example, in order to reach out to those who have fewer opportunities and help them. the second chapter you have mentioned, mr president of the commission, is the energy question. i have great respect for the commissioner for energy and i work well with him. but we have already stressed on many occasions how important it is, in the light of developments, that the whole commission should clearly commit itself to an alternative energy policy. it would also be important, mr president of the commission, if you were to adopt the approach which is almost universally followed in america, namely to oblige the large companies to use at least part of their horrendous profits to invest more in research and development. we are curious about the green paper, which should have been available a long time ago. we shall have a very vigorous and serious debate on this. thirdly, the research potential: we must stimulate the research potential. we are now discussing the seventh framework programme for research. but is there a plan for implementation within the commission? the european institute of technology, for example, is mentioned very vaguely and carefully in your programme. they must come forward with more courage and determination and also present a concept of european universities. we must stop subsidizing america by exporting young researchers to america. we train them and then let them go to america because they have too few opportunities in europe. we also need a concept to give small and mediumsized enterprises in particular better access to research funds. that is also absolutely necessary. as regards the subject of 'better regulation', i agree with you. we must have better legislative procedures. this is in the interest of many large companies, in the interest of small and mediumsized enterprises, but also in the interest of the individual citizen. we support the vice president's plan. but better legislation is also a task for us in parliament. we must explain, justify and justify to the citizen every single legislative initiative much more than ever before. we must be sensitive to the situation. we must be more targeted. the commission's task is not so much to check the legality of the measures as to see whether the countries can meet the objectives of the european legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the programme does not make it clear enough that economic development must go hand in hand with social development. i would like you to report to the commission next year on the progress of enlargement. i would like to take up the subject of enlargement in a slightly different way. many citizens are skeptical. but many citizens in the old countries have the impression that enlargement is used to lower social standards and taxes. i think that the debate we had with you, mr president, and with commissioner mccreevy, did not convey enough of the importance we attach to this social issue. and when i read in the financial times, the commission's central organ, that mr mccreevy is absolutely against tax harmonization, i ask myself: is it really our aim to reduce our direct taxes further and further and not be able to finance our social and other infrastructure services? is our aim to achieve a common europe on a much lower social standard? our aim must be to achieve a social europe together - the old and the new countries. i hope that the commission will report on this next year. the financial times recently reported that many statesmen of major countries - schröder, chirac, blair - will step down in the next few years. in poland we have a completely new government. the commission must take a leading role in this europe at a time when new governments and new heads of government are coming in, who may not be so familiar with europe, otherwise the european idea will be lost more and more. if you take this leadership role, we will support you, but please take a leadership role in the sense of a social europe!
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! i am here representing the legal affairs committee and even from the very modest perspective of our legal affairs committee i must say that the commission's work programme and legislative programme are not very ambitious and, in our view, very disappointing. in all the areas where we have expressed our interest and where you have also stated, at least verbally, your priorities - for example, in the field of civil law, copyright, human and children's rights, consumer rights - we find only non-legislative proposals. in some areas where we always agree on the importance of patents, for example, we find no initiatives to move forward here in europe, even though we always agree that this is very important for innovation. i do not see any initiative on services of general economic interest either. at the same time, we must also take note of the fact that you are withdrawing legislative proposals that are really close to our hearts while acknowledging that there are problems here; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we have been trying for years to create our own european statutes for the commercial sector, but we are clearly refusing to provide the public sector, the social economy and civil society with the facilities that european law could provide. we have also proposed ourselves areas where we can withdraw legislation and where we do not think european regulation is necessary. the commission has not taken up these proposals. i am thinking, for example, of the area of mediation, where we have to deal with a draft directive, although we told you in the green paper that this is an area of subsidiarity, there does not necessarily have to be legislation at european level. i think that you have not paid enough attention to what this parliament has told you in the preparatory phase.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to make this very brief. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to make an oral explanation of vote on the brejc report, if that is possible. the gradual removal of barriers to trade has created the political conditions which, together with advances in communication technology and lower transport costs, have made globalization possible. one third of global freight traffic is transport between different sites of the same companies. we have been very keen to support the transeuropean transport with its negative consequences, such as pollution of the environment and the risk to people along the transit routes, with eu funds, while neglecting small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the real employers in europe. i also think it is worrying that the commission is setting up a globalisation fund, but at the same time it wants to cut back on support for farmers who are also affected by the negative consequences of globalisation. as long as we continue to squander far too much money on our subsidies, to shift jobs, to ignore the real causes of the crisis and to blame the black sheep, we will continue to be in the grip of globalisation. that is why i voted against the brejc report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank guido sacconi very much for his excellent work, but i regret to say that i do not see the present compromise on registration as positively as he does. i would also like to congratulate many of my colleagues on their foresight, for not knowing which chemicals are dangerous and which are not, but for being convinced that priority should be given to chemical substances. i do not believe the argument that this is about saving small and mediumsized enterprises. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i believe that the interests of big business are clearly represented here. finally, i would like to refer to the study by the european trade union confederation, which shows that 50% of occupational asthma and skin diseases can be prevented by a strong reach. a colleague pointed out that millions of workers are employed in this sector. the same colleagues can calculate the cost savings that this will mean for the public sector, for the money of all of us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to thank you for the serious discussion. i cannot understand an exhibition in this house showing mr verheugen poisoning a child while mr barroso watches. i ask that the conference of presidents remove this poster from our house immediately.
the commission has already done so. we all know that the developing countries deserve our special attention and care. but i always wonder why they are not prepared to tax aviation gasoline in the same way as other energy sources, especially fossil fuels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the pollution of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. european family forestry is a strong practice of sustainable forestry for the benefit of the whole economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one thing is clear - and you mentioned the research - that wood will continue to be a basic material for many other products.
i'm not going to tell you. i note that you believe that we will reach the interim target for 2006. i ask you: when can you report on this? what are the consequences for those countries which do not achieve this objective? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. what additional projects in the form of eu co-financing projects will you propose to support these objectives and what will be the focus of these projects?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if the negotiations in hong kong under the multilateral system fail - which we all hope not, but it is up for debate - do you think that a free trade area between europe and america would then be easier to shape, or would it become more difficult?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr eurlings, perhaps the problem is also that there are too many politicians who describe the difficulties and problems of enlargement and too few who describe the benefits of enlargement. but i agree with you that we must plan the next steps of enlargement with care and prudence. i would like to say a few words about three countries in the balkans. firstly, there is croatia. i am very pleased, as rapporteur, that we are starting the negotiations. there is still a lot to be done, and the commissioner has mentioned some of it. i would also add, above all, the question of enforcement, which is still a major problem in certain regions of croatia. the judiciary and administration are not yet up to date. and if i use the word time, i would also like to point out to croatia that we should not be talking about the date of accession - none of us knows that - but about taking the necessary steps to bring about a favourable date. as far as macedonia is concerned, i should like to make it clear that some citizens in macedonia may be disappointed that the negotiations have not yet begun. on the other hand, this should be seen as an incentive to take the necessary steps to get to a negotiating process and to start negotiations. i think it is quite a success story what has been achieved by the various ethnic groups in macedonia as a compromise, especially the implementation of the ohrid agreement. on kosovo: i would ask you, commissioner, to continue along the lines you have indicated in your report. it's a very, very critical line. anyone who reads the report will see that it is driven by sympathy for kosovo, but it is also quite critical of the untenable conditions that still exist in kosovo - politically, economically, as regards minority issues, etc. this is one of the few truly critical and objective reports. i believe that we cannot give independence to any country or bring any country closer to the european union if it does not also meet european standards. i am absolutely in favour of helping kosovo to get back on its feet. but i am also absolutely in favour of kosovo meeting european standards - including the majority in kosovo for which we have fought so hard in recent years.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs de veyrac on her report and on the work she has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is particularly remarkable because this result was achieved in the very short period of three months. it is not just us in this house who have achieved this result, but - and this is the remarkable thing - there is also an agreement between parliament, the council and the commission, which is not very often possible in such a short time. it is all the more sad that such an important dossier is being discussed again just before midnight. the reason for this is probably that it is not a matter of some important resolutions, which are of course necessary, but that it is a law that will probably ensure the survival of many people in the future. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of the free movement of persons, and it is not a question of the free movement of persons, but of the free movement of persons. a single common list based on harmonised criteria, the associated flight ban for the airlines on the list and, of course, full information for passengers are the essential elements to guarantee greater safety for european air passengers. the possibility of integrating airlines from third countries is also very important. i am also very pleased that we have succeeded in including the rights of airline staff in the regulation. this was demonstrated by the case of the flyair pilot who had shown malpractice and was subsequently dismissed. we have shown here that we can use european law to ensure that the interests of citizens are effectively served. this should be an example for other projects!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank mrs de veyrac, who has worked very hard on this dossier, which has grown enormously in the middle of the process, which was not an easy situation. it has taken suggestions where possible and has given fair information where it was not possible. so that was a very, very positive approach. the consumer protection aspect was particularly important to me in this dossier. it is a necessary part of a world in which consumers, even as passengers, must be able to make informed choices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's fishermen is not compromised. i believe that this trend can be curbed by paying particular attention to safety. we have taken an important step in the matter of the blacklist. the most important step is still ahead of us, namely implementation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is particularly important that this should be possible and scalable in third countries, which is of central importance to me. i am also counting on a wider impact. in future, accredited tour operators will be careful not to use contractors who cannot guarantee complete security. this is a vital aspect for consumers and for the safety of all of us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her very comprehensive and in-depth analysis. we have always considered that the safety and security of nuclear power stations is a european issue, that these are the issues that concern us all, because in the event of an accident or a problem, all citizens in europe are affected. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. we must ensure that the funds are allocated in accordance with eu competition law and i believe that the legal framework must also be in place to prevent distortions of competition, both between member states and, above all, between producers; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector. that is why we are concerned about the need for peer review, that is to say, mutual control and transparency in implementation, and that we must pay particular attention to the fact that in future the means for decommissioning, final storage and safeguarding will be provided by the consumer of the respective form of energy. we should set clear guidelines for the european union, the court of auditors and the various institutions. the key is to present the situation as clearly as possible and to apply cost models that minimise costs for the consumer but optimise safety, security, final storage and decommissioning.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would feel much more comfortable in a europe without nuclear power stations and the risks associated with them. but because it is a national decision - as the commissioner rightly said - we must of course pay particular attention to security issues; it must also be european rules and standards. the only difference is that in this case it is a power station which was built before accession to the european union and which now has to be closed because of accession to the european union. it's about a power plant in a not very rich country, in a country that has economic problems. i think that this must be taken into account, and that is why the austrian members of parliament in particular in the socialist group have been very active in getting us to increase our contribution towards the closure of this power station. the socialist group will therefore also agree to this higher contribution. i do not see a major contradiction here with the financial perspective, because in the long term these funds are quite appropriate. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to the question of the slovak authorities' willingness to cooperate with the european union in the fight against terrorism.
mr president, commissioner, and my dear colleague mrs beckett! i am glad that the presidency of the council is following our debate and i would like to thank both the commission and my friend anders wijkman in advance for the very ambitious report he has drawn up on this subject. the need for action is simply demonstrated by the natural events around us, whether it be the fires in southern europe, the hurricanes in america or the floods in my home country, austria, in tyrol. but we must not make the mistake of saying that we are all responsible for this global climate change and that it is caused by man-made co2 emissions. unfortunately, there is an overlap of natural effects with these man-made effects. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency. but it's also important that we have long-term strategies to respond to this, to ensure planning certainty. the industry and the economy simply need to be made aware of where this is going and what opportunities they will have in the future. this is of immense importance for the european site. we also have to bear in mind that the community is currently responsible for only 14% of co2 emissions. and this is why it is so important to involve developing countries in particular, but also, of course, the largest emitter, the united states. this part of the report deserves special emphasis: we need a global strategy. i do not agree with my colleagues on nuclear energy. i believe that nuclear energy is not an alternative to these co2-producing technologies because it has too many negative effects in the long term. first of all, we must not make the mistake of offering nuclear energy as an alternative to developing countries because it simply cannot be safely handled in those countries. it is also important that we integrate transport more and simply try to exploit the full potential of co2 reduction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are now voting on the report on iraq. this is a report that might otherwise have appeared under "farther along". it is an important report, however, in which this parliament, together with the council and the commission, has shown that the european institutions can react quickly and in the interests of the citizens. this report was discussed just before midnight last night. now, every moment in this parliament is an important moment. i think we should all - the services and we as members of parliament - ensure that such important legislative reports, which are decided in the interests of our citizens, are discussed at better times so that we can also send a clear signal to the outside world. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's a little late now, i've already pointed out earlier. it is obvious that this request has already been met by the adoption of amendment no 5. i would like to know what the rapporteur's opinion is on this. but i assume that this vote was unnecessary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the record prices of oil and gasoline are currently a most unpleasant reminder that we are likely to face a new energy crisis. since 1960, global energy consumption has nearly tripled. the united states leads the way with a quarter of the world's energy consumption, but the real cause is the progressive modernization of former developing and emerging countries. 80% of the world's energy is still produced from fossil fuels such as oil, gas and coal. however, the development of these resources is becoming more complex and expensive, and their use is damaging our environment. in this situation, to call for nuclear energy again would be to exchange the plague for cholera. although fission has the advantage of not releasing carbon dioxide and thus not contributing to global warming, until the existing problems of reactor safety and nuclear waste disposal are solved, neither new nuclear power stations should be built nor the life of existing ones extended. we can only continue to develop the renewable energy sector, which is the only viable alternative in the long term, to meet demand and to further improve the efficiency of energy use and existing technologies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make an explanation of vote on the wijkman report, which i very much welcome in and of itself. unfortunately, the amendment was adopted by mr vidal-quadras, so that the express exception for nuclear energy has now been removed. i think that is wrong because i believe that nuclear energy is not a realistic alternative for the future and that the risks are not yet manageable. that is why my colleagues and i voted against the report. we are not against the report as such, but it should have been made clearer that nuclear energy is not an alternative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. mr president-in-office, i hope you are feeling that impatience is growing with your presidency and disappointments are growing. their time may not yet have run out, but most of it has already passed. we are not only missing tony blair, but i wonder if he has finally realised that two good speeches do not make a successful council presidency. but what we lack above all are concrete results, constructive proposals and serious negotiations with the european parliament to solve the problems and to find answers to the people's questions. we can only build trust with new partnerships and sustainable solutions. perhaps your foreign minister has just betrayed himself a little when he did not look ahead but said: 'the importance of the presidency is already behind us, namely croatia and turkey.' i ask you: are these really the priorities of the citizens of europe? are these really the questions that people who are out of work, europe, which needs to become more competitive, are asking? i said no. maybe they have the wrong priorities. we can't make a successful presidency with just a statement of intent. all six points of hampton court, mr president of the council, are politically correct, but they are largely outside the competence of the european union. if you want us to achieve what you yourself are proposing, then give us the powers, give us the money, do not prevent europe from moving towards political union. do not interfere with the common foreign and security policy. the commission's proposal is not a new one. there's two billion euros between your proposal and the contract. the difference between your proposal and the commission's proposal is over 100 billion euros. tell the people what you want to take away from them before pretending to be on the side of the citizens.... (the president withdraws the floor.)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. after a very tense debate on chemicals policy, it is also quite relaxing to come back to a subject on which there has already been a very large majority in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and which i believe will be again tomorrow. the commission proposal of 2004 - and this was said by commissioner dimas - is the instrument for implementing the international agreement. in the committee on the environment, my proposal to reject the commission's proposal was adopted almost unanimously, with 47 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. the reasons for my refusal are as follows: as the proposal falls under the environmental policy chapter, the european union is obliged to base the legislative proposal on the latest scientific evidence. that is the basis that is lacking. the only agreement adopted almost verbatim is the one negotiated almost ten years ago. in addition, there are legal inconsistencies between the proposal and other eu legislation, such as the directive on the protection of animals used for experimental purposes and the habitats directive. the commission proposal allows the capture and killing of animals protected by the habitats directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not left behind. the proposal is generally very weak and will do nothing to reduce the suffering of trapped or killed animals. i think, and the commissioner has made this clear, that in order to understand the european parliament's strong rejection, one must also take a historical perspective. in 1989 the european parliament adopted a resolution calling for a ban on plate irons in the european union and a ban on the import of furs and fur products from countries where plate irons are used. in response, a regulation on this subject was adopted in 1991. the regulation prohibits the use of plate irons and the importation of fur from 13 named species from third countries from 1995. this prohibition shall not apply if one of the two conditions is fulfilled. that is why these international agreements have been concluded. appropriate laws, regulations or administrative provisions shall be in place to prohibit trawl fisheries unless the fishing methods used for those animals comply with internationally agreed humane fishing standards. the eu regulation made it imperative to establish catch standards at international level to prevent the import ban. the eu, canada, russia and the us negotiated an agreement following threats by the us and canada to challenge these import restrictions at the wto. however, so far only the european union and canada have ratified the convention. the catch standards required by the convention reflect standards already in force in russia, canada and the usa and cannot be considered humane in any way. in 1997, the european parliament adopted a report in which it called the international agreement totally inadequate in terms of animal welfare and environmental objectives. the european parliament was completely unacceptable to the accession to this convention, and an agreement which does not offer the slightest guarantee that the other parties will stop using all plate iron within a rapid and fixed time frame should not be proposed for serious consideration. this report was adopted by a large majority in this house in 1997. that was the historical review. i hope that tomorrow we will have a large parliamentary majority to reject what i consider to be a very bad commission proposal, and i also hope that the commission will show the necessary democratic understanding and withdraw this proposal for a directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. the vote in committee was clear. i think we all welcome the fact that there are regulations in place to protect wildlife. i therefore believe that a comprehensive approach would be desirable. just look at the big differences that the habitats directive and the birds directive make compared to the protection of other animals: they are not always justified. of course, it is also important to consider the fact that animals can cause dangerous damage. i mean, you have to make a distinction and put the human good first. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but since there is also a dispute about this basis of competence, this question must be examined again very thoroughly in order to have legal certainty. if we follow the european commission and the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, these are articles 175 et seq. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. matter is too important not to get the best out of it for both animals and people. it is also important to bear in mind that the principle of subsidiarity naturally also gives member states the possibility of adopting strict animal welfare rules, but also of putting the safety of people first.
the commission has already done so. on the one hand we have great powers, such as russia, which are reducing their arsenals, and on the other hand the number of those states, but unfortunately also the number of criminal organizations, which have the necessary knowledge to produce weapons of mass destruction, is increasing. in 2004 alone, intelligence agencies worldwide reported more than 300 cases of illicit handling of nuclear material. the more widespread the necessary know-how, the more difficult it becomes to obtain it by conventional methods. the war in iraq and the stand-off with north korea have given many governments the impression that only nuclear weapons are a sufficient safeguard against military intervention. the fact that israel has nuclear weapons, for example, makes it clear that iran must develop nuclear weapons. at the same time, the risk of terrorists obtaining these weapons is increasing, and strict action is needed to counteract this development. if we can tighten up the code of conduct on arms sales and thereby prevent eu countries from selling arms to third countries which use them against their own population or for external aggression, we will undoubtedly be sending an important signal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's green paper and the wuermeling report are the first steps towards meeting the wishes of the people, the citizens of europe. the citizens of the european union, when asked what objectives they should set for themselves, say that they should set themselves a defence and security union. if we ask the citizens what they want, they say a common foreign policy with one face and one person and not 25 national interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm not sure. we therefore need more europe in this area, not necessarily more money. but if we need more europe but do not have more money, then we must change our behaviour. we want a common foreign and security policy, we want the eu to develop into a political union, we want a strong internal market and we want to reduce dependence on the united states. so what can be done? we need common technological standards in europe in this field to enable and strengthen cooperation. we must create common defence structures which are part of a process of political cooperation, integration and solidarity. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. this debate shows that we need more europe. the council is not present, perhaps because the large member states in particular - i am thinking of the united kingdom and france - although they talk a lot about the common market, are among the stumbling blocks on the road to a stronger commission in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that the reach compromise has produced a paper which will serve as a good basis for negotiations with the council. my group and i voted in favour of the part concerning authorization. we have agreed to this, although we are against the limitation of the time limit for substances to five years. we would like to stress that we are in principle in favour of this block, but we would have liked to see these five years removed because a case-by-case decision would have been much better and much more manageable for the industry. but on the whole we have achieved something that has never been achieved before, namely a level of environmental protection that is certainly unique in the world.
in writing. i would like to take this opportunity, as part of my explanation of vote on reach, to congratulate the animal welfare and environmental organisations on their great and comprehensive commitment! rain, wind and cold do not deter those involved from taking action on a cause that is important for people and the environment and from raising awareness of the problems associated with the controversial chemicals regulation. it is simply essential to make changes to the commission's proposal, not least to prevent the use of millions of animals for animal testing and to promote animal-free testing!
in writing. if 85% of all chemicals in circulation are not tested for their risks to people and the environment, then it is high time to finally make up for this failure. we can no longer accept that our citizens are being used as guinea pigs for chemicals that are in everyday products such as computers and toys, that are absorbed through skin contact or the respiratory tract and that have never been tested for their hazards. the bill for this criminal neglect is already being presented to us in the form of rising allergy rates and thousands of cases of occupational respiratory or skin diseases. the highest priority must of course be to test and withdraw from the market all substances suspected of being carcinogenic and/or mutagenic. it should not have been possible to work with substances whose effects are not known. in essence, therefore, the future registration of new substances will require that they are safe. there simply must be no more horror stories about toxic dyes in clothes, aggressive fragrances in cosmetics or flame retardants in breast milk. but we will not achieve this if the original proposal is watered down to the point where, out of 100 000 chemicals not tested, 88 000 remain untested. that is why i voted against the reports.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the next big round of negotiations is in hong kong, and i think we must make sure that multilateralism is not lost in this round. as it stands, the signs are very bad, and i'm wondering what offers we can make if this round fails. i asked commissioner mandelson this week what he thought of a free trade area between europe, america, canada and australia. where would the african countries be? should they then organise themselves or should they conclude bilateral agreements with these largest markets in the world? who would benefit and who would suffer? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that the slogan is "free sme" - free markets for small businesses. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote cooperation between family farms in africa, in europe and worldwide, in order to lay the foundations for prosperity. we need a fair system of public procurement, we need proper competition law and, ultimately, we need investment protection for those companies which are then prepared to operate in these countries. so how can we turn development aid into self-help, into aid for our small and mediumsized enterprises? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european investment bank would also have a major role to play in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perhaps we could, and that would have been the speech by mr graham watson, return to the commissioner's proposal for the next meeting in december. that would be a compromise.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are faced in the coming days and weeks with one of the most important decisions for europe. i would like to thank mr pearson and especially commissioner mandelson very much for their awareness that reaching agreement in the wto round is a lot of work in the first place. it means exact, good preparation, it means developing a strategy, and it means ultimately bringing home a result that satisfies all parties. it will be very difficult, but there is a possibility of creating a win-win situation. the worst case scenario for all involved would be that we come back from hong kong and say: we have achieved nothing, everything is the same. we can clearly assume that if things stay the same, nothing will be the same and that we run the risk of provoking a new trade war. we saw this in the steel dispute, when our phones suddenly went hot in the european parliament because the companies and the unions called here to tell us that they had to lay off hundreds and thousands of people because it was no longer possible to export with 100% tariffs. a third of our employment is ultimately dependent on exports. this is particularly true of small and mediumsized enterprises. two thirds of our employees work in small and mediumsized enterprises, which pay 80% of the taxes. i would ask the commissioner and the council to take real action here so that the singapore criteria, which are so important for the development of family farms and small and mediumsized enterprises, can finally be seriously discussed at international level and that we can also examine the approach which can help us to make progress in the negotiations. it is simply a matter of opening up the market in a balanced way, which is very important for all of us, so that our exports can also support the lisbon strategy in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thirty years after the end of the vietnam war, which engulfed cambodia and laos, the human rights situation in these three countries of southeast asia remains unsatisfactory. we repeat ourselves, but it does not matter, you cannot point out these problems often enough. in laos, there is a single party that excludes all opposition. the country is isolated from the rest of the world, there is no freedom of speech and religion, not to mention opium production, illegal timber trade and the abuse of minors. in cambodia, women's and children's rights are ignored, and opposition and its supporters are suppressed. the independence of the judiciary is not guaranteed, the immunity of parliamentarians is revoked and journalists are imprisoned. in vietnam too, despite economic progress and a certain willingness to acknowledge human rights issues, freedom of speech and the press are severely restricted and religious oppression, whether by buddhist or roman catholic priests, is still a sad reality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. eu aid must be linked to these political conditions. in this sense, the joint motion for a resolution is not only a pious wish but an appeal to all the institutions of the european union!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you very sincerely to take the following matters into consideration. there are major problems with the delegation of this parliament to the eu-fyrom joint parliamentary committee and to macedonia. the president, mr georgios papastamkos, whose qualities i do not wish to criticize here, has repeatedly created problems, especially in the sitting of 29 november! he not only criticized the ambassador of the country with which we are friends, not only interrupted him, but he even shouted at him in the meeting. it is absolutely impossible for us to dictate how an ambassador calls his own country. he refers to his country as macedonia, as do many members of this house. the chairman of this delegation must accept that. it is absolutely impossible for the members of my group to work with this current chairman unless he changes his ways and commits himself to the customs of this house, to respect and to courtesy. i ask you, mr president, to ensure that this happens, otherwise we would have to ask the representatives of the european people's party to arrange for another chairman. i urge you to preserve the diplomacy and customs of this house and to show the respect due to a country that is a friend of ours.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. since we put our oral question, some additional activities have already taken place. we have had a hearing with your representatives in the legal affairs committee, we have now received the commission's communication, and we have generally welcomed both the findings of the european court of justice and the commission's communication. i think it is good that the commission also clearly states that the applicability of this finding of the european court of justice goes beyond the case namely, an environmental case and concerns all policies, in particular the four freedoms of the treaty. there have been proposals to limit the applicability to the objectives of article 2. i have already spoken against this in the legal affairs committee and therefore i think it is good that the commission's position is expressed in this way. what we have to work out together is how we are going to carry out this transfer of, possibly, other files from the third pillar to the first pillar. the two ways available to us here are those you have described in principle. the first is that we do not make any substantial changes, but merely change the legal basis and do not, with the help of an interinstitutional agreement, re-wrap the whole thing in terms of content. the second possibility would be to use the ordinary co-decision procedure, whereby the commission would be able to make substantial changes to the content. i would prefer to take this approach, subject to further debate. i think it's the more modern one. we have ten new member states who are certainly also interested in contributing to the legislative acts now, which they were not able to do before accession, so unless i am convinced of something better, i am in favour of taking this matter through the normal legislative procedure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you use your leadership to make political statements, then we can say that it's about image. but what sounds so technical here is a matter of principle in the community. the vat question is always about fairness. it is clear that this european union, out of weakness - because the way we organise ourselves is no longer toothless - is now increasingly resorting to the prosthesis of vat in order to be able to accumulate some of the tax revenues that deserve the name. it is very unfair, because as we know, it often happens to the wrong people. two austrians could perhaps serve as an example. you know one, bruno kreisky, and you'll probably get to know the other even better, karl-heinz grasser. kreisky has clearly recognised that we are not going to get anywhere with these approaches, that we must start where we can get back a little of what is lost elsewhere, especially as regards the level of vat. so what the rich really enjoy: the luxury limousines, the yachts, the extra real estate, that is now to be prevented by this amendment. i think that's wrong. karl-heinz grasser is trying, at least in austria - and i think this is exemplary - to prevent international companies from being able to postpone the deduction of input tax without ever having to pay vat. the future presidency of the council may have a chance of making some progress at least at european level in closing the vat loopholes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. most of the previous speakers have shown that the approach in this context is unprofessional and irresponsible towards market participants both companies and customers and creates more uncertainty than clarity. i think that there is no certainty in planning and that the homework has not been done sufficiently in both the council and the commission. otherwise we would not have such a mess of reports, delays and extensions of provisional periods in the timetable without ever really finding a solution. the word tax has a double meaning. tax is tax. tax policy is a regulatory instrument in economic policy. if we do not achieve greater clarity and competence in this area at european level, if we do not have a comprehensive tax debate, if we do not have a uniform basis of assessment for corporate taxation, if we do not close the tax loopholes, if we do not have a uniform tax system for occupational retirement provision, we will not be able to achieve many of our policy objectives for growth and employment because we do not have the instrument in hand. i therefore advocate a comprehensive tax debate rather than one based on individual points. i am in favour of a long-term approach to taxation between member states, not one which takes place at three minutes to twelve, which ends in the extension and thus does not provide a solution. both examples show us that what is coming out now is also only a provisional measure that will not help us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to support the cause absolutely. it is not acceptable that the commission is proposing that we lose competence! so i would like to support sending this back to committee.
in writing. in some respects it is understandable that the new member states should be anxious to adopt the euro quickly. however, it should not be overlooked that only 38% of citizens in the 10 new eu countries are convinced of the positive effects of the introduction of the euro and almost half are in favour of a late entry. we should accept this wish, since it offers the countries concerned the possibility of implementing the necessary reforms at a slower pace and more time for the population to adjust to the changed circumstances. last but not least, past experience shows that, despite all the denials, the introduction of the euro leads to higher prices, as companies try to recover the costs of conversion. the commission should support a referendum to test the will of the people, as planned in poland, rather than respond by saying that poland is committed to adopting the euro, especially as a lesson from the failure of the eu constitution. if countries like the united kingdom, denmark and sweden can retain their monetary autonomy, then we should allow others to do so as well.
in writing. i reject the joint motion for a resolution tabled on the preparations for the sixth wto ministerial conference in hong kong. the requirements and considerations contained in it are too narrow and i would have liked to see much broader demands on the social dimension in the wto. non-trade aspects such as social, environmental and cultural issues should be included in the doha round! international minimum social standards are not a form of trade protectionism but are seen as facilitating 'fairer' trade, as there is an interaction between trade and social issues. i believe that the binding incorporation of minimum labour standards into the wto agreements is a prerequisite for equitable economic and social development. the prohibition of child labour, the right to equal pay for men and women, the abolition of forced labour, the recognition of trade unions and the so-called freedom of collective bargaining are among the most basic minimum labour standards and are in any case binding on most nations within the framework of the ilo. the establishment of a fair world trade system requires that such binding minimum labour standards, as well as compliance with international environmental standards, be placed on an equal footing with the prevailing wto trade law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. critical is the fact that a competent candidate was asked to resign because he stands by his conservative religious convictions, but an incompetent stalinist remains in office. it is not at all the case that questionable candidates who conceal such as party donation affairs very well get on the train. the commission has already made a number of recommendations to the council, and it is not the first time that the commission has made a proposal to the council. it is also embarrassing that there is no consensus on how to assess the competence and aptitude of a future commissioner, and that this leads to a variety of different standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the criteria and guidelines are uniform. on the one hand, we should finally be given the opportunity to judge through individual commissioners-designate, instead of being fed with a global vote. on the other hand, it is essential that we agree on uniform evaluation criteria within parliament. the member states must also be more careful in their pre-selection and only recruit qualified candidates. it would certainly be useful to draw up a list of proposals from which the most suitable candidates can be selected. it is the only way to prevent future farces.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that may have been lost in translation. the request of the president of the group of the european people's party, mr schulz, was that the president of the council should make a statement on this matter in his statement on wednesday, and that he should convey a clear position of the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we want to support this cause, because if it is urgent, then it is certainly a very urgent matter, as is also confirmed by the demonstrations which my colleague watson has already mentioned. it is a bit of a shock to us that the development in hong kong is not proceeding as we wished and as partly promised by the government of the people's republic of china. this is not a measure directed against china or the people's republic, but a measure we want to take for the people of hong kong by supporting them in their legitimate desire to develop democracy. china should understand that this attempt to develop democracy in hong kong would have great benefits for china itself. we are therefore supporting this proposal. (parliament adopted the proposal for a modification)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to refer today to the debate on the austrian ban on wildlife in circuses, which was initiated by the european commission. according to article 27 of the austrian federal animal welfare act, no species of wild animals may be kept or used for entertainment in circuses, variety shows and similar establishments. instead of welcoming austria's positive leadership in this area, the austrian government received a letter of formal notice from the commission. the commission is threatening to repeal the ban on wildlife in circuses, which is at least partially in force in austria and other eu member states, on the grounds that the ban on wild animals would be contrary to the freedom to provide services. the protection of animals should be a value of undisputed public interest and therefore also an argument to justify a restriction on the freedom to provide services. the classical circus is not supposed to be based on working with animals. there are also very famous circuses, which are very attractive without wild animal acts! the protection and welfare of animals must be the first priority, whether it is the keeping of wild animals in circuses or the unspeakable conditions in which animals are transported.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs wallis. we are different colleagues in the legal affairs committee who deal with immunity cases, but i think this was a particularly difficult and delicate case which also required very careful consideration in the legal affairs committee and was not so easy for you personally, if i understood correctly. we in the socialist group have supported the conclusions of the rapporteur. we also believe that the immunity of this house should not be used here. i would also like to make a personal comment: in my home district, in my constituency, there is the former mauthausen concentration camp. i would like to invite you to come with me to visit this camp if you still have doubts about the existence of these concentration camps. you will also find survivors in the surrounding area, you will find people in my home population who have helped the few refugees who were able to escape from this camp. and today, we're honoring a woman who helped back then. i would like to know what you mean by that.
deputy writer. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would first like to apologize to the rapporteur, mrs piia-noora kauppi. it regrets that it was not able to come to the debate on its own report in time because of problems encountered on arrival. this does not mean that she has given her approval to this report; i am not saying that the commission has not done its job, but that it has done a good job and i would like to thank it very much. what's the matter? the commissioner de facto presented the draft report in the first part, which shows that the european parliament is open to factual justification, and in the second part he pointed out that we have a problem with each other as regards comitology. i am glad that you said at the end that if we decide as proposed - and we will decide as proposed, commissioner - then you are on our side. it is good that the commission and parliament are on the same page on questions of parliamentary fundamental rights, democratic fundamental rights and the right to participate in decision-making, especially in relation to the council. this also applies to the comitology procedure and the sunset clause. my colleague alexander radwan will go into this in more detail. what is mifid? not everyone understands that. firstly, it concerns the amendment of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on markets in financial instruments. secondly, the extension of the deadlines for implementation. why do we want to extend the deadlines for implementation? because the directive will bring significant changes for market participants and national authorities, because implementation depends on the development and implementation of the necessary technical measures, and because, unfortunately, these are only now being developed and the package of measures to implement 17 provisions is not due to be adopted until 2006. so implementation is delayed at level 2, and actually implementation is not completed until after mifid should have been in force. we are in favour of extending the deadlines for implementation because it is the so-called lamfalussy procedure and the process must be conducted in accordance with the comitology procedure. what are we gonna do? we are therefore extending the transposition deadlines, we are extending the duration of the old isd directive until mifid is applied, i.e. until 1 november 2007. we are therefore not changing the content of the directive on markets in financial instruments, but rather the form. we are preventing a legal vacuum with these implementation deadlines. in addition to these formal adjustments to reality, we are also changing the comitology procedure within mifid. why would you do that? i do not understand your first objection, commissioner. we are doing this because we simply want to adopt the comitology provisions which we agreed with the council in the framework of the basel ii equity directive - quote: sunset clause - in the exact form they were. this creates legal certainty. it also makes clear what we want. the proposals so far do not correspond to the legislative powers of the european parliament, and it is right and proper to extend an agreement we have reached to other directives which are about the same thing. i therefore ask all members to stick to the committee's decision in the vote in plenary tomorrow, because this will not only provide a practical solution but also strengthen parliament.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to point out that a report by the committee on petitions was drawn up on this matter in may 2004, which described serious violations of human rights and community law on the basis of specific cases. a delegation from this parliament went on a fact-finding mission in june of this year and spoke to various political parties, citizens, local residents, and also to representatives of regional governments and the constitutional court in valencia. we must know that the current land legislation in spain grants land owners 90% of the development rights and, due to the special nature of the law in question, this land use act, obliges owners in the event of a development project by a local authority to give up 10% of their land without compensation. we also need to know that many property owners have clearly been harmed by these development processes. in addition, some development plans have a devastating impact on the environment and the ecological balance of many coastal areas and, in particular, on the future situation of water supply, which is also a concern of the european union. i therefore very much welcome the fact that the region of valencia is revising this law and has already presented a new law. we must ensure that in particular a clear definition of the public interest is enshrined in law, in order to avoid the possibility that the justification for expropriation in the public interest is used much more often in favour of private interests than in favour of public interests. in addition, there must be binding criteria for the calculation of compensation for expropriation based on standards and principles recognised by the case law of the ecj and the european court of human rights. in this particular case, however, we must also be careful that the european parliament does not give the citizens too many hopes which it may not be able to fulfil.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lack of a common strategy on tax matters means that the welfare state level in central europe can no longer be maintained and that this is increasingly becoming the primary cause of job movements and job losses. the harmonization of commercial and tax rules on profit-making must now become a high priority. transnational companies are no longer visible even to tax experts. the tax base must be harmonised; tax systems for businesses must be transparent, comparable and harmonised! we must put an end to tax incentives and special economic zones which have nothing in common with tax competition. the council can no longer sit on the political stage while its tax policy presents us with more and more unhealthy distortions of competition. ireland was hardly enough, ireland times ten or twelve is too much! i ask you, commissioner, who is to pay the price for this? the workers?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is not a statement on the subject, but only the statement of my committee. my group is in favour of this. i would just ask, in line with what mr ford has said, that the commission and the council too, when they make requests for urgency, not only state why it is urgent, but also state why they are making the requests for urgency only now. it is really important to avoid a long period of time passing and then finally a request for urgency without perhaps having been necessary. perhaps you or the bureau can ask the commission and the council to explain this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. these weeks, as every year at this time, we are experiencing the greatest period of waste in the european union. it is about surpluses, and that is shown in the small things, which unfortunately can always be deduced very accurately later on. yesterday the committee on budgets discussed a point which one wonders why it was put on the agenda in the first place, namely the purchase of a eur 3 million building for the european parliament in la valletta (the commission was supposed to be the sub-tenant). all five maltese meps are against this, saying it is too remote and difficult to access, and they prefer to stay cheap. but you have to, because there's a surplus and it has to be spent. then there is a colleague of yours, mr president, vice-president onesta, who says: 'this is a good investment in real estate, and i promise you, in three years, if we find something better, we will sell the building at a profit and move on.' the european parliament is becoming a real estate speculator because it has too much money. and then you wonder why, in malta in particular, citizens are asking themselves what this is all about. what a waste, what an attitude. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the budget. the present budgetary approach does not guarantee that. i too will be among those who will of course vote against it.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i cannot help but notice one thing. mrs grossetête, your group has asked for this debate to be held today. but when i look at the presence of your group, it is not exactly exhilarating. madam vice-president, we have the great advantage of supporting the commission where we think it is going in the right direction and criticizing it where we think it is lacking. as for plan d - to begin with, which you are personally responsible for - you will find full support in this group. i hope that next year you will be able to bring the question of the constitution and the debate on it closer to the citizens with full force and thus fulfill your role. as regards president barroso's criticism of the draft budget of the presidency - he said that it was a mini-budget for a mini-europe - we share that criticism. our chairman martin schulz has made this clear. i hope that the president will remain strong enough in the talks to assert the interests of all europe. as regards better regulation, we agree with you that the real aim is to make european legislation more efficient and transparent, so that it is more understandable to the citizen. in this context, i ask all of you on behalf of the commission to read the draft services directive and then say whether this is understandable, whether this is better legislation. aside from the social content, it would be very interesting to discuss this with you. but we can do that next year. i would like to draw attention to two points to which we in the socialist group will pay particular attention next year. the first is the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms in europe. we have seen some particularly worrying developments here recently, and not just in connection with the activities of the cia. i am referring here to the restriction of trade union rights in slovakia, for example. i am referring in this context to various ideas recently expressed in the new member state of poland on the question of fundamental rights and freedoms, including for example that of homosexuals. these are all developments which we are looking at with concern. i would like to give my full support to commissioner frattini and ask him to make it clear that he is defending the rights and standards of europe. that's all we ask here. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we in our group also know that jobs are not guaranteed in the long term. we in our group also know that many people have to change jobs all the time. but that is precisely why it would be important for this commission to have a sharper, clearer social profile. many citizens - and you know this, madam vice-president, because you are in dialogue with citizens - even think that the eu is adding to the negative effects of globalisation. you see that many - and unfortunately many companies - are abusing the european union, enlargement and globalisation to undermine social standards. this concern is not only in the so-called old member states but also in the new member states. the european commission must therefore become more active in the field of social policy. it must help to avoid or at least to reduce the negative effects without creating the illusion that we can build a protective wall around europe. i therefore call on the commission, on behalf of my group, to submit a legislative proposal on the subject of atypical employment relationships, to present a viable approach to the globalisation fund - unlike the presidency of the council - and finally to propose a framework directive on services of general interest, because these services of general interest are precisely what connect citizens with the public sector. here they need support and not infiltration from the european union and the european commission. madam vice-president of the commission, we in our group are not social romantics, but we know that if we do not make europe more social, if we do not emphasize the social dimension in the debate on globalisation and the opening up of markets, we will not win over the citizens of this continent to our project. but this is absolutely necessary and we need the support of the commission. i would like to ask you to do so on behalf of my group. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to ask for clarification. amendments nos 1 and 2, which were voted on by roll call, have been rejected. but you also said that we need the qualified majority. but 328 votes is not a qualified majority, as i have seen the votes against. i would ask for clarification as to what procedure we are going to use.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is an important objective of european environmental policy to introduce battery collection systems in all eu countries now. unfortunately, amendment no 26 was not adopted and it is certainly the less ambitious objective that is now being pursued. but the fact is that by introducing recycling quotas we will also achieve very good environmental standards and that we can recycle raw materials. the prohibitions on nickel, cadmium and lead are also to be classified in this objective. we can exert pressure by substituting dangerous substances and still allowing a few exceptions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of bruno gollnisch because i see in his prosecution unconcealed virtue terror against a non-conformist parliamentarian and scientist. the right to freedom of expression is guaranteed by article 10 of the european convention on human rights, article 19 of the charter of human rights and article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights. the majority of this house has apparently forgotten that. bruno gollnisch spoke at a political press conference in lyon on 11 october 2004, and of course as a politician who is primarily an mep. his statements on contemporary history may be dismissed. but of course they were made in his capacity as an eu parliamentarian. and in that capacity, he should rightly be protected by immunity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the fourtou report we have dealt with the situation in spain, in the region of valencia. many european citizens felt that they were being treated very unfairly there because of poor regional regulations and, above all, their misinterpretation by regional, local and national authorities. it is to be welcomed that the region of valencia has been very cooperative after our intervention and is now changing the law in particular. the new law is being drafted. we should make it clear that the european parliament has no power to repeal bad regional regulations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. instead of protecting the rights and privacy of citizens, telecommunications and media usage secrets are increasingly undermined. of course, all this is always and solely for the noble purpose of fighting terrorism. i just wonder why more and more unpopular journalists are being targeted and what is the protection of the citizen when the state is turning on non-conformist forces. the real criminals in organized gangs and terrorist groups not only plan their actions in the longer term - making the planned retention time obsolete - but they also find new ways to evade government prosecution. i believe that this new surveillance measure is not in any way preventing terrorist acts, but is putting at risk the professional activities of those who carry secrets, such as doctors, lawyers and journalists, and is indiscriminately interfering with the privacy of countless citizens. if the storage of data is to be built up as a further step towards a total surveillance state, then i believe that a minimum level of protection for the citizen in the form of really strong sanctions against the misuse of this stored data is essential.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the council and the commission have recently agreed on the retention of data. i am glad that after long and intensive negotiations it has been possible to reach an agreement, a compromise, also between the european parliament, the council and the commission. i can support this compromise. i would like to thank in particular our negotiators in the european parliament, who have really tried their best. we must be aware, however, that we are in a state of tension between the protection of fundamental rights and the fight against international terrorism and organised crime. i also welcome in principle the obligation of telecommunications companies to store certain traffic data for the purpose of fighting organised crime. i think that a retention period of three months would have been perfectly sufficient. but we have that compromise now, and i think flexibility is acceptable. a glass man cannot and must not be the goal of our democracies. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism, and the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism. i therefore very much hope that a common european line will finally be found in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. just as the international organizations that are against law and order are networked, we must also come together and fight these organizations together. i hope very much that we will never have to experience again the tragic events of madrid or london or anything like that! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. the united states should also feel bound by minimum standards of human rights without having to deal with them in secret prisons abroad. but there are still human rights violations within the european union, particularly in the form of domestic violence, honour killings, polygamy and massive discrimination against women, which we indirectly condone if we accept this within the framework of islam in europe. in turkey itself, almost 80% of all women living in villages are forced into marriage. discrimination against minorities and members of other religions continues. given that in 2004 more asylum applications were submitted by turks than by iraqis throughout the eu, and that turkey remains the second largest country of origin for asylum seekers in germany in 2005, for example, the actual implementation of human rights in turkish society cannot be accepted as a reality. and this in a country that is negotiating to join the eu!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have here the draft voting list for the wortmann-kool report on heavy goods vehicle charges. the design - and i hope it stays that way - is more than simple. we can say yes to the compromise negotiated by the rapporteur in the informal trilogue. if we do that, we shall be voting on one of the most difficult european transport dossiers at second reading later this year. with a balance between the needs of the european economic area with free movement of goods in the single market of 25 and over and a road-cost directive which also takes environmental concerns and the health of people who have to live along european transport routes much more into account than before. a no is different. the danger is that it will be said: legislative mandate failed back to the state! my group, the epp-ed, and, i hope, most of the other political groups in this house will say yes to the rapporteur's proposals because they are good and because we thereby recognise the rapporteur's work. she's shown in this dossier that even sisyphus' work can succeed. thank you very much, corien. i would also like to thank vice-president barrot. he and his staff have used their vast expertise and even greater commitment to promote and make possible the compromise. thank you, jacques! you are truly a mountain man! i would also like to thank the british presidency. you probably didn't get much praise this last semester, but you've earned it. a final word as an austrian: 15 years ago we started to re-shape european transport policy in such a way that it also takes into account environmental and health concerns. we were laughed at. we're ready now!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the decision on the upward limitation of the toll, which we shall take on thursday, is also a decision on a missed opportunity. i want that clear. tolls are a hot topic. we also had very heated debates and close votes in the transport committee. the main issue was the cost of transport. she's the one who's stirred up the most. the commission has been facing the most severe opposition from the ministers of transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental costs of the waste are not passed on to the consumer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not left to the detriment of the railways themselves. we have achieved a great deal in our negotiations with the council, but not enough. but i thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for what has been achieved. we will be able to take on board a large part of what has been negotiated, but not the gaps. the following gaps exist: the germans, with the exception that they do not have to charge tolls for vehicles up to 12 tonnes. it's going to take forever, i'm afraid. the italians with their multiple-driver bonus. it's going to take forever. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road network is not affected by the accident.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i want to express my high regard and respect for your really hard work. the present state of discussions on the road costs directive is more or less satisfactory. the welcome results are due primarily to the pressure exerted by the european parliament and the committee on transport and tourism and, within our institution, to the refreshing and engaged approach of the rapporteur and, above all, of those colleagues who sit more to the left and in the centre of this house. the so-called eurovignette directive is, in any case, a decision for the future which should and must move towards a transport policy which is more friendly to people and the environment. the essential point is that the directive can be applied to lorries over 3.5 tonnes, apart from the peculiar german exceptions mentioned by mrs lichtenberger, and that not only roads belonging to the transeuropean transport network can be paved, but also alternate and parallel routes. but above all, the inclusion of external costs would have been much more important and would have had to be done more quickly. this would have been a great step, but unfortunately we did not take it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the difficulties faced by disabled people - sensory disabled, physical disabled - in travelling by air could have filled entire books. we have known these difficulties and we have known about them. it is a sad sign for a society that it needs its own policy to remove obstacles to the ability of people who are already disadvantaged enough in their lives to travel. i thank my colleague mr evans. he did a great job, and it was a wonderful partnership! i would also like to thank the disabled people's associations for their helpful suggestions and i would ask the member states to speed up the implementation and enforcement of this directive, particularly at airports, so that it becomes a real christmas present.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for the first time in 11 years, a president of the council has waived his right to speak after the first round of discussions. the way is so short from the glory of a presidency to its misery, from its glacier-like appearance on the european stage to its failure in the eyes of the public, from its great promises to its shredded dish! and this is a news flash today on the british presidency of the council. it started with trumpets and ended with the death bell at the crypt. six months ago, you promised the people leadership. they wanted to win back the people's trust. i feel sorry for you. tony blair is responsible for the grand staging, you for the shredded dish. i'm not surprised you're not going to say anything about it. you promised leadership and you showed us national egoism. they have presented europe to us as a nationalist bazaar of interests, as a europe of governments. you wanted to win back trust, but in these six months, because of your policies, according to all the polls, the trust of the people in all the countries has fallen dramatically. the financial perspective: they have committed themselves to a europe of solidarity and are the ones who are dividing the union's finances. you are creating a two-class europe. they are denouncing solidarity with the member states. you have announced major reforms and made your approval of the financial perspective conditional on an agricultural reform. now, by cutting regional development funds, you are destroying the only reform that has worked so far. they wanted to find ways of creating a social europe, and the result of hampton court was that there is no social model in europe at all. these are the pathetic results! the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. it was left to your minister of the interior to be the first representative of a democratic government to declare the european convention on human rights obsolete. the question of the prohibition of torture in particular casts a strange light on the british presidency of the council. perhaps this is the explanation for why this presidency of the council has failed the citizens in the biggest fundamental rights case, namely the alleged crimes of abduction and kidnapping and the utter incompetence of the british government. i have only one question for the british presidency of the council: when will you stop travelling to europe and when will you start living in europe?
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! we have worked well with the british presidency on many points. the problem is that you are jeopardizing the reputation of this cooperation if you do not come up with a reasonable, realistic budget. you said a realistic budget. i would like to make two very brief points. they come from a region which has managed to develop itself from agriculture to research and development into a leading region, thanks in particular to european funding. why do you now want to deny this to other regions by massively cutting these modern means of rural development and research or by not creating the conditions for this in the enlarged union? the question of enlargement. i share your view that we should negotiate with turkey and that it would be good to achieve a greater europe with turkey. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the year 2000 and whether he is prepared to accept the budget for the year 2000 as a whole. do you think it is realistic to include the balkan countries in this enlargement? this is unbelievable! the citizens cannot accept that. that is why i do not understand your proposal. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. i can only ask you to change your mind. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what has happened so far is unacceptable to the european parliament and to the citizens of europe! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! mr president-in-office of the council, the united kingdom is the main cause of the failure of the luxembourg summit. but of course the rejection of european responsibility by the heads of state and government and their almost daily contributions to renationalization, to the division of european union policy into internal and european policy, are not your problem alone. but you're always provoking, and you're also playing the blackmail card. you're here today, tony blair is missing again. i knew why i filed a missing persons report on october 12th. they are here, and the proposal for the summit comes after the debate! you told us a few days ago that if you don't get the vote, you'll be voting against everything next year. this is blackmail. what have you done in the last six months to counter this unsolidarist, irresponsible self-image of council policy? two rhetorical fireworks by tony blair in the european parliament do not make a successful council presidency. on the contrary, i am. they confirm the contradiction between words and reality, between aims and deeds, between tasks and competences, between announcements and achievements, between the written glove and the contractual, moral and political obligations. i can't understand your mentality. how do you tell the citizens that you want to reduce competitiveness, that you want to spend less on internal and external security, that you want to put less money on the table in 2007 than we agreed for the 2006 budget, that you want to weaken europe's role in the world? the more arrogant you become to the citizens of europe and to your european parliament, the more confident and determined we become, and the more angry the citizens become. the only way to negotiate is on the basis of mutual respect, respect for common rules and objectives, on an equal footing. we are not the agents of the national interests of individual governments, but we are on the side of the community of europe, a european union capable of action and decision, solidary and united. we cannot allow the future of the european union to be reduced to a failure of the presidency or the council. we in parliament must take the lead because you are leaving a vacuum. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
in writing. the proportionality and balance of interests between security and the fundamental freedoms of citizens is of great importance to me and cannot be guaranteed by this directive. the retention of data is seen as an important tool for the investigative authorities in the fight against terrorism, and according to the current legal situation, the data stored by operators for billing purposes can already be accessed by court order in the telephone area. furthermore, no agreement or definition could be found on the costs of storage, leaving the future impact on industry and consumers more than uncertain. i too believe that telecommunications data are of vital importance in the investigation of crime and in the fight against international terrorism. the fact is, however, that we already have a wide margin of manoeuvre in this area which, unlike the proposed directive, is compatible with the respect for the fundamental rights of every individual.
in writing. the fear of terrorism must no longer be used to erode basic rights and freedoms step by step in favour of a totalitarian surveillance state. since the september 11 attacks, there has been a tendency to target whistleblowers - journalists - as well as those who are unpopular or nonconformist. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's maritime sector. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the internet in the area of road safety. however, in the best case, only small fish are caught, as criminal organisations and terrorist networks are usually successful in evading prosecution. since terrorists often plan their actions years in advance, storing information simply cannot prevent terrorist acts. instead, there is a continuous subsidization of network hardware, unjustified intrusions into privacy and the disruption of the professional lives of those who hold secrets, such as doctors, journalists and lawyers. although the impact and consequential costs of the proposed directive cannot yet be assessed in any serious way, it is in no way acceptable to leave citizens completely unprotected by this massive restriction of fundamental rights. at the very least, it must be protected against possible abuse in the form of strict deterrent sanctions, otherwise the result will soon be an internet like the chinese model.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have adopted legislation in this parliament today which is very important in the fight against terrorism. the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism. but we are equally determined to oppose any form of torture. i am surprised - and this applies to minister alexander, commissioner frattini and also to the future president of the council, wolfgang schüssel - that a few statements by mrs rice are enough to believe that there is no torture by the americans. i really want to see this in action. because you have all heard of guantanamo and of senator mccain, who is not a madman, but is waging a specific and well-founded fight against torture - especially on the part of the united states of america. it is therefore important that we in this parliament go to the bottom of things and investigate, without prejudice and without prejudgment, but also without looking the other way and without being blind to the facts, whether such measures have also been taken on european soil - from abduction to torture. we want the truth and nothing but the truth. that is why we need this committee. my last comment concerns the relationship with the united states. i would like to join my predecessor in this. if we fight against torture, we fight for an america that stands as we do against torture, and i think that's the majority in this america, at least it's represented by senator mccain, for example. it is a joint struggle: europe and the united states against terrorism, but also against torture!
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, i too do not agree with the president-in-office's answer. because even if the council presidency has not considered this issue as a priority for this presidency, i believe - as probably all of us in this parliament do - that we live in a community of values in the european union and that violence against children, which includes corporal punishment, is really a crime against children. i would urge you to take appropriate action in this respect in future with the support of all the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't want to be here long. but since this is the last vote with a large number of members present, i should like to thank on behalf of my group - and i believe also on behalf of all members - the services which have prepared the difficult votes we have had just last year. you've done a great job of making our job easier. we wish them a happy holiday and ask that they will be so helpful to us next year.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur again for the excellent report, but i would point out that in my opinion there was a mistake in the vote because amendment no 24 by mrs lichtenberger, from the green group, should have been voted on, which would have included the automatic 60% surcharge on infrastructure charges. otherwise, i am very satisfied with the report.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. unfortunately, we have to point out here in the european parliament the human rights situation in china time and again. and it seems that this situation has been getting massively worse lately, rather than getting better, as the europeans have always wanted, in order to be able to maintain intact and positive relations with china as well. again and again, we come across the problem that the dalai lama is treated as a separatist, even though he himself has always been clear on the one-china policy, does not support any secessionist movements and is asking for autonomy negotiations in a very, very peaceful way. the second point is that there are new developments in monasteries where pressure is being put on the monks, but also on the population, where there is a re-education which cannot be accepted in this way. that is why i ask you to support this resolution.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the seriousness and concern of the situation in ethiopia is shown by the fact that we are now adopting the third resolution on that country in this parliament in six months. the release of 8,000 persons by the ethiopian authorities is welcome, but this figure also shows that there have been mass arrests. however, so far the government has not disclosed the total number of people actually detained or their whereabouts. we therefore call on the ethiopian government to provide information on the total number of persons detained and their whereabouts, to allow access to the international committee of the red cross and the families of the detainees, and to provide legal aid and medical care.
