president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). kyoto runs until 2012, which is close, and there's nothing planned for after that. the follow-up seminar in bonn is unfortunately little more than a cover for the bleeding. the european union cannot wait any longer for states as reluctant as the united states, commissioner. we must take the lead ourselves, without cutting into our own flesh. we must, more than ever, have a policy of rewarding those industrial enterprises which invest heavily in environmentally friendly technologies. we must also make much greater efforts, particularly in the transport sector. mr florenz said it here at the beginning of the debate. the seventh framework programme for research and development offers excellent opportunities in this respect for setting up ambitious programmes. why not set the bar high and push forward concrete deadlines? why not, for example, have the ambition to have - i'll make it very concrete - 100% zero-emission road transport in europe by 2020? i have one last question, commissioner. do you agree that we should allocate additional resources, for example a zero tax rate - to put it that way - to encourage and promote the use of biofuels? commissioner, you can go down in history as the greatest friend of mother earth. i wouldn't miss that opportunity if i were you.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago the former president of the european parliament, mr pat cox, gave the golden advice to the new and old members of this parliament that when a new matter comes up in parliament, they should apply the telephone test to it. this was the case with the public telephone boxes in ireland, which were allowed to continue to operate thanks to a european directive, because they were recognised as a service of general interest. it was immediately clear to the irish that we in this european parliament are also dealing with very concrete matters. i have also applied this test to the motor vehicle directive. i think it will pass this test with flying colors, because it is a directive which benefits the citizens. everyone involved in transportation, in traffic, is getting better. the directive has practical and positive effects which are important for citizens. i would like to draw your attention to a specific point which has already been raised in this debate. it is true that there is a deadline for the lodging of claims in the various countries, which, moreover, differs from one country to another. before a victim of a road traffic accident can bring a claim for damages, he must have the minutes of the proceedings. however, it sometimes takes months for this report to reach the victim. that is why i think what we have included in article 14 is so important. i would like to thank malcolm harbour, mrs wallis and medina ortega for the openness shown in reaching a compromise text on this. i think it is very important, however, that the member states do their utmost to provide the victim or his representative with the necessary information within the shortest possible time for the timely submission of the claim for damages. i think that the text that has been drawn up is a good compromise and i hope, as philippe whitehead has already said, that we can find the openness of the commission and the council to reach a solution that is satisfactory to all. i think this is a very serious problem and we must urgently address it with this directive.
president. - as vice-president of the convention, i can only welcome the fact that the european parliament will probably vote tomorrow in favour of this constitution by a very large majority. although the european parliament has not yet formally expressed its opinion on this, i believe that this statement, based on the excellent report by mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo, is an important signal to europe. we have indeed tried to provide an answer in the convention to the challenges facing europe today, namely enlargement and globalisation, and this constitution would not have taken on its present dimension without the important contribution of the european parliament. i think that this constitution, although a compromise, is qualitatively an important step forward. the constitution provides the institutional framework needed for an enlarged europe. europe cannot continue to operate with the same institutions and the same rules as when there were 15 member states. at the same time, i think that the real dimension of this constitution is that, although a first step has already been taken in maastricht, we are only now really moving from an economic community to a political union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that this constitution will be supported by a large majority tomorrow. but let us not forget that we as a parliament also have a great responsibility to convince the member states that europe needs this constitution. (applause from the left)
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, together with the flemish greens i will be campaigning for the ratification of the belgian constitution in the federal, flemish and brussels parliaments over the coming months. tomorrow, however, we shall not be voting on the constitution, but on the report by mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo, and as far as i am concerned, it is a disappointing report. it's an apology, an overly one-sided enumeration of the many advantages of the constitution. what a missed opportunity, mr corbett! should we not have taken better account of the criticisms now being voiced on the left? why, for example, can it not be said that we are still on the way to a full-fledged european democracy, that the role of the constitutional regions has been underestimated, that too many policy areas are still left to intergovernmental cooperation, that in too many areas the veto still applies? why can it not be said that the european union is still too lacking in social order and too neoliberal in its orientation? i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to look again at the amendments tabled by the green group, in particular amendments nos 4, 9, 15 and 16, and perhaps to support them in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, like our group, the belgian socialist delegation will vote in favour of this report, which supports a text which is an important step on the road to european integration. the decision taken by parliament will be crucial, both democratically and politically, for the debates that will be held in the ratification process. for us it will be a 'yes', but not a definitive 'yes', but a genesis-like 'yes', in other words a 'yes' of struggle which must be a beginning and not an end. it will be a 'yes' because, as many of us have said, there are significant advances in this treaty. how can we not be glad that the constitutional treaty gives our parliament new and increased powers, thus imposing a democratic debate within the only european institution with the legitimacy of universal suffrage? how can anyone not agree with the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into the body of the constitutional treaty? it will be a "yes", but a "yes" that is both proactive and demanding. as regards the decision-making of the council of ministers, it will not have escaped the attentive reader that although the rule of double majority has been extended, that of unanimity is maintained for certain crucial decisions, among which are decisions in the social and fiscal fields. in the same way, some of us misunderstand the fact that a constitution contains and fixes in its text a programmatic part with which we cannot all agree. this text is not perfect. progress in certain social or fiscal matters will be difficult, but no more difficult than it is today. the important thing is to realize that this constitution is only a stage in the construction of europe. it only makes sense if it heralds an ambitious future project in which all european citizens, starting with the least well-off, can see and hope for an improvement in their living conditions. more than the constitution, the union will be judged on the subsequent acts it will or will not take, on its strength and political will to meet or not meet the hope of europeans to achieve or not to achieve the social europe, the europe of the people. that is what we must continue to give priority to.
commission. as the commission pointed out when it launched the poster campaign, the priorities of european commission development cooperation are: to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty; promote sustainable development; build democracies; contribute to the integration of developing countries into the world economy; support good governance and promote respect for human rights. the commission is committed to helping developing countries achieve the development goals of the millennium. however, there are important objectives and activities that go far beyond the millennium development goals. for example, promoting peace and security and also supporting institution building. a comprehensive, integrated approach is therefore essential in achieving sustainable development, as made clear also by the treaty on european union in article 3, which emphasises the importance of assuring consistency of external policies and instruments in the context of external relations, security, development, economic and trade policy. this is also clearly stressed in the 2004 annual report on the community's development policy. the community's external actions, including assistance, are further adapted to the diversity of our partner regions and countries. the european neighbourhood policy is an expression of such a comprehensive and integrated partner strategy. similarly, our relations with the larger developing countries in asia and latin america in particular cover a broad range of objectives. in this context, it is clear that bringing concrete benefits to our partners will make the world a better place, not only for the people directly benefiting from ec assistance but also for european citizens. however, this does not change the overriding objective of the development policy of the european commission, that is to eradicate poverty.
i am glad to hear the commissioner's answer, mr president, because i must say that i was a little shocked when i read her statement of 2 december. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. we have already discussed this in the committee on budgetary control, madam commissioner. here again you have moved into the field of development cooperation. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. i would ask you to consult mr michel very carefully on this.
as you know, mr president, the european institutions have recently, in what i consider to be a fatal way, put a stop to the possible accession of a non-european country, turkey, to the european union. such a dossier threatens to change the whole nature of the union as we know it and even to put european cooperation as we know it on the fundamental precipice. it is a matter on which the vast majority of our electors, our citizens, are particularly alienated from the position taken by the official european institutions. i therefore regret that the luxembourg presidency does not take the opportunity to demand, firstly, respect for the democratic will of the majority of our citizens and, secondly, respect for the other small member state, cyprus, which is ignored and disregarded by the turkish leaders in the most arrogant and unacceptable way. i call this a missed opportunity, which can only widen the enormous gap between our citizens on the one hand and european politics on the other.
the fact that we reject this european constitution in the strongest terms does not mean that we are against far-reaching european cooperation. we are opposed to the european big brother state which is the exact opposite of what is in this constitution, namely respect for the principle of subsidiarity. we flemings live in the belgian federal state and we know firsthand how difficult it is, how impossible it is, to achieve a proper administration within a federal state. so if we now see that this constitution is making the european union increasingly resemble a kind of belgium in general, with far-reaching interventions in what we consider to be strictly national competences such as culture, language legislation, social security and so on, then that is more than one step too far for us. europe yes, european unity worst no. for these reasons and many others, we naturally voted against this european constitution.
mr president, it is of course not possible to list in the space of a minute all the reasons why i voted against the report on the european constitution. i shall therefore confine myself to the essential point, namely that a constitution is a matter for nation states and not for an institution like the european union. unless, of course, we intend to make the european union a federalist superstate, but then we do not have to count on the support of the flemish interest. not everything in the constitutional treaty is negative, on the contrary, but some simplifications and clarifications could have been made by means of a new classic european treaty. this constitution leads above all to new transfers of powers to the eu, to greater european involvement. moreover, the text is already obsolete before it has been ratified in the member states, in view of the likely accession of a country like turkey, which will fundamentally alter the functioning of all the institutions.
in writing. with the european constitution, europe wants to take steps towards greater european democracy and greater transparency. we are thinking here of the reinforced role of the european parliament in the decisionmaking process, the confirmation and consolidation of the principle of subsidiarity, the creation of a single legal framework and the simplification of legislative instruments. the extension of the european sphere of action in the fields of defence and asylum policy and the definition of european values are important new features in the constitution. the constitution is a step forward. a shy one, yes, but it's a forward one. the n-va therefore supports this step because it stands for a more democratic and transparent europe. a europe with a strong public culture, built from the ground up and supported by its citizens. but at the same time, the n-va also sees the constitution as a missed opportunity. three quarters of european legislation is implemented at a decentralised level, and yet the involvement of these implementing regional authorities is minimal. the european constitutional regions are not given any (formal) role in the european decision-making process. apart from a non-binding passage on the recognition of the national identity of the member states, the union also completely ignores the institutional reality in the various member states in this constitution. the continuing denial of this regional dimension is contrary to the idea of subsidiarity.
in writing. yes, i wholeheartedly support the draft european constitution and i voted enthusiastically for the excellent report by my colleagues. a draft treaty which, while it is a compromise, contains considerable progress. the union of 25 becomes stable with a president appointed for two and a half years instead of the rotating presidency every six months. a foreign minister who will be the voice of europe in the world. the charter of fundamental rights is finally incorporated into the institutional corpus. citizens who have a right to petition (translatable into european law from one million signatures). and in the social field, for the first time, the union has set itself the objectives of common progress in a social market economy. in short, a more democratic, more transparent, clearer and more efficient european union. but perhaps the hardest part is still to be done: to bring ratification to fruition in all our member states and thus to explain and convince the citizens of europe. and i am glad that in these times of euro-frivolity, on the constitutional treaty, belgian citizens, according to a recent poll, are in the forefront of the fight for yes: 80% are in favour!
in writing. the corbett/méndez de vigo report can be classified as 'pure propaganda' and is not a fair assessment of the pros and cons of the present convention. it does not mention that too many policy areas are still left to intergovernmental cooperation and that in important areas the veto still applies. the role of the constitutional regions in the european decisionmaking process remains precarious. part iii of the treaty makes it clear that the union lacks a social order and confirms the choice of the neoliberal model. the european union is not yet a security union and is in danger of putting more emphasis on the use of military means than on the use of conflict prevention. these remarks are not in the report, which is why i am voting against. this does not prevent me from campaigning with the greens! in the coming months for the ratification of the treaty in the federal, flemish and brussels parliaments. the constitution is a huge step forward and if we do not ratify it we will fall back on the provisions of the treaty of nice, which are less efficient, transparent and democratic than the present treaty establishing a european constitution.
in writing. i am very convinced, mr president, that i voted in favour of the resolution and therefore in favour of the constitutional treaty. the arguments which a large majority of the european parliament endorses, namely to encourage a positive attitude on the part of the citizens of europe and the national and regional parliaments, are also my own. i also share the criticism of the fact that untruths are being spread about this constitutional convention. the text which now needs to be democratically ratified only contains steps in the right direction: it will provide more opportunities to work in an open, transparent, democratic and effective way in those policy areas where the union can and must provide added value for citizens. he deserves all our support.
it is of the utmost importance, mr president, that we should consult from time to time on transatlantic relations. our relations with the united states have not improved in recent years. there is no doubt that this has a lot to do with the american intervention in iraq, but there are other problems as well. we have to remember the unacceptable pressure exerted by the us governments, by the us president himself, to have turkey join the european union. i do not think that it is in the interests of the transatlantic dialogue for one side to interfere in the internal political affairs of the other. that said, we must also dare to say that there is a certain kind of primary anti-americanism in this parliament too, which does not make things any easier. europe and the united states share the same values, such as democracy and human rights, the free market economy, and so on. they are often called universal values, but they are in fact western, let us say european, values. we also share a number of common enemies. firstly, there is the threat of islamic terrorism, even if we differ on how to deal with this problem. in this respect, we must not dwell too much on multilateralism versus unilateralism. in practice, multilateralism often means that we hide behind institutions like the united nations, so that in practice little or nothing happens. our weakness in military matters and in foreign policy is not the fault of the americans, but is the fault of ourselves alone. we can still learn from america, just think of the tsunami in southeast asia. american military personnel were very quick to arrive on the scene to provide actual assistance. the european union was present in the person of commissioner louis michel, who came to check on the damage and handed out a few bags of rice to the television cameras. the contrast was stark and telling.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president, commissioner, 26 december was a great day for ukraine, a great day for the eu and of course a great day for democracy. it was a great day for ukraine, as after weeks of peaceful protest, in conditions that were, however, particularly harsh, it was decided to hold a third round of the presidential elections. in the end, all those involved agreed with great maturity. it was an important moment for the european union, because its united action led to a good solution and also because the european union was the main contributor to the efforts in the field of election observation, to which my group of course also contributed. it was, after all, a very great day for democracy, as the proper organization of the elections showed. i would like to stress that 300,000 ukrainians also took part in this election observation, which is also a huge effort. the whole process has led to a strengthening of ukrainian society. finally, i would like to stress that there will also be a great need for free and independent media, and that the new president and the government that will be formed will also have to work on the development and strengthening of the market economy and the rule of law. i do not know, commissioner, if i understood you correctly when you said that the action plan offers ample opportunities for intensifying relations between the european union and ukraine. i would like to see you confirm that, because if it is not so, then it should be clear that we too support the request for renegotiation of the action plan. i would like to conclude by recalling article 49 of the treaty on european union, which states that a european country may be a candidate for membership of the european union if it fulfils the conditions.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, the european commission, by virtue of the treaties, enjoys a double political privilege. the privilege of time, it is indeed free from electoral constraints for five years, and the privilege of initiative in the service of the general interest of the union, as indicated in the draft constitution. it is very difficult, mr president of the commission, to disagree with what you have said. i think that our group can recommend that, as things stand, you should go from talk to action. i would also like to return to the motion for a resolution which we tabled with the other political groups in december and to mention four or five points relating to political deadlines which seem to me to be important and which are in fact already being discussed in 2005. first, the budget of the european union. you alluded to it. the european greens consider that the prodi commission's proposal on the size of the union budget is a strict minimum, in fact insufficient. we therefore support what you have said, mr barroso, just as we support the desire to redirect the union's expenditure. i am thinking, for example, of creating european funding for natura 2000; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a good example of the need to ensure that the environment is protected. i am also thinking of increasing european funding for culture and education so that more students and creators can contribute to the knowledge of the realities of europe. yes, we will support the commission in its responsibility to remind the council and the heads of state and government that, as you have said, it is not possible to achieve a european union of 25 member states and 450 million inhabitants with the budgets that some governments want to devote to it. my second point concerns the reach legislation, the real purpose of which is to protect human health while pushing the chemical industry to technological innovation. we want the commission to maintain its proposal so that parliament can express its views at first reading and so that the whole matter is not postponed again. the greens also obviously want to add various considerations to this proposal, including the obligation to substitute highly dangerous substances. thirdly, the proposal for a law on the internal market in services which, as it stands, increases competition between economies without adequately regulating the conditions of that competition, thus opening the door to social dumping within the union. the principle of country of origin cannot be retained as the guiding principle in this proposal for a directive. finally, as regards the evaluation of the union's policies, the luxembourg presidency was right in stating in its presidency text that the evaluation of all the union's policies in the light of the criteria of sustainable development should not be regarded as secondary and should not be overshadowed by the lisbon strategy as such. in this connection, we look forward to the commission's report on policy coherence. i am thinking, for example, of transport policy or energy policy in the light of the international commitments the european union has made in the context of the climate convention. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the union must continue to play a leading role in the international climate negotiations and that it is now committing itself to achieving the 2020 objectives - we are already seeing much further ahead - which require much greater energy saving efforts than those we are making today. (applause from the left)
mr president, i believe that you, mr president of the commission, have a great deal of political skill, as we have already seen. you have created, you are creating around you, around your intentions, a certain unanimity. i will, however, put a little stumbling block in saying this. you say that we should concentrate our efforts on making europe the most competitive economy. this new competitiveness would create jobs for all. mr president, i do not believe that and there are a number of us who do not. we do not believe in it because your programme does not provide the right answers to the problems facing europe and its citizens. it is true that economic growth is too low today and that it must be stepped up, but stepped up for what and for whom? the benefits of growth must be used to improve the situation of our fellow citizens and shared by all, with a benefit for those in need. in addition to the lack of jobs, our fellow citizens suffer from the precariousness of employment. today, our health, social security and pension systems are under threat. with globalization, insecurity of existence is spreading. today more than ever, the union does indeed need a strong political project, but for this europe we also need a strong political project on the social front. a project of society that allows everyone to lead a fulfilling life, a project based on solidarity. if we want our children to continue to have access to quality education, if we want public services to continue to strengthen social cohesion, if we want quality jobs to enable everyone to lead a decent and fulfilling life and if we want older people to have a decent retirement, then we need to do more than bet our future on the uncertain benefits of a policy based on competition. mr president, in your programme you could have emphasized better, in my view, the importance of strengthening the social dimension in the european union, because it is precisely policies of this kind that concern the citizens in the first place, and it seems to me that you have not done so. on the contrary, it seems to me that by attacking our social protection systems, our public services, it is the european citizens who could be the victims of the proposals you are presenting to us. in this connection, i would ask you, mr president, to take the right decision in withdrawing mr bolkestein's draft directive, which, as it stands, seems unacceptable to us. having the most competitive and dynamic politics in the world... (the president withdraws the speaker)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the most important thing is the implementation. we will only be able to assess you if we have the concrete policy measures and i urge that this be done as soon as possible. if you are serious about the lisbon social pillar, i ask you to do three things. firstly, that all new proposals are assessed on the social impact and not just on competition as stated in the commission document. secondly, that the commission is finally going to work on a framework directive on services of general interest, which are of great importance for social cohesion and solidarity. thirdly, mr president, i hope you will clarify the services directive. commissioner verheugen says the reach proposal will be adapted and thoroughly reviewed. i ask the same of you, and the same commitment to the bulkstone directive: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. a new coalition government has been formed in israel and presidential elections have been held in palestine. the elections were held with the active support and assistance of the international community, and in particular of the european union, which contributed not only to them but also with an extended observation mission headed by mr rocard. the elections have come about because israel has been wise enough to allow them to go ahead, albeit not always without difficulty. i am thinking here of the situation in east jerusalem and the closure of the border crossing with egypt. but above all, the elections were brought about by the maturity of the palestinian people, who have shown their attachment to democracy, their desire for good governance and due process of law, and above all their desire for peace. i would like to pay particular tribute to the palestinian women who have made a decisive contribution to the success of these elections. were they perfect? no, they were not perfect, but even with their imperfections they can be a model for the whole region and the palestinians have every right to be proud of that. we know what the main parties - the palestinian authority and israel - are now faced with, and they know it too. the bloodshed must stop, the violence must end as an indispensable first step towards peace. president abbas seems to be succeeding in dissuading the palestinian armed movements from violence, and that is no small feat. we support him in this and encourage him to continue. in israel, the government was changed to carry out the withdrawal from the gaza strip. we call on the israeli government to do so, to stop building the wall and to refrain from irresponsible violence. the most urgent tasks for israel and palestine are to put an end to the violence, restore basic security and normalize life. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in the middle east. i myself and my whole group would like nothing more than to see this become an avenue of opportunity. the european union and the united states must now work together with great urgency, in their complementarity - within the quartet and in accordance with the road map - to ensure that israel and palestine embark on the road to peace. you, mr high representative, and you, madam commissioner, can both play a decisive role in this. rarely have circumstances been so hopeful. now is the time to act.
mr president, mr solana, i was in gaza, in the refugee camps of rafah, at the time of the elections, and i thank you for your very good words. i thank you, mrs ferrero-waldner, for your commitment. i would like to take this back, if i may, to the iraqi elections and express my concern. these elections are scheduled for sunday; they are part of bush's political withdrawal plan, which was legitimized by un resolution 446. the plan was supposed to ensure that the iraqis were in control of their own destiny, but since it was put in place, tensions have been rising. the occupying forces have not been able to transform themselves convincingly into peacekeepers, and the excesses committed in abu ghraib prison are, unfortunately, a clear example of this. attempts to rebuild iraqi forces, including police forces, have been punctuated by targeted attacks on those who, unfortunately, are sometimes considered collaborators with enemy powers. it's a failure. and it is these same iraqi forces, backed by american soldiers, who will be guarding the polling stations. sunni extremists boycotted the elections and the rise of fundamentalist shiite movements, whose arrival iran welcomes with great sympathy, has raised fears of the emergence of a theocracy instead of a new democracy. the holding of these elections is completely surreal. there are no conditions for the legitimate result to be any power and bring peace, and on the contrary, there is a fear of renewed violence. it is therefore difficult to believe that a constitution will be drawn up that is free from the sharia and respects women's rights unless the authors are firmly behind it. the 2005 calendar is staggering: a constitution for 15 august, a popular referendum on 15 october, legislative elections on 15 december and a new government on 31 december. but what is the council's analysis of this forcing? do you believe that? we are not going to be able to do that. is there a european strategy in this area? i would like to do so to prevent some speeches which might be close to mine but which i do not share. i think we should not be silent about this election; such silence is very ambiguous and i don't want it.
we are discussing a resolution on the commemoration of the holocaust, anti-semitism and racism. it would have been expected that a text would pay tribute to the victims of the holocaust, with a serene appeal to never forget this horrible episode in european history, so that such a thing could never happen again. my party, the flemish interest, could of course have agreed to such a resolution, along with 99% of the members of the european parliament, but the resolution under discussion here is not in that spirit. in a shameful way, the horrors of the second world war are being juxtaposed with, and i quote, the rise of extremist and xenophobic parties and the growing acceptance of their views by public opinion. the resolution, in paragraph 5, calls for the current fight against racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism to be placed in education against the background of the shoah. my party, the flemish interest, is neither extremist nor xenophobic, but the politically correct terminology is indeed directed against the contemporary democratic political parties which are fighting for the preservation of national identity. the traditional political groups simply want to demonize a number of successful and growing competitors at the expense of the victims of the holocaust. in this way, not only are millions of voters in europe offended, but, what is worse, the horrors of totalitarian systems such as national socialism are trivialized by this kind of cheap political games. the call for, and i quote, a european ban on incitement to religious and racial hatred, while guaranteeing the legitimate freedom of expression, is also worrying. the traditional groups seem to believe that there is such a thing as illegitimate freedom of expression which must be suppressed at all costs. it is obvious that people no longer realise that freedom of expression exists only if it also applies to political opponents. such aberrations are not surprising, given that this resolution was also tabled by the communist group.
in writing. dégel, who dares to say? we want to believe in this warming of relations between israelis and palestinians. the signs are there. the success of the palestinian elections to begin with, and the coming to power of mahmoud abbas. the man who orchestrated the 1993 oslo accords campaigned on the theme of the demilitarization of the intifada. more than a speech, a conviction constantly reasserted. but also the spectacular actions of the palestinian security forces against the terrorists, their deployment throughout the gaza strip, the israeli moratorium on targeted liquidations and the re-establishment of diplomatic relations. and today, ariel sharon announced a meeting in two weeks with mahmoud abbas. and let us not forget the clearer, more readable support of the united states, with this second administration of president bush, which has promised to complete the process by 2009. this is a window of opportunity in which the european union is more determined than ever to take part. the eu has already sent its biggest election observer mission ever to the country. this is what our resolution that i voted for is reminding us of, because at my request the unacceptable part of paragraph 12, which condemned the indiscriminate and terrorist violence on both sides, was rejected.
mr president, i will be brief. i have abstained on this resolution, not because i do not bow to the suffering of the jewish and other victims of a criminal national socialist regime, criminal like so many other socialist regimes and dictatorships. i did not vote for this resolution because i feel only contempt for people, politicians, who are exploiting this suffering for their own partisan political purposes and for the struggle against parties which want to continue defending european values and the identity of the european peoples. i also regret that this resolution does not mention the anti-jewish terrorism of today, the anti-jewish attacks of today, the fact that today in our big cities, for example in antwerp, jewish people are being harassed by arabs and muslims who are the anti-semites of today. i also regret the call for restrictions on freedom of expression, because without freedom of expression there can be no democracy. finally, mr president, i note that communists who have never renounced communist regimes, which practiced terror and also had concentration camps, have been allowed to sign this resolution. i consider that a scandal.
in writing. there are a few hundred of them today, in the cold and snow of auschwitz. the survivors of the survivors, the last sentinels, still there, still standing to say what absolute evil was, the absolute evil. the world and the people of this century are looking at them, 60 years after the holocaust. my heart and my spirit are in auschwitz today, with them and all the others, those who did not return. as this age of the last witnesses draws to a close, it is our urgent duty to consider what the transmission of this memorial will be like without them. we owe this truth. to them first, to our children, and to future generations. because the denialist blows, worse the trivialization attempts did not wait for the disappearance of the survivors to try to degrade this singular memory among all. that is what we are asking for, that is why we are fighting: the teaching of the holocaust in our schools, the knowledge to block racism. auschwitz was in the heart of europe, 60 years ago. this past must never pass.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr costa, on his report and the excellent conclusions he has presented, which were almost unanimously approved by the committee on civil liberties. i think this report is a strong signal from parliament to the commission and the council. it is a sign of our determination to ensure a higher quality of justice for all european citizens, and i would even say for all those who are in the territory of the european union, thanks in particular to the charter on the quality of criminal justice and the proposed evaluation system. mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters in one or other member state presupposes mutual trust by all states in their judicial systems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used in a proper manner. but it's not just the procedure. ensuring and verifying that judges are well trained, open, balanced, available, efficient, diligent and able to manage existing resources in an optimal way is of course not in contradiction with the indispensable independence they must enjoy. the transparency of justice must be improved and citizens must be better informed about the working methods of judges, who sometimes suffer a loss of credibility and trust. finally, i think it is essential that our recommendations be followed up. we need action, not just intentions, commissioner. it is therefore important to set up a monitoring committee composed of experts, judges, legal practitioners, users of justice and representatives of national parliaments whose task is to assess and evaluate the way in which our recommendations are implemented. if we succeed in putting these recommendations into practice, we will be able to make the european union a true state governed by the rule of law. these are fundamental questions for the functioning of our democracies, for the respect of the law and for the rights of citizens. as regards the excellent report by mr di pietro, i fully agree with the analysis and proposals contained therein, but i would like to stress that the proposal made is modest, confined to the current legal framework, which dates back to 1959, and therefore does not meet the information needs of criminal records. i think we were trying to respond to the emotion of the fourniret case. we will look forward, as commissioner frattini has announced, to more comprehensive proposals, which are essential to combat terrorism, serious crime and crime in general more effectively. the small step we have taken does not exempt us from taking a further step quickly.
in the explanatory memorandum to its proposal, the commission points out that recent tragic cases of paedophilia have shown that there are major problems in the exchange of conviction data between member states. commissioner frattini has just mentioned the name. the fournier case is in fact being referred to. the french authorities have not considered it necessary to provide the necessary information on the person concerned. the proposal now under discussion has taken far too long to be put to the vote. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the proposal is also inadequate and fails to address a large number of problems. member states should complete and make available their criminal records more quickly, and provide data requested by other member states more quickly, using standard forms. these are some steps in the right direction, but of course it remains to be seen whether a fully automated system of data exchange will be introduced. the commission must now make a move as quickly as possible, especially since it is already stating that the system will not be able to function for a number of years, which in itself is a bad sign. there are, of course, a number of legal implications which we shall have to discuss in detail. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission itself provides a striking example of how this is clearly not the case. it does not provide for the obligation of a member state to inform the state of residence of a convicted person if that state is not the state of which he is a national. in other words, these measures will allow the aforementioned fourniret to slip through the net again.
i agree with those who say that the commission's proposals are a first step and that the report in the field is a first step and a good report. we have too much legal uncertainty at the moment for local actors. we leave it to the court of justice at this stage to decide what exactly needs to be done in the matter of state aid. that's a first step, but at the same time, it's not enough for us. the exemption of compensation paid to hospitals and social housing is a first step, but we think others should be added to the list. we are thinking, commissioner, of health care institutions, we are thinking of employment services which we think should also be excluded from the notification. then there is this fourth criterion in the altmark judgment. we are not going to accept this and it is not practical. how, after all, is the average well-managed private enterprise to be determined? what to do when there is no private equivalent? the reference to the average private undertaking is not too minimalist in its interpretation of the public service remit. the desire to present itself as a well-run private enterprise can also have repercussions in terms of redundancies and social drama. i therefore ask that this criterion be deleted.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, a well-known french economist has just published a book entitled 'the politics of impotence', and i think that is a sentiment that many of our fellow citizens can legitimately feel. i would add, however, that this policy of impotence is in fact a deliberate strategy chosen since maastricht, since 1992, which is broadly based on three lines: structural reform of the markets - as we call it in our jargon - reduction of public deficits and a policy aimed at conquering external markets. in addition, from the institutional and competence-sharing point of view, the european union has exclusive competence in competition law and monetary union, and for the rest the member states have to manage and compete with each other. i think that 15 years later - and i regret to say this - this institutional choice is reinforced by the constitutional treaty, which i approve, even though it contains many shortcomings. fifteen years later, the results are in line with expectations, or rather the lack of results in terms of growth, and above all the quality of growth, and in terms of job creation. so our message as an environmental group, commissioner, is that we really need to change our strategy. we have the impression that the discussions on the stability pact are marginal and that, in reality, if we really want to achieve better results, we need to put in place a more voluntary policy at the euro area level, in which ministers finally share a european support framework around more ambitious objectives and where efforts are made to achieve convergence between the different national economies. since i have little time, i will mention three of these goals. the first, i believe, is a massive taxation of labour and alternative ways of financing social security systems, taking into account the diversity of countries. but i think it is very important to be able to say to all citizens that those who work, those who have the chance to work, must be able to live decently from their work. and i think that achieving that goal requires a massive taxation of labor. second objective, and you will not be surprised, we need quality growth, which is more energy efficient and much less polluting. look at the commission's documents on the evaluation of the community strategy for sustainable development: the results are disastrous, hence the absolute need to change course from this point of view. thirdly, we must support internal demand within the union. the focus should not be on conquering external markets, as if the economy were made up of only large companies or innovative small and medium-sized enterprises targeting the chinese and indian markets. we must support internal demand, which means public and private investment and the dissemination of a clear message from public authorities, both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states, that we are proud to be european, that we have built a monetary union, as well as an internal market. we need a real economic and social union now, one which gives everyone a future.
the report, mr president, contains a whole range of proposals to overcome the backlog in implementing the lisbon strategy. i would particularly like to express my appreciation for paragraph 7 of the report which emphasizes the important role of small and mediumsized enterprises in creating employment and prosperity in general. it is essential to create a climate that encourages entrepreneurship among young people, a climate in which administrative burdens and taxation are substantially reduced and in which smes have easier access to risk capital. another finding is that the report does not mention the commission's green paper on economic immigration. that's a good thing, especially with the current unemployment rate. the commission's plea to allow and encourage new immigration is short-sighted, counterproductive and totally misplaced, even though the commission is invoking the lisbon objectives to launch that proposal.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank very warmly all my colleagues here who have shown great interest in this important subject. i would first of all like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs, antonios trakatellis, dorette corbey, bart staes, bairbre de brún and then, of course, all the colleagues whose very valuable cooperation and collaboration i have appreciated throughout the preparation of this report. the debate was intense in all the political groups and, i would say, lived up to the challenges and expectations. 89% of european citizens say they are particularly concerned about the impact of the environment on their health and with good reason! the figures are encouraging, and i will mention only a few: one sixth of child deaths and illnesses in europe can be attributed to environmental factors; the so-called allergic respiratory diseases have doubled in the last 20 years, affecting one in seven children today. almost 10% of workers are exposed to carcinogens; 14% of couples consult for difficulty conceiving. i could, as i said, multiply the figures and examples here and, by the way, my colleagues did not fail to do so during the debates. in response to these figures, the european commission launched the scale strategy for environment and health in june 2003, scale for science children's awareness legal instruments evaluation. this initiative has raised a lot of hopes, as was well summed up by margot wallström's statements in our plenary debate in march last year. i quote her: 'there are some areas where we cannot risk waiting for our knowledge to be complete but where we must act on the precautionary principle, and we will.' in short, this european strategy was to serve as a launching pad for the present action plan for which i am the rapporteur. but it is not. this action plan, i would say, is not what it is called, but rather a programme for the assessment of the overall environmental impact on health. of course, there are a number of interesting clues. they are worth mentioning and remembering. i would mention in particular the actions to raise awareness of the risks faced by citizens, the training of health and environmental specialists - there are far too few of them - the introduction of biomonitoring at european level, all of which are interesting initiatives, as i said, but which do not give off the sense of unfinished business that i felt when i read the commission's communication. indeed, an approach which makes absolute scientific proof the paradigm of the 21st century seems to me to be a departure from the application of the precautionary principle. the 52 european ministers for the environment and health who met in budapest last june for the conference on 'a future for our children' understood this by stressing the balance, the delicate but necessary balance, between more research and the urgency of preventive action to protect health. it is this balance that we must seek and find here. that is why we have made exposure to hazardous chemicals a priority in this report. in particular, in paragraph 6, we call for the precautionary principle to be applied to a whole series of substances harmful to health, in particular certain heavy metals such as mercury and cadmium, six products of the phthalate family used in pvc plastics and four insecticides suspected of being, among other things, endocrine disruptors and causing serious malformations. strengthening this european plan also means, i would say, drawing on the ambitious actions already being successfully implemented by the member states. i refer to paragraphs 23 and 28 of the resolution. i am glad that my colleagues support my approach to putting children at the heart of the system, in particular by calling on the commission to carry out an epidemiological study of children from birth to adulthood. another crucial point is the fight against passive smoking. the commission has taken account of this concern, and we welcome this. it wants to classify tobacco smoke in the environment as a class 1 carcinogen. let us be clear on this point: i cannot in any way compromise the message we are sending to the citizens, which is the subject of paragraph 20 of the resolution. tobacco smoke kills not only smokers but also non-smokers. in belgium alone, there are 2,000 victims of secondhand smoke a year, as many as in road accidents. in conclusion, i hope that the european commission will be ambitious in implementing this action plan for the next six years. i have no doubt, mr dimas, that you will work hand in hand with your colleague, mr kyprianou, to ensure the necessary complementarity between the action plan and the european public health programme. you can of course count on our support in parliament to secure funding to meet the challenges i have just mentioned, not only in the seventh research framework programme but also in chapter 4 of the financial perspective. i hope you will also support the introduction by your services of a green paper on indoor pollution, from the nursery to the home and the school, which is still the poor relation of environmental legislation. all this is to say that europe must learn from the tobacco and asbestos scandals, to name but a few. europe is in a race against time against all forms of pollution. commissioner, you and we have a duty to ensure that the health of the citizens, of all citizens, takes precedence over all other considerations.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many people are concerned about the impact of the environment on their health, and these are very concrete matters. meanwhile, it has been sufficiently demonstrated that fertility declines and miscarriages increase due to environmental influences. it's becoming increasingly clear that people suffer from allergies. the number of children suffering from asthma and having to go through life with a puffer, a syringe, is growing. the impact of tobacco smoke on the health of non-smokers is very clear to all of us. the action plan therefore fits into the scale approach which focuses on five key concepts: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet). the presentation of the action programme, commissioner, was full of disappointment and skepticism. can i mention three things? first, the huge gap between the ambitions expressed in the overall strategy and the action plan itself. two, the action plan is not really an action plan. it is a research plan that is unlikely to succeed in actually reducing the burden of disease caused by environmental stress. commissioner dimas, it has been said here by several colleagues that we do not need more research, we do not need more study, but we do need action. thirdly, there are no concrete financial proposals from the commission to finance all this. you can't cook without money, commissioner, we know that. so there is a lot of scepticism, a lot of concern, but fortunately there is satisfaction with the work of mrs ries and the work of the committee on the environment. i would like to concentrate on two points. two points which we as a group of greens and regionalists want to put forward in two amendments. we as the green group would like to emphasize that no target figures have been proposed for the proposed actions and that of the 13 actions only 3 relate to specific measures to reduce the burden of disease. secondly, we would like to emphasize that there is no system of biomonitoring, that it is not being set up to establish the link with environmental medicine. commissioner dimas, i would ask you to take parliament's comments into account and to turn your action plan into a real action plan worthy of the name, i would be grateful to you.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to begin by thanking you all for your constructive remarks in both the report and during the debate today. the contribution of the european parliament is very important. through the close cooperation between parliament and the commission we will be able to provide the european union with an effective and efficient way of addressing the possible consequences on human health of environmental concerns. i wish to comment briefly on your observations and try to answer your questions. the gradual setting-up of an integrated environment and health information system, in which human bio-monitoring will play an essential role, is the added value of the action plan. it is a long-term and ambitious plan, but this will not prevent us from taking action. indeed, many actions have already been taken on the major environment and health issues. just to give you some examples, i wish to draw your attention to clean water and sanitation, which are dealt with through the urban waste water treatment directive, the drinking water directive and the bathing water directive. respiratory diseases will be tackled even more through cafe - the clean air for europe programme. diseases related to chemical and physical stresses are already addressed through the legislation on pesticides and biocides. the new chemicals policy - reach - will be an essential cornerstone in this area. we need to bear in mind how far we have come and ensure that we build on existing efforts rather than duplicate them. there is already a great deal of legislative action forthcoming which will have an impact on the protection of human health. this relates in particular to the thematic strategies of reach and cafe. we must continue with our efforts before coming up with additional elements and it is for this reason that the environment and health strategy focuses on preparing the next generation of environmental legislation. the environment and health strategy contained a specific focus on children and during the stakeholder consultation process to prepare the action plan, experts highlighted that concern. firstly, that parental exposure should be included to cover the unborn child and, secondly, that we should look at adults in order to cover diseases caused by childhood exposure. for these reasons the action plan has widened the focus to include adults as well, taking into consideration the various categories of vulnerability. the precautionary principle is at the core of environment policy and it will continue to be the cornerstone of our action. it will be applied according to the conditions set out in the relevant legislation. the commission fully agrees with this line. i want to be extremely clear to avoid any possible misunderstanding. the commission will not use this lack of information in the field of environment and health as an excuse for inaction. regarding the financial plan, we very much welcome parliament's support in its role as budgetary authority for the funding to implement the action plan. we are constrained by the existing budgetary initiatives until 2006 and we will make the best use of all available funds. we are currently making the case within the commission for a very substantial increase in the amount of research funding devoted to environment and health. parliament's request for funding of eur 300 million for 2007-2010 provides us with extremely useful political support. however, the member states must also play a role. a european union version of the united states' national children's study, which the parliament has requested, would cost about eur 100 million per year. this amounts to a massive increase of our current environment and health funding. we hope to provide as much support as possible at european union level, but major commitment must also come from the member states. the commission greatly values parliament's cooperation and its constructive efforts in this area. in order to make the most of this the commission will regularly inform the relevant parliamentary committee on the progress made in implementing the action plan. finally, i would like to underline that by 2007 we will have made significant progress in establishing the information system and we hope to have the first results of the effectiveness of cost efficiency measures to address health problems. at this point we will report back to parliament in substantive terms on whether existing policies are working and what new policy initiatives will be required.
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 october 2003 the commission adopted a proposal for a directive on driving licences, which you will be discussing in a moment. today, more than 110 different types of driving licence, granting different rights for certain types, are valid and in circulation in the member states. in an open space where the free movement of citizens is the rule, the consequences of this situation are obvious. the controls of this variety of licences are very difficult, public authorities have difficulty finding their way there, citizens often have problems of non-recognition of their driving licences. this situation is no longer acceptable. the directive proposed by the commission has three main objectives: anti-fraud protection, free movement and road safety. as regards fraud protection, the commission proposes to eliminate the paper model. from the date of application of the directive, the only community model that can be used will be the plastic card. this will also help to reduce the number of models in circulation. the member states will have the possibility of inserting a microprocessor in the driving licence which will, of course, contain only the elements shown on the plastic card and cannot be used for any other purpose. this will help to strengthen the protection against fraud. the commission also proposes to introduce a time-limited period of validity of the licence. this administrative validity, which will be ten years for car and motorcycle licences, will make it possible to update the anti-fraud protection elements at each renewal and to have a recent photo on the document. this is the real way to avoid a situation comparable to the present situation. the introduction of the limited period of validity will put an end to the last obstacle to free movement in this field. citizens moving to another member state will no longer have to deal with different periods of validity in different member states. this is the element which, with the harmonization of the model permit, makes it possible to remove the obstacles to free movement. the commission proposal also aims to improve road safety. to this end, the commission proposes to introduce a new category of driving licence for mopeds. motorcycle riders are the youngest motorised road users. they are also particularly vulnerable, as all the statistics show, in that they are proportionately much more involved in accidents than other users. the commission also proposes to regulate the right to drive the most powerful motorcycles progressively, to do the same for heavy goods vehicles and the most powerful coaches, to harmonise the frequency of medical examinations for professional drivers and to introduce minimum requirements for the initial qualification and continuing training of driving licence examiners. there you have it, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, an ambitious proposal to improve road safety, to ensure free movement, to combat fraud in driving licences. it will certainly have an impact on a number of citizens for whom the driving licence is a guarantee of mobility and free movement and an identity document in everyday life.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking all those involved, both the commission and the administration of parliament, but also my colleagues, because for some months now the directive on driving licences has been the subject of a search for coherence and also of a great deal of dialogue, because this issue has not so much given rise to partisan differences as to sensitivities which have varied greatly from one country to another. it is in this context, mr commissioner, that i would like to thank the commission for its enlightened advice, and also all the people who have invested themselves heavily in the subject. we have sought consensus and coherence, but we have also made sure that the whole thing adds value for the citizens, since it is, after all, about almost two thirds of the european citizens who are concerned. that is why we have taken a small step further: instead of 111 driving licences plus one european model, the proposal from the committee on transport and tourism is that we should have a single european driving licence from 111 within a reasonable period of about 10 or 20 years. this is of course symbolic, but it also has the advantage of simplifying controls. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. the internet is full of them, so the countries are also mentioned here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the added value for citizens also means legal certainty. we do not want to undermine the rights we have acquired, on the contrary, we want to strengthen them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of professional drivers are not lost, for example when they move to another place, as we have seen in the cases which have been brought before the commission. it is also about the citizen as a tourist who travels from one country to another and wants to see his rights recognized there too. we have also opted not to discriminate on the basis of age, and accordingly we leave it to the countries to introduce medical tests or other tests that are purely preventive. but i am convinced that what is already the norm in some countries will also expand. the added value is also greater road safety; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of training. training is the basic element and does not prevent further training. in this respect we have sought consistency with the directive on training for professional drivers, whether in bus or truck transport. we have also solved the problem of motorhomes and caravans, for example, by not introducing a more complicated b+e driving licence, but by adapting training; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the idea was also based on the progressive access for motorcyclists, and you mentioned this in the introduction: we are all aware that efforts can and must be made in this area. if we are to count today the total number of road deaths, which is over 40,000, then it is clear that the number of deaths in the car sector is decreasing, but unfortunately not in the motorcycle sector. here, the numbers are alarmingly consistent. that is why we are proposing a gradual approach, but we do not want to rely on theoretical examinations. we are counting on training and, accordingly, we would also like to give the countries that want to set a lower starting age the possibility that legal certainty is guaranteed for their citizens, but that the progression remains in the directive. we do not want to challenge this tradition in the various countries, which is also linked to mobility and the economic situation, but we want to have a general concept with a european average age, and we want to focus on continuing training. there are and will be problems of equality. we have started a first attempt to include three- and four-wheel vehicles, but we also know that this cannot be done overnight. i personally, however, remain of the opinion that the equalisation of car and motorcycle licences is not advisable because driving behaviour is fundamentally different, although perhaps the understanding of one road user for the other could be improved. so, in short: simplification, legal certainty, road safety and fraud prevention - these are the main aspects we wanted to present in this proposal. i would like to thank all the members for the very sincere cooperation i have enjoyed over the past few months.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president, commissioner, fellow rapporteur, i must congratulate you. you have had a very difficult task, you have dealt with something which involves almost all citizens but which is also very technical, with many details and great differences between member states. your task was all the more difficult because everyone accepts the principles and says we must have a simpler system, better controls, etc., but nobody really wants to give up national differences. we are driving more and more on each other's roads, so we must also trust each other more and more in the papers we give to drivers, but we still regard the giving of that paper as a kind of strategic, almost military secret which each member state must keep for itself and where the stamps must therefore be kept in the strictest secrecy. i think that your assignment has made it very difficult and that it has not made our job any easier. my group is in favour of a european model, of course. we are in favour of this as soon as possible and therefore of regular administrative renewal. we are not in favour of any further tests being carried out. it's an administrative innovation, even for older people. the statistics don't say that. there is no indication that older people are particularly unsafe drivers. and besides, for a lot of older people, a car is just a social necessity, so let's not make it harder for them to drive. the same should apply to sick people. ideally, the decision to drive should be made between a patient and his doctor, with the doctor making a conscientious judgment as to whether a person can drive and the patient respecting that. i think we should keep that as a principle, not make too detailed european rules, impose general principles as your report does and then take the decision as close as possible to the citizen. let us let the commission, let us let the committee of european experts do their job, but i think that the best thing is to do it as close as possible to the citizens. our group has tabled a number of amendments to ensure that motorcycle and motorcycle licences are in line with the tradition in the member states and are not too restrictive. we support the general lines of your report, mr rapporteur. in any case, we consider this report to be a major step forward. that we take a step towards greater control within the european union. i would like to see the citizens of the union be made aware that they have a driving licence which enables them to drive a car, a motorcycle or something else in the union. that we in the union can rely on each other's tests that we take. so that we can be sure that whoever gets such a certificate is also a good driver of a moped, of a motorcycle or of a car or of a truck. i think that people are also aware that the european union is also there for very concrete things. i think your report is a step forward in that direction and i thank you for it.
thank you, mr president, and thank you, mr commissioner, for the very detailed reply. since i put the question, i have indeed received confirmation from various quarters that this is a fairly systematic practice on such a large scale that european producers of pet bottles are suffering enormous damage. i therefore think it is important that the commission should ask olaf to open an inquiry. i can also inform the commissioner that the european producers have submitted a request for revision of the anti-dumping legislation in accordance with the procedures. so my question is actually very specific, commissioner, and given the seriousness of the situation and the consequences it may have for the sector in our country, are you prepared to give a quick follow-up here?
mr president, the assassination of mr rafic hariri in lebanon has reignited the controversy over the eu-syria association agreement and the implementation of un security council resolution 1559, even as the bush and chirac governments are reconciling around the idea of a free and sovereign lebanon. the european parliament's position has always been very clear on the sovereign right of peoples to self-determination. he has repeatedly expressed his rejection of any form of explicit or covert occupation, whether in palestine, iraq or any other country in the world. but for a variety of reasons, political and historical, foreign forces have rarely been sanctioned. today, the death of mr hariri, whose unknown killers are still on the run, raises this and many other questions. should we ask the syrians to refrain from any interference in lebanese affairs? my answer is yes. should they finally end the state of emergency in which their country has been for more than thirty years? i know. should they democratize their society in depth, release activists in prison? my answer is a clear yes. should they withdraw their troops from lebanon? yes, and that's what they've started to do. should the signing of the cooperation agreement between syria and the european union be made subject to these conditions, as suggested by general morillon, and in particular to the immediate withdrawal of all syrian troops from lebanon? i'm questioning the council now. the question is crucial. mr. hariri's death has both nothing and everything to do with the answer. it is true that the murder must be fully exposed and that there must be an international investigation. that said, i really do ask the council whether it is advisable to sign such a long-awaited agreement, since it is the last of the meda agreements, and so often postponed. the european union must justify its conception of european foreign policy and democracy to the public. the question is not a vain one, it is a question i ask myself and we all ask ourselves.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, from 14 march to 22 april the united nations commission on human rights, so praised by some here, will be holding its 61st annual session in geneva. we can only hope that the un commission will be guided only by strict ethical and objective criteria and will no longer be influenced by considerations which have more to do with cynical realpolitik than with the defence of human rights. unfortunately, this has happened all too often in the past and it is clear to everyone that the united nations in general and the un commission in particular are operating with double standards. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am afraid that the commission will not be able to take a decision on it. last year, for example, the resolutions on zimbabwe, which the european union helped to table, and the resolution on china were rejected at the 60th session of the un commission on human rights. as far as these countries are concerned, the un went so far as to adopt what is known as a no-action motion. it is not the case that in some cases, i am thinking of china, the concern of un bureaucrats for human rights decreases proportionately with the economic interest of the countries concerned. we are not prepared to accept it, but it is a fact, particularly in the case of china, that some people have a double standard. china is the world champion of death sentences and executions, but that does not seem to deter several eu member states from setting aside the great ethical principles and remaining silent on human rights when chinese leaders are visiting europe. naturally, important contracts for airbus, for example, have to be put on hold. and then, of course, it's more advisable to keep quiet about the troublesome dalai lama or the troublesome taiwanese. and the same double standard is being applied to turkey, and this has of course been mentioned several times in recent months by speakers from various political groups, given the current situation. accession negotiations with turkey had to be and would be opened, and despite the continuing reports of numerous tortures, the suppression of freedom of expression and assembly, state negationism in connection with the armenian genocide, and the continued occupation of northern cyprus, it was not true that turkey met the copenhagen criteria. these are just two examples to show that in this world realpolitik still prefers the great democratic and ethical principles to which it gives lip service. neither the un nor our own eu are credible apostles and moral philosophers in this area.
mr president, someone once described the un commission on human rights in geneva as the annual human rights circus. in recent years it has been shown on several occasions that the sheets in geneva are handed out by countries which are themselves known human rights violators. by forming strategic alliances, they keep each other's hands above their heads and even manage to pat each other on the shoulder. a fundamental reform of the composition of the un commission and of the voting procedures is necessary. otherwise, she risks perishing from her own unworthiness. the european union also has a great responsibility in this respect. it must strive for greater coherence and consistency in its human rights policy. the union must finally take a real lead, so that the 61st session is not a superfluous show of strength but an efficient and credible debate leading to fair and, above all, concrete results.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, the fight against hunger and poverty is and will of course remain one of the greatest challenges of our time. and it is rightly said that there is a link between aid, debt relief and trade and that action in these three areas should be complementary. i should like to concentrate on the commercial aspect here today. being able to engage in the global economy offers benefits to all countries, whether rich or poor. as a concrete example, we could put comparable countries side by side, for example, south versus north korea. or the asian tigers against the south asian countries. a free, fair and development-oriented multilateral trading system is indeed an effective mechanism for reducing poverty and hunger. the european union in particular must ensure better access to the world market for the poorest countries, by giving priority to capacity building and technical assistance, so that trade-led development is made possible to the greatest extent possible. the next wto ministerial meeting in hong kong in december will be a crucial test of the willingness of the rich countries to give the poor countries a full opportunity to participate fully in world trade. doha has been proposed as the development round and after cancun we cannot afford a second failure. further liberalization of world trade is in any case a basic condition for more economic growth, both here and in the developing countries. alongside aid and alongside debt relief, properly liberalised trade is a very important, if not the most important, instrument for distributing the world's wealth more evenly and more equitably and for reducing the gap between rich and poor.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, it is well known that a particularly aggressive dumping policy, with unlikely price reductions of up to 70% below the price of raw materials, has already led to china taking over one third of europe's quota-free textile imports. if nothing is done, a european market which is now fully open will be flooded with cheap textiles from china, but also from india and pakistan. i have serious doubts, commissioner, whether the european commission's action plan of 13 october 2004 will be enough to help the european textile industry in its fight for survival. the plan provides for support measures but does not contain any trade-related measures. the plan would have monitored textile imports into europe from 1 january so that the commission could intervene quickly if necessary. but commissioner mandelson acknowledged last week in the committee on international trade that this monitoring system is still not operational and that criteria have not even been set. when will this finally be the case? what if it's too late? what if the calf drowned? i would urge the commission to use all possible means to combat the unfair trade practices of some countries. the commission has the means to do this, such as a horizontal safeguard clause, a textile-specific safeguard clause permitted under the multifibre arrangement in certain circumstances or, in the extreme case, complaints to the wto dispute settlement panel. in short, commissioner, what we expect from the commission is a more trade-oriented and a more aggressive approach. we must have the courage to take a stand against our major trading partners, especially when they are unfairly competing with us. the 177,000 companies and 2.7 million workers in the european textile industry are not being left in the cold.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, allow me to confront you with a statement by your dear colleague, mr mandelson. he recently said the following to the french newspaper "le figaro". i quote: "according to an oecd study, the abolition of textile quotas will save each family €270 a year". now, madam president, your colleague mr mandelson has unfortunately forgotten the thousands of families who will lose or have lost their jobs as a result of the abolition of quotas and the accompanying chinese 'flood wave'. mr mandelson is also very short-sighted because he is, whether consciously or not, overlooking the fact that the expected price reductions will only concern a very limited range of textile and clothing products, so will have a very limited effect in general. i am surprised and particularly disappointed by the ultra-liberal discourse of mr mandelson, but i will leave that aside. i have a few specific questions and suggestions. firstly, you can promise here that the commission will react and take action if it is proved that chinese products are dumped on the european market. this can be demonstrated by the prices of raw materials on the international markets. the commission must only have the will to do so. secondly, commissioner, what safeguard measures - and we have already spoken about them here - are you considering to prevent certain categories of products from being wiped out in europe as a result of unfair competition? finally, what concrete steps can you take, and will you take, to ensure that the basic, social and ecological thresholds are also respected in china? for example, you could make certain practices public in the context of a name and shame information campaign, to name a few. finally, commissioner, we are also informed that imports of textiles from china increased significantly, even spectacularly, last month. i hope that the commission will not now come up with the killer again, that our textile industry has had 10 years to adapt, because that would be the height of simplicity.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the epp group i would like to say that we are generally satisfied with the report adopted by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i can assure you, madam rapporteur, that we will unconditionally re-endorse the package of amendments, all nineteen of them. we have all worked together on the subject of unfair trading practices for a long time and as the work has progressed, from the green paper to now the second reading, we have become increasingly aware of the need to make the internal market not just an area where the free movement of goods and services simply takes place, but also an area where that free movement takes place with the assurance that all of that is in accordance with fair practices. it is not, of course, that until now, or until the directive comes into force, everything will be unfair. the member states have also taken their responsibility in the past when it was convenient for them, but we have found that as long as those member states arrange for such protection in a different way, we are faced with a problem in the internal market and in particular a problem of lack of confidence in that internal market. the confidence of the consumer who is not comfortable with it and therefore does not dare to look across the border, the confidence of the companies too, and i am thinking in particular of the smallest companies, which also have difficulty in crossing the border because they too do not know what the rules are on the other side of that border. i think, mr president, that the work we have done together deserves to be seen. it is a very balanced piece, it provides a high degree of consumer protection as the treaty expects us to do, but it also provides maximum legal certainty for the trader and the two together provide a perfect balance. we are also taking a cautious step towards full harmonization for the first time. i think we can do that in this one because we go very far in consumer protection. all this has been possible because we have worked together perfectly, perfectly with colleagues from other groups, perfectly with the people of the council, with the people of the commission. i would like to thank all those who were involved, because it is only because of that openness, transparency and constructive attitude that we have reached this point and that we can conclude the dossier at second reading. i would like to thank you, madam rapporteur, for your efforts in this area. president. - although this proposal concerns only b to c relations, we in the epp are satisfied that this legislative document explicitly states that if an undertaking finds that a competitor is infringing the directive, that fact can be used by that undertaking to make it a case of unfair commercial practices, a case of distortion of competition, in accordance with the national law of the country in question. we are also pleased that we have finally been able to identify the reference consumer amongst ourselves, that we are taking the average consumer as a reference point but that we are doing so without losing sight of the vulnerable consumer. i think we've found a very good balance there, too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president. - i have two minutes to make two specific points, both of which have to do with synergy. the commissioner, you know better than we do that the impact of the research programmes will be much greater if you succeed in bridging the gap between the research and development programmes under cohesion policy on the one hand and the seventh framework programme on the other. if these two instruments are coordinated, the result will be far more profound. let me give you an example from my own region, the border area between the netherlands, germany and belgium. the universities of eindhoven, leuven, aachen and also hasselt and maastricht are already working closely together on research, training and development, including in the context of cohesion projects. i believe that such crossborder cooperation projects deserve to be emulated and encouraged, because they strengthen the regional dimension of the lisbon process. the role of the cities, the universities and the regions in which they operate cannot be questioned, can it? we are therefore very pleased, commissioner, that an amendment to this effect by mr van nistelrooij has been adopted in the commission on the locatelli report which was adopted by parliament earlier this week. parliament expressly calls for cooperation with the regions and for a link to be established between the national programmes under the structural funds and the programmes under the seventh framework programme. the commissioner, to conclude, is aware that companies are ready to invest, to take advantage of the opportunities that arise. if the eu, if we are now financially underfunded, if we do not put our big words about innovation policy into action, then our credibility is, of course, in jeopardy, yours and ours, i think. we are also giving the national authorities an ideal excuse, the perfect excuse, to not use the national resources that are so necessary to get across the bridge. at the moment, there is what is called a window of opportunity, and many governments at all levels, regional, national and also european, of course, are convinced that we need to drastically increase our investment in innovation. if we let this momentum pass us by, i think we're just gonna have to look in our own boots.
the green group shares everyone's concern to ensure that the livelihoods of the fishing communities in the tsunami-affected areas are safeguarded and strengthened, but, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation which is being put forward is a bad idea, a bad proposal. we have heard the opinions of the wwf, we have heard the opinions of local ngos and i have also asked the fao for an opinion. turns out, the boats we're trying to get to are fit like a pig's tongue. there is a difference in structure, there is a different way of fishing and inappropriate aid can be counterproductive. there will also be problems in keeping the boats we are planning to send operational. in addition, the fao confirmed to me that most of the fisheries in that region are overfished and that we must take account of the limited biological capacity on the spot. adapted fishing techniques are an absolute necessity. on top of that, ladies and gentlemen, the fao also stresses that there is no demand from the affected countries to import old or new boats. the indonesian and sri lankan governments have even told the fao that this action is undesirable. the governments and the fishing communities would much rather have support to build their own boats, adapted to local traditions and fishing methods. the fao confirms that there is sufficient local technical capacity to build these boats locally. in short, this is unwanted and inappropriate support. the commission has even stated that it will accept only three of the 21 amendments which we have approved. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, that is why the president of my group voted against this proposal for a regulation by a large majority.
mr president, the opening of the so-called parliament of communist china was marked by the announcement of a vote on an anti-secession law. it is a threat to taiwan, which, as we all know, is a democratic country which has been de facto independent since 1941. at the same time, the communist regime announced an increase in military spending of 12.6%. it's hard to separate one fact from another. the european council is preparing to lift the arms embargo against china at this very moment. this is a decision which would be totally unacceptable if europe is to remain credible in relation to human rights in the world. it is therefore desirable that a strong signal should be sent from this parliament in favour of maintaining the arms embargo and against the threat of aggression by the so-called people's republic of china against democratic taiwan.
i am very pleased that you and many colleagues have already called attention to the way in which the women's march in istanbul was dispersed yesterday, but also to other serious irregularities in turkey. this is something that parliament cannot protest enough. the turkish authorities are not so concerned with respect for the human rights which women have been able to experience in practice yesterday. but now that commissioner rehn, who is responsible for enlargement, is starting his first official working visit to turkey today in preparation for the start of the accession negotiations, such violent action may still count. mr president, this situation illustrates that many of the reforms on paper are still not reflected in everyday life, that many reforms in the field of the rights of minorities, such as the kurds, have even come to a complete standstill, and that we in this parliament must follow developments closely over the next few months.
mr. president, the enlightenment philosopher voltaire once said, "i may disagree with what you think, but i will fight to the death to defend your right to say what you think". we who are supposed to defend human rights here and around the world sometimes forget that we have to sweep our own front door. god knows that i disagree with the mayor of london or the french humorist dieudonné on political matters, but i will never stop them from saying what they have said in the recent past. but with the same united forces, wherever we are on the political spectrum, we must be outraged at the way in which the torquemadas of the university of lyon have sacrificed a colleague of ours, bruno gollnisch, on the altar of political correctness. purely and simply for the sake of a crime of opinion. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. what happened in lyon today is a disgrace.
i am not speaking to you, mr president, as an exception, but to the women who are listening to us. while european politics is moving further and further away from the citizen, this is not the case for women's rights. these are present and give us hopes that we cannot disappoint. today i am proud of the european union and proud of its opposition to the amendment by the united states when it sought to restrict the right to abortion at the un last week. my thoughts go in particular to simone veil, who was president of this parliament and who gave france a law allowing voluntary abortion. thank you, madam, for your courage, for you have faced torrents of mud. today, some march in the streets shouting about your law: "thirty years is enough". for all the women who have experienced the anguish of an unwanted pregnancy, i say: thirty years is too little because abortion is again a taboo. thank you, ma'am. together, all political parties and beliefs, we will relay your fight to push back the fundamentalists. and i'll tell mr. libicki, who was worried about post-abortion depression, to look at postpartum depression, after childbirth. it's a woman's advice and a psychologist's!
the general system of preferences, which grants developing countries reduced import tariffs for the export of their products to europe, is the most concrete application of the principle of 'development by trade'. this system accounted for over 500 billion euros of exports from developing countries to europe last year. the report sets out the basic principles for the next ten years. i still believe, however, that this proposal for a regulation is too limited a translation of the objectives previously set by the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there would be more clarity, more flexibility and, above all, more transparency, including a rapid review procedure where necessary. i do not think that these objectives have been sufficiently achieved. the reform is a step in the right direction, but it is clearly not going far enough. the alde group therefore abstained from voting in the final vote in the committee on international trade and today tabled five amendments. these amendments have been deliberately kept to a minimum. they are reasonable and are aimed primarily at providing greater guarantees that the priority objectives are actually being achieved. our group wants the system to benefit those countries which really need it, and to protect our own industry against unfair or unfair competition. what we are seeking with our amendments is simply to prevent abuse or misuse of the system. i therefore sincerely hope that the rapporteur and our colleagues will be able to meet our concerns so that we too can vote in favour of this report when we vote later, or tomorrow.
president. - mr commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the review conference on the non-proliferation treaty is in a few weeks' time and it is not too soon, because in recent months the emphasis has been so much on real and sometimes alleged weapons of mass destruction that attention to nuclear proliferation would have been slackened if the developments in north korea and iran had not awakened us. there is a real danger that the non-proliferation regime will erode to the point of losing all meaning. with all the risks of a renewed, uncontrolled arms race. and that in a world that has become much more opaque and much more dangerous because of international terrorism. so this debate and the joint resolution before us are, as i said, not a moment too soon. my group calls on both the eu institutions and the member states to form a united front at the review conference and to make a strong plea for new initiatives on disarmament in general and nuclear disarmament in particular. since we count among our member states both nuclear and non-nuclear powers, this may not be so obvious. that is why i welcome the council's announcement that it is working hard on a common position for that conference. we also call on all third countries and all eu member states which have not yet done so to ratify the additional protocols to the international atomic energy agency as soon as possible. in the same vein, it is of the utmost importance that the comprehensive test ban treaty should come into force as soon as possible. this requires the ratification of a number of states, including, not least, the united states. as for the united states, we do not understand why it is constantly, and rightly so, warning of the dangers of weapons of mass destruction and at the same time working on a new generation of so-called 'light' nuclear weapons. there is no doubt that such a development will trigger another arms race, this time for a type of weapon that could fall into the wrong hands even more easily. we therefore call on the united states to abandon these plans and join us in devoting all its energies to the revitalisation of non-proliferation and disarmament efforts.
president. - the worrying developments in iran and north korea require us to speak with one voice as the european union. it also obliges us to work closely with the united states and all the other countries which are actually behind the non-proliferation treaty. it is of course important that there should be negotiations with north korea and iran and that the dialogue can still continue. but if it turns out that the dialogue does not produce concrete and satisfactory results, other means must be used if necessary, because states like north korea and iran, which possess nuclear weapons, are a threat to world peace. we must also ask ourselves, in the case of iran, why that country really needs nuclear energy, even for peaceful purposes. it is also politically disturbing that a violation of the non-proliferation treaty can be abused in practice to enforce all kinds of favourable terms. the treaty must be reinterpreted in such a way that high-risk states can no longer engage in nuclear enrichment and processing tout court.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, international terrorism, organized crime and the unpredictable behaviour of some states mean that the risk of nuclear conflict is still very high. the monitoring capacity of the international atomic energy agency should therefore be strengthened as a matter of urgency. the european union must have the courage to take political and economic action against countries that break the rules and try to circumvent controls. it must show the necessary ambition and commit itself to full implementation of the convention, especially at the next review conference. i also hope that the union can play an important role in persuading north korea to return to the negotiating table through dialogue and consultation. the united states, russia and france have begun the development of a new generation of nuclear weapons. however, a genuine commitment to non-proliferation and disarmament means that everyone, and not just the so-called rogue states, will put an end to the research and development of weapons of mass destruction. if this does not happen, all the statements on the subject will remain empty rhetoric.
mr president, will lebanon be one of those countries in the orange revolution whose people's awakening rings the bell of democracy? we wish. but lebanon is not like ukraine or georgia. it will not be easy, or even desirable, to sever the ties with syria sealed by the ta'if agreements. but these links must be clarified, cleaned up, and the popular push and the international pressure are working on it. what is clear today is that the killers of rafic hariri and the 14 lebanese citizens who died in the bombing are still on the run. the syrian army must be able to withdraw from lebanon without losing face, but the redeployment of its troops cannot be confined to the bekaa plain, while the timetable for the final withdrawal has not yet been set. the organisation of the next parliamentary elections is now a test of the will to change in this country. it is also because hezbollah remains a major player in syrian politics and is actually undermining the peace negotiations between israel and palestine, as mr morillon has said. but that will be the case as long as israel does not withdraw its troops from the golan, as the un has asked it to do through various resolutions. finally, the opposition, by uniting and wanting to proceed step by step, shows an astonishing maturity and shows that it is well in control of the pre-revolutionary situation that has been created. we can go along with this movement, but we cannot rush it. the european parliament must therefore be particularly vigilant in maintaining pressure on syria to fulfil its international commitments. everyone - lebanon, the european union, syria - knows how close the game is here. the shadow of war still hangs over beirut, but at the same time, the opposition in this country has never seemed so united. we know too little about this opposition, mr president. i would suggest that we use the coming weeks to deepen our ties with her. i would not like to end without expressing my condolences and my sympathy and friendship to mrs hariri, who will undoubtedly also be one of the actors in lebanon's future.
member of the commission. mr president, i am pleased to be here to set out the commission’s intentions on the services proposal. i have taken note of the reports referring to a possible withdrawal of the proposal by the commission. i can confirm to you that the commission has no intention of withdrawing the proposal currently on the table. based on my consultations and having listened carefully to all sides of the argument, i identified a number of areas where i believe changes would be required for the broad consensus i would like to see emerge. many of you have urged me to clarify the commission’s position on these points in the interest of facilitating parliament’s own deliberations. members may recall that during my hearing before the european parliament, i promised to consult and listen carefully before making any pronouncements on the draft directive, which the previous commission brought forward. since then i have been meeting extensively with meps, social partners and ministers. i was heartened by the degree of support there is across the political spectrum for opening the services market. if we want to achieve the levels of growth necessary for sustainable development then a vibrant services sector is a prerequisite. yet, the single market in services is often still a distant ambition, rather than a reality. if we are to let our economies develop and grow we must maintain a clear focus on the services market. the services directive is a key element in our efforts to relaunch the lisbon agenda. getting the full benefit that services can bring to the eu economy will boost growth and jobs. if we are serious about the lisbon agenda, we must be serious about the services market. after my initial round of contacts, i went to president barroso and said that i believed the current proposal would never be adopted unless we were prepared to accept modifications. that is why in presenting the commission’s views on the lisbon strategy to you some weeks ago, president barroso indicated that the commission believed some changes would be necessary to ensure success. opening up the services market is an ambitious project. the proposal to achieve this is innovative. to be successful we need a broad consensus. there are aspects of the current draft that are giving rise to serious concerns. the debate had become too polarised. many of you have raised such concerns and it is clear that shortcomings have to be addressed. i had the opportunity to outline my views briefly to the conference of presidents last week and i am happy to discuss this further with you today. let me reiterate the areas i have identified. the directive will have to be clear that conditions and standards for workers will not be affected in any way. the text will have to be watertight on this point. there will be no change to the existing situation in this regard. i do not want to hear any more talk about so-called 'social dumping'. this is not what this proposal is about and we should put an end to this confusion. another area i have identified is the exclusion from the scope of the directive of sectors such as health and publicly funded services of general interest: for obvious reasons, people regard these sectors as particularly sensitive. we should address concerns about the operation of the country of origin principle. we need to maintain this if we want to promote the cross-frontier provision of services. to do so we will need to address key issues such as giving greater confidence and certainty to businesses and consumers on what law will apply to cross-border transactions. we also need to build the trust and confidence between member states necessary for it to operate effectively. the above points reflect the principal areas emerging from my own consultations. it is of course up to you in parliament to make your own decisions. clearly, it is your responsibility to decide on the amendments you want to bring forward. on behalf of the commission, i am merely signalling our willingness to work openly and constructively with you. yesterday at the council of ministers for competitiveness there was an exchange of views on the services proposal. the presidency welcomed the clear statement that no new proposal would be presented by the commission. it endorsed the suggestion that health and social services of general interest be excluded from the proposal. it agreed that the current text needed to be modified if it was to be adopted. i hope we can now move the discussion in the european parliament and council onto the positive elements that this proposal can bring. many aspects of the proposal have met with broad support and we should build on these. removing the red tape currently strangling efforts to establish or provide services on a cross-border basis will make a real contribution to entrepreneurship, growth and job creation. ensuring that companies have easy access to information on requirements they have to comply with will contribute to this, as will the simplification of authorisation procedures. service providers and their customers and consumers should not see their desire to benefit from the single market frustrated by being subjected to discriminatory and disproportionate requirements. recipients of services should also have easy access to information on service providers and their services. it should be easier to choose a service provider from another member state. quality of services should be guaranteed and simple access to dispute settlement must be available. we need to develop the cooperation, confidence and assistance between member state administrations. this is what the single market in services is about. it will increase competition, stimulate entrepreneurship and provide new opportunities for service providers, which will give a much-needed boost to the eu economy. by ensuring that we deliver on this we will give the services economy the boost it requires. we will fulfil the commitment set out in the lisbon agenda. i am prepared to be constructive and positive. from the meetings i have had with many of you, i have learned a great deal and very useful and constructive suggestions have been made. i remain open and available to all of you to discuss particular ideas, concerns or proposals you may have. i believe that with this i have outlined the commission’s position and our desire to work loyally within the codecision process. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is grateful for this opportunity to make a statement on the proposal on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions. i have already had the opportunity to discuss the proposal with the committee on legal affairs on 2 february and with the conference of presidents on 3 march. on both occasions i took very careful note of parliament’s views. i noted that parliament considers, in general, that its views were not given sufficient weight at first reading. from the debate in the legal affairs committee, i noted that there are differing views on the substance of the proposal, in particular its content and purpose. the commission gave careful consideration to parliament’s request of 24 february, submitted under article 55 of parliament’s rules of procedure. but the commission concluded that at that stage, regrettably, it could not submit a new proposal as parliament requested. that was not because the commission wished to persist stubbornly with the proposal, but because the council was on the point of adopting a common position. as i explained to the conference of presidents, the council reached a political agreement in may 2004 at first reading. the council has been on the verge of confirming the political agreement in the form of a common position since december 2004. the commission had supported the political agreement of may 2004. the commission could not, therefore, go back on its word when the council was in the process of confirming its common position. the council has now made up its mind and adopted its common position. it did so yesterday at the competitiveness council. jeannot krecké, chair of the competitiveness council, has already explained to the legal affairs committee the reasons behind the council’s stance. it confirmed its common position, primarily for institutional reasons. the council wanted to avoid the setting of a precedent, with member states being seen to back away from a deal they had signed up to in may 2004. the council confirmed its position to show that a deal is a deal and that it was not creating a logjam in a key area for innovation. yesterday, when the council took its decision, jeannot krecké noted that some member states had concerns about the substance of the text and that these would be addressed at second reading. the ball is now very clearly in the european parliament’s court. it is for you to decide how you want to play it. i do not have to remind you of parliament’s rights: we discussed this in the conference of presidents. you can, of course, reject or substantially amend the proposal. if parliament decides to reject it, then the commission will respect your wishes. i will not propose a new directive. should you decide to propose amendments, the commission will give them due consideration. no doubt improvements can be made. you will understand, of course, that i cannot speak on behalf of the council and i would urge parliament to engage constructively with the council on this subject in the future. i am ready to help in any way. before concluding, i would like to say a few words on the substance of the proposal, since parliament will now need to turn its attention to this. the commission proposed to clarify the legal rules on patentability for software-related inventions. this does not include computer programs or other software as such. it means inventions that make a technical contribution and that are truly novel. such inventions are present in a number of everyday consumer goods such as cars, mobile telephones and domestic appliances. the commission’s intention in making its proposal was to avoid the patenting of pure software and make a clear distinction between the european union and the united states. nothing that is not patentable now will be made patentable by the directive. the current rules in the european patent convention leave patent examiners very wide decision-making powers. there can be different interpretations as to whether an invention can be patented. this leads to uncertainty for businesses. small and medium-sized enterprises in particular are negatively affected by the lack of clarity in the existing rules. i would like to remind members that, in the absence of a directive, patents will continue to be granted. if patent offices decide to grant patents for pure software, then expensive procedures before the courts will be the only option for those who wish to object. those of you who have been directly involved in working on this proposal know as well as i do that this is a very complex area. any modifications will need to be carefully examined. the directive cannot be turned on its head. we need to maintain a proper balance between stimulating innovation and making sure competition is not stifled. i hope i have not spoken for too long. the situation is now clear. the ball is in your court. i am sure you will exercise your rights and your judgement wisely. whatever you decide, i would like to reassure you that the commission is listening. i know there is a new wind blowing. that is reflected in the positions expressed in the council and parliament and the commission will take account of this and respect it.
we have listened to you carefully, mr president, commissioner, and we have also listened to you with pleasure, because we have heard that you intend to let parliament play its legislative role and you can count on us to do the same. i would like to ask you again, for the sake of clarity, whether we will really find an ally in you if we amend the directive in such a way that we do change part of the architecture of the country of origin principle, if we make it clear that services of general interest are excluded and that health and social services are also excluded. i would like to know in more detail whether you would be able to support us when we launch the idea of working with a positive list as regards the use of the principle of country of origin, possibly also as regards the scope. thirdly, what are you going to do about the health services? will the commission make a new proposal or do you have other plans for the future?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would venture to say that we all want to build an internal market, but there are many sensitive points in this directive. i am therefore pleased, commissioner, that you have understood the criticism, not only from my group but from the whole spectrum of this house. i would like to ask for some clarification, however, because it is not always clear how far you are prepared to go with us. my colleagues have also pointed this out. two points, commissioner. firstly, you say that the scope of this directive is probably too broad and you speak in your 'speaking notes for the conference of presidents' of 'public funded services of general interest'. you were just talking about social services. could you clarify what exactly you mean? the services of general interest are much broader than just social services. secondly, the question of where you are going with the principle of the country of origin is not at all clear. do you agree with us that the principle of the country of origin can only work if there is a sufficient degree of harmonization and mutual recognition? if there really is a basis for trust. i think that constructive cooperation is possible only if you, commissioner, can explain to us what you mean by that.
member of the commission. the honourable member is right in his assumption that the court of auditors, as the financial conscience of europe, has to meet the highest possible standards of transparency and accountability. in that light, the court is also subject to the scrutiny of olaf, which carries out systematic investigations when it is informed of serious suspicions of irregularity, fraud or other illegal activities within the european union institutions. the commission can confirm that the provisions of the staff regulations, to which the honourable member refers, apply to personnel of all the institutions, including the court of auditors. it is indeed known to the commission that the former member of the court of auditors who was implicated in an inquiry carried out by olaf took legal action in greece against a former official of the court of auditors who testified against her during the olaf investigation. in fact, the official informed olaf himself of his legal action, which is currently under preliminary investigation. the commission would like to point out that it is the duty of the institutions to protect officials or ex-officials who are the subject of discriminatory treatment. rules in the current staff regulations with regard to these whistle-blowers also apply to the court of auditors. with complete respect for the rules of procedure enforced in greece, olaf has taken the necessary steps to provide the former official with all the information that he has requested and that olaf can provide in order to assist him in his defence. the anti-fraud commissioner has indicated to me that he is more than willing to discuss this matter in greater detail with the honourable member at a time of his choice.
- i'm the substitute author. president, i thank the commissioner for his reply and i apologise to mr van buitenen, who was unable to be here because of unforeseen circumstances. i was glad to be able to replace mr van buitenen, because i was the member who initiated this whole matter in the previous legislature. i have planned an investigation at the court of auditors, i have also handed the file over to olaf and i was very pleased that olaf has also seriously investigated this case. i very much welcome the offer of the anti-fraud commissioner to consult further, because i think it is extremely important that the court of auditors takes its responsibility here and that people who have been called as witnesses by olaf are not punished through a trial in their own country for their courageous behaviour. i therefore gladly accept the commissioner's offer to consult mr kallas in more detail with mr von buitenen.
president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and the commission, of course, for the positive changes in the system. i am thinking in particular of the simplification of the system and the introduction of sap plus, which will encourage the countries most in need to adopt and apply a number of important conventions. the positive aspect is that a number of new products will be introduced into the system. in addition, the recent amendment to the proposal in response to the tsunami disaster deserves our support. this will enable the countries concerned to benefit more rapidly from the new system. i should like to make a small comment, however, on the date of entry, as some of my colleagues have done. the countries must submit an application to the european commission by 31 may. this is incredibly fast and it is therefore advisable to have some flexibility and to allow for a transitional period of sufficient length. in particular, countries eligible for gsp plus should be able to join the scheme after may 2005. the european commission should also pay particular attention to capacity building in these countries and should also provide them with as much technical assistance as possible in the implementation of, for example, international conventions, so that they can make the most of the benefits of sap plus. in the meantime, negotiations on economic partnership agreements are also continuing. we must ensure that countries which do not wish to conclude an agreement in this way can be covered by sap plus. finally, mr president, i would like to call for regular impact assessments, both of the effects within the eu and of the effects on developing countries, as conditions are almost constantly changing. just think of what is happening in the textile and sugar sectors.
member of the commission. mr president, human tissues and cells have become an important part of healthcare. their therapeutic use continues to increase, not only in terms of the frequency of use of tissues and cells, but also in the range of ways in which they can be used. tissues and cells are often acquired through cross-border exchanges. over the past decade, the interchange of these human substances, both within europe and between europe and third countries, has increased. the fact that the exchange of tissues and cells can result in the transmission of disease has focused attention on the need for increased safety measures. the european institutions responded to this concern by adopting a directive in march 2004 establishing quality and safety requirements for human tissues and cells. the directive ensures that an increasing number of patients in europe treated with human tissues and cells can trust that these substances are safe and of good quality. that constitutes yet another step forward in fulfilling the mandate in article 152 of the treaty, which is to set high standards of quality and safety for substances of human origin. the directive has to be transposed by 7 april 2006 in all member states. on that date, it must, therefore, be applied in all member states, including the united kingdom, and will also be part of the community acquis to be implemented by romania under the enlargement process. i would like to underline a key point. article 152, upon which the directive is based, aims to regulate public health issues. as was made clear during the debate in parliament leading up to the adoption of the directive, although fundamental ethical principles can be raised and endorsed, it is not possible to have binding community regulations. on the question of voluntary unpaid donations of tissues and cells, this was debated at length during the codecision procedure on the tissues and cells directive. i know it was an important issue for the european parliament and i believe that a good compromise solution was reached. article 12 of the directive states that member states shall endeavour to ensure voluntary and unpaid donations of tissues and cells. donors may receive compensation but this is strictly limited to making good expenses and inconveniences related to the donation. in that case, member states define the conditions under which compensation should be granted. both the council and parliament accepted this solution. it goes to the limit of what the commission believes to be legally acceptable, given the provisions of article 152 of the treaty. this does not mean, however, that the directive is unclear on the conditions of exchange of tissues and cells. on the contrary, article 12 conveys a very clear message as to the voluntary and unpaid character that such exchanges should have. this, of course, refers back to values that go beyond safety issues. accordingly, the commission considers that paying substantial fees to obtain human egg cells would go against the philosophy of the tissues and cells directive. it could open the door to a trade where people in need could be drawn into acts that should instead be motivated by altruistic principles. both the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the convention on human rights and biomedicine of the council of europe prohibit turning the human body and its parts into a source of financial gain. the commission will monitor carefully the implementation of the tissues and cells directive in the current and future member states. we will do so with regard to its banning provisions and also with regard to the overall spirit of the directive, such as the principle of voluntary unpaid donation, clearly expressed in article 12. to ensure proper interpretation in the candidate countries, the commission organised a peer review in romania and bulgaria in 2004. this review analysed the situation in the two countries and identified future actions to be taken to ensure compliance with eu requirements in this field. this process led to a number of recommendations. the competent authorities of the two countries are willing to incorporate the principles of the directive into national legislation. this will be followed up this year. the commission is conscious of the importance of encouraging the voluntary and unpaid donation of tissues and cells of high quality and safety. that, in my opinion, is the best way to avoid illicit trade. in this respect, the commission also considers it very important to encourage member states to incorporate the principle of voluntary and unpaid donation into their national legislation. tissue and cell donation programmes should be founded on that basis.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, before we get into the heart of the matter, i would like to say in this house that it is almost a miracle that all the groups in this house have succeeded today in producing a compromise text on this matter of concern to us. i'm delighted to hear that on this international women's day. so what exactly are we talking about? the speakers before me have already mentioned this. we are talking about the existence of a clinic in bucharest, romania, which specialises in the donation of ova to european union nationals, particularly british nationals, in return for financial compensation: £150 on average. and that is the crux of the problem, because tonight, commissioner, you will hear talk about either payment or fair compensation. more than a nuance, it is in fact a philosophical opposition to this very sensitive question of the gift, of the gratuitousness of this gift. this applies to organs as well as to the two directives previously adopted by the union on the quality and safety of blood and on the quality and safety of tissues and cells respectively. so is there or is there not payment and therefore trade in eggs in the case of the romanian clinic? the british national authority, the human fertilisation and embryology authority, after a thorough investigation on the ground, responded by concluding that there was no evidence of payment. we therefore ask the commission to make this matter absolutely clear. is she, mr kyprianou, aware of any new facts in romania or in other member states of the european union? since i am here, it seems important to me that, even before the entry into force of this directive on tissues and cells, the commission should present us with a state of the art on the national legislation on gamete donation and the compensation systems provided for in the member states. on these issues - research and ethics - the alde group is clear: europe is not in a position to harmonize ethics; subsidiarity must come first and countries with a conservative position on this matter cannot prevent europe from carrying out stem cell research to meet the hopes of millions of patients in gene and cell therapy. that is why, after our internal debate this evening, we shall vote against paragraph 11. secondly, the common interest of donors and patients must be given priority, in terms of access to these specific treatments but also, of course, quality and safety at both ends of the chain. and finally, this fight for safety and quality in gamete donation, specifically, as in blood donation, if it comes through free, it also comes through availability. you have just mentioned, commissioner, the need for the member states to incorporate the question of voluntary and free donation into their legislation. this type of medical tourism could perhaps be avoided if the member states of the european union also agreed to look in a transparent way at the principle and amount of these compensations. i am referring here, as you are, to the compromise reached at the end of the homeric debates and which is contained in article 12 of the directive: that is paragraph 5, the crucial point of our resolution. many member states are well aware of this and have already started to debate the matter, as in the uk. in a nutshell, commissioner, the objective of this text is to wage a unremitting fight together for solidarity, for quality, against scarcity, against trafficking, against all the trafficking of which women in particular may be victims. i come, in conclusion, to the first point of our resolution and to the basic texts of the european union. the human body is inalienable and cannot be a source of profit.
we are facing a historic challenge in europe, mr president, and the epp-ed group wants to take up this challenge, because we want the next generations to be well off, to enjoy our social model, to have a job and to be entitled to a decent pension. economic growth and jobs are an absolute prerequisite for this. we must achieve this with an ageing population and against the backdrop of an aggressive process of economic globalisation. to succeed in this we need clarity and vision, but also the right decisions and, above all, the implementation of decisions. a european stick behind national doors in the form of a new form of governance will certainly help. we are grateful to the president-in-office for the courageous decision of the barroso commission to give new impetus and life to the lisbon strategy, and in doing so, on the advice of the kok working party, to give priority to growth and jobs in a balanced social and ecological context. it is a sign of fairness and it is also in line with our approach to a values-based europe of the people. the recommendation of the steering group, the recommendation of the conference of presidents, has our full support and, yes, the wording is general, but it is up to the member states to make concrete choices. we are leading the way and there is no doubt about our basic attitude. we must choose competitiveness, a positive business climate - including and especially for smes - economic growth and jobs. the three initiatives announced by the commission will certainly fit into that. we must provide the means to achieve our objectives. member states must plan and deliver. we will encourage national parliaments to encourage their governments to act. reforms are now needed to provide the prospect of sustainable development in all respects. finally, mr president, we must all be involved, all the institutions, all the social partners at european level, in the regions and in the member states. i am therefore pleased to hear that the socialist group is also in favour of the resolution. that means that we are once again in a climate of constructive dialogue, and that will benefit the work and responsibility of parliament.
i will support the resolution that will be put to the vote because, as president barroso has said, i believe that the three children are now treated equally. it is not a derivative of the other, but it is a complementary one. i fully support the policy outlined by commissioner verheugen to make the economy compete on quality and not on cost, because that would lead us down a dead end. i do ask for a discussion on the method of achieving the objectives, because i think that if this method is no longer community, the objectives cannot be achieved. finally, i would ask you to take note of parliament's request for the creation of a legal framework for services of general interest, together with a revised services directive. that will make the work of this parliament much easier.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr minister, mr president of the commission, madam vice-president, on the question of the stability pact, our group unequivocally supports the efforts of the luxembourg presidency and, in particular, supports the idea of a list of relevant factors - as mr juncker has indicated. i think we need to move forward towards a greater differentiation of national economies, particularly in terms of their level of indebtedness and the needs they face. so yes to an explicit list of factors which would allow a more intelligent political assessment - to use mr prodi's expression - of the stability pact. however, an amendment to the pact is not yet a european coordination of budgetary policies - as mrs de sarnez has just mentioned. i would like to address the council on this subject, stating that the comments i have read after the ecofin council, in particular the fact that an agreement reached within the euro zone, with 12 members, would not necessarily be validated by all the members of the council, which means 25 members, give - in my view - a very worrying political signal. and from this point of view, the triangle to which mr juncker referred at the beginning of the luxembourg presidency when he spoke of the lisbon strategy, when he spoke of the stability pact, but also when he spoke of the financial perspectives, makes perfect sense. i think that those states which would be prepared to make additional budgetary efforts to obtain financial perspectives and a budget of the european union that is up to the task, that meets the objectives we want to give it, should find an echo in the interpretation of the stability pact. from this point of view, the political timing is not very good, since the spring european council is being asked to agree on lisbon and the stability pact, and to postpone the debate on the financial perspective to june. but i think that the risk of division between the new member states in particular and the old member states is a political risk which should not be underestimated in this whole debate. finally, on sustainable development, i am still quite surprised at the lightness of the subject. the european commission has presented a report on the community strategy for sustainable development, which therefore concerns the sectoral policies of the union. this report is very critical. he has the honesty to be very critical. so if the major political impulse that mr barroso expects and that we expect from the council is to say: 'we are going to make a european charter of indicators', excuse me for saying so, just look at the reports of the european environment agency and you will have your indicators. we expect much more, we expect much more binding targets to be set for transport policy, energy policy and the kyoto commitments. we can no longer simply go back to the question of indicators and say in the morning: 'we want fewer indicators', and in the afternoon: 'we want more'. what exactly do we want? we want effective policies and we want the commission and the council to follow up seriously the commitments made in gothenburg.
i would like to draw the council's attention to the fact that the brutal action taken by the turkish police against demonstrators a few days ago has led to very justified protests throughout europe and even, i would say, to some more open questions about whether a country like turkey can be a member or a candidate for membership of the european union. this is of course a little strange in itself, because we have known for more than a few days that turkey does not take human rights seriously at all and has, moreover, been pursuing a genuine policy of genocide against ethnic minorities and non-muslims for many years. i think that the incidents of a few days ago are indeed a good reason for the council to urgently review the whole turkey dossier. there are enough fundamental reasons for that.
i think, mr president, that as a member of this parliament i have the right to call the attention of the european council to any subject and it is not the president who has to interfere with the substance of the contributions of a member of this parliament. i think there are enough fundamental reasons to put this on the agenda. i repeat, turkey is not a european country politically, culturally, economically or historically, and i am not even talking about the problem of islam. although no one could deny that the possible expansion of a country of 70 to 100 million muslims threatens to fundamentally change the nature of our society. i would ask the council again to review the turkey dossier as soon as possible, also for internal democratic reasons. the way in which the debate on turkish accession has been blocked in all european countries in recent months, and the way in which the voters and citizens have been shielded and shunned from expressing their views on the matter, i must say is totalitarian and undemocratic. our citizens are wise enough to decide for themselves in a referendum on turkish membership. anyone who denies them and us - and i now say to parliament - the right to speak to the council at any time about this fundamental problem is doing the european union a disservice and is taking us a step further towards a totalitarian european regime, with which we cannot agree in any case. it is the duty of the council to deal with this matter with the greatest urgency.
i thank the president for his answer and at the same time i would like to express some surprise at the fact that there is talk of a war between two parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my question is: would it not be appropriate to include the issue of the lord's resistance army and the massive human rights violations in the political dialogue with sudan, and not just in the political dialogue with uganda? two , you 're not . what initiatives does the council intend to take to combat impunity in this conflict, particularly in relation to the complaint lodged with the international criminal court in the hague?
president of the council. the council informs the honourable member that the allocation of the amount mentioned is still under discussion between the commission and the member states concerned. the council as such has not been consulted on this matter. it invites the honourable member to put this question directly to the commission.
president, mr president-in-office of the council, i must say that your answer is very diplomatic. we all know that there is such an agreement, we know that there is money in a luxembourg account and we know that that money must be distributed. we know that the budgetary authority has two branches, the council and the parliament. it is not a question of the council and parliament acting together as the budgetary authority, in agreement with the commission, agreeing on how to allocate this money. i do not think you can say that i should put that question to the commission. it's a lot of money. i have heard that now 10% would go to the commission and 90% to the member states, whereas the usual procedure in customs practice, in the collection of money, is that 25% goes to the member state and 75% to the commission. i therefore believe that this is a serious matter and that you cannot simply reject me with a diplomatic answer.
before we begin this debate, mr president, i would like to ask, without, of course, wanting to diminish the qualities of commissioner frattini, whether you know the reason why the commissioner responsible for the environment is not present at this very important debate on natura 2000. i can only regret that and i find it unacceptable.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i too regret the absence of commissioner dimas, but i would like to thank commissioner frattini for agreeing to be present on a matter which is not really within his remit. i, for my part, on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, would like to warmly congratulate our rapporteur, mrs auken, on the quality of her report and also on her tenacity, i would say, in defending our common objectives. the vote tomorrow, as we will of course have understood, is crucial. natura 2000 is the main tool for the conservation of biodiversity and endangered species in the union. despite the slowness of some member states, local authorities and actors have started to work. natura 2000 now covers more than 18 000 sites, 64 million hectares and almost 15% of the land area in europe. as regards the question of financing, yes, we must ensure the sustainability of financing, of the co-financing of natura 2000 by using, as the commission proposes, the existing sectoral financing instruments: the cap rural development fund and the structural funds. the integrated approach is certainly the most logical approach in this respect, but we should also go to the end of this logic and ensure that the inclusion of the natura 2000 network in the relevant funds is made compulsory. this is the main criticism that the players on the ground are making to you, commissioner, and that is supported by no less than 15 member states and the european parliament: natura 2000 is by definition a concrete example of local governance, so it is clear that if local elected officials or managers are not forced to clearly promote the conservation of habitats and species in special areas, the money will go to other things, such as road construction or economic or social development projects. this is what is recalled in the important paragraph 8 of our resolution, which our group strongly supports. finally, we are also in favour of paragraph 5, which calls on the commission to commit itself to modifying the future financial instrument life+ to include a nature conservation component and also to guarantee a minimum amount for natura 2000 in the near future, an amount which, as with other european policies, must be commensurate with our ambitions. the objectives are clear: to work together to protect the environment. mr president, on a procedural motion concerning the french translation and this is important for the vote in plenary tomorrow. if i am not mistaken, and i do not think i am, the french translation is not complete, and i refer to point 5, which is a crucial point as i have just said, since it concerns the financing and the amount of this financing. i think that the english translation, which is the other text i have here, should refer to it, since it has seven lines more than the french translation and these seven lines refer precisely to what i have just said, namely the proposed minimum amount of eur 21.35 billion. i think it will be necessary to point out tomorrow that seven lines are missing at the end of the french text. we shall also have to find out which language version is the correct one.
it is clear that the financing of the natura 2000 network remains very uncertain. we have no problem as such - as you have heard - with the integrated approach, but then the commission will have to draw up some very firm guarantees or guidelines. they are not available at the moment and, if i listened to the commissioner, they will not be. the financing is a very important matter, however. the european parliament has done all it can and has spared no effort to convince the commission that it is too easy to play pontius pilate. another thing is the implementation in the field. if we go home on friday and a local authority, a farmer, a nature association or, why not, our neighbour asks us what we have actually approved, what it means to them in concrete terms and what is going to happen to it, then we must continue to owe the answer. however, it is important to create a very strong public support for the realisation of the natura 2000 network. the procedure for implementing the birds and habitats directives has been carried out without the involvement of the public and this has resulted in its publication, at least in my country, not yet taking place because of its very sensitive political nature. if we want to give natura 2000 a serious chance and not give people the impression that another decision is being made from above, it is important that we inform them as quickly and correctly as possible about the consequences of that decision. it is not important to people where the money comes from, from a special fund, from a structural fund or from a rural development fund. what they do want to know is whether and by whom they will be compensated if certain things are no longer allowed or if their land is devalued. questions such as 'can i still build' and 'what about the manure problem' will certainly come up when it comes to agricultural land. conclusion the commission must communicate as quickly as possible, clearly and unambiguously. there is too much uncertainty at the moment, and that is certainly not good for nature.
the present european sugar regime is unsustainable, unaffordable and market-distorting on a global scale. europe alone still spends over eur 3 billion a year on export subsidies for agricultural products, including sugar. in the ongoing wto doha negotiations, the rich countries have promised to drastically reduce these subsidies. the success of this important round of trade will depend, among other things, on the willingness to honour this promise. in the sugar reform we cannot of course ignore our commitments to the acp countries. under the sugar protocol to the cotonou agreement, they enjoy preferential treatment for their exports to europe, which they can sell at the same subsidised price as european producers. if this aid is reduced now, it will also be at the expense of the many sugar farmers in the south for whom sugar is often the only source of income. temporary compensation and transitional measures as for european sugar producers are not provided for them. it is not the intention that our sugar reform should plunge tens of thousands of farmers in the south into even greater poverty.
in writing. i voted for mrs aubert's report which encourages the development of organic food and agriculture. these practices have been evolving in europe for some years and are responding to a demand from european consumers for a healthy and varied diet. to reassure farmers and citizens, it is also essential to introduce strict controls to prevent the risk of contamination in the event of coexistence of organic crops with transgenic crops. the belgian position is similar: the assessment of controls and risks related to gmos must be based on independent scientific expertise. in addition, solutions are urgently needed to the practical difficulties faced by farmers in the organic sector: in belgium, consumer demand for organic products is not at all constant and often changes depending on food crises. farmers suffer from these fluctuations where their efforts and investments should be rewarded. it is essential that farmers are not forced to sell at a loss. because defending organic farming means fighting for quality, safety and, let us not forget, consumer choice.
in writing. i denounce on behalf of the liberal members of the alde group the vote this afternoon on the joint resolution on the 'trade in eggs'. a vote which, under the pretext of fighting against the exploitation of women, for the inalienability of the human body, aims at a completely different objective: to prohibit directly or indirectly research on embryonic stem cells and therapeutic cloning... a moralistic, retrograde and obscurantist vote which turns away and calls into question the yes which this same european parliament said on 19 november 2003 to funding research on embryonic stem cells. this is part of the 6th framework programme for research and development. it is a disastrous signal sent by 307 members of parliament to couples waiting for the gift of life but also to the hundreds of thousands of patients in europe who are putting all their hopes of a cure into research, diabetics, patients with parkinson's disease, alzheimer's disease and many other pathologies. we are 199 in this parliament whose ambition is unchanged: to meet these hopes, not only by our vote for progress and solidarity, but above all by supporting modern and humanistic medical research for the benefit of patients waiting for treatment.
in writing. eu support for research must be in line with the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy. that is why i have given my full support to this ambitious report. a country like belgium should follow the example of some of its european neighbours who have dared to invest in scientific research. finland is a model in this respect. with 3.5% of its gdp spent on research, it is already exceeding the eu's 3% target for 2010. the results in finland speak for themselves. the number of doctoral students trained each year has doubled in ten years and the country has 26000 more researchers in the same period (+50%). we must also change attitudes. on average, a young european researcher working in the us receives 2.5 times more research support than in europe. to stem the brain drain, we need to make europe more attractive to the best researchers and also to promote scientific careers among our young people. considerable progress is still needed in areas such as public health, the environment and high technology.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like first of all to apologise to the commissioner and to my colleagues for the fact that, unfortunately, because of the departure of my plane, i will not be able to stay until the end of this debate. i apologize for that. mr sam rainsey - and you know that sam is his family name and rainsey is his first name - and his wife are very good friends of mine. so i have experienced firsthand the difficulty of the struggle being waged. to give you an example, the party of mr sam rainsey bears the name sam rainsey because that is the only name that could not be refused by the party of hun sen. all the other names he tried before were rejected. this is to give you an idea of the power mechanism that exists in that country. what is particularly bad, even worse than the fate of our three colleagues in the cambodian parliament, is the fact that cambodia is still one of the poorest countries in the world, one of the poorest countries in south-east asia, and that cambodian society is still characterized by an unusually high level of daily violence. violence that is politically inspired, that is criminally inspired and that is being done very little about. we must also not forget that despite all the fine promises made by the cambodian government, and mr hun sen has, as you know, followed his own example, it has not yet really done any serious work in bringing to justice in its own country those most responsible for the mass destruction, the genocide, perpetrated by the khmer rouge, and it does not look as if this will happen any time soon. so naturally we are concerned about the fate of our colleagues, which could also affect other members of the opposition. but i would urge you not to lose sight of the fact that the european union is cambodia's largest donor and that fact alone means that we do have the leverage to make this terrible regime feel better.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in cambodia is indeed a cause for concern. in supporting this joint resolution by six groups in this parliament on cambodia, i would like to stress two points, at the risk of perhaps repeating what some of my colleagues have just said. the first point i want to make today is the withdrawal of parliamentary immunity from three members of sam rainsy's party. first of all, cheam chani, who has also been imprisoned and is to be tried before a military court, whereas a citizen of this country cannot be tried before a military court. then there's chea po and sam rainsy himself, who both fled cambodia so they could witness what's happening there in a more effective way. it is essential that their immunity be restored so that they can return to their elected role, a role conferred by cambodian voters. it should be noted that we received sam rainsy two weeks ago, at the february plenary session, here, on the occasion of the visit of the asean delegation. he had expressed the wish that we would do something. it was our duty to make that gesture today. secondly, i would like to see more effective monitoring of the various aid measures in cambodia, as has just been mentioned. it is inconceivable that in the last ten years, according to the united nations development programmes, there has been a worsening of three important development indicators in this country: the number of people living below the poverty line, the rate of illiteracy among adults and the infant mortality rate. there is a concern that aid may not reach its intended recipients and may not really meet the real needs of the population. effective monitoring and control of aid must be carried out in this country in order to reverse this unfortunate trend. it would be desirable for the cambodian government to state its good intentions regarding the effectiveness of the measures taken and implemented for its country and to provide explanations on the destination of european aid in particular.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the whole world has heard that the parliamentary elections in zimbabwe have been won by an overwhelming majority by the zanu party of president mugabe. but no one is under any illusions because everyone knows that these elections were not free and fair at all. there was intimidation and terror by mugabe's supporters, and massive election fraud. however, the southern african development community observers stated that the elections were free and that the result fully reflected the will of the people of zimbabwe. meanwhile, the country continues to sink into the abyss. ladies and gentlemen, it is urgently time for a different policy, a policy whereby the european union puts the african countries in charge. the so-called silent diplomacy of the south african president amounts to complicity with the mugabe regime. the british newspaper the times rightly observes that as long as african leaders and mbeki refuse to take action against zimbabwe, their own promises of democracy and good governance in exchange for european funds are utterly meaningless. if these countries continue to ignore mugabe, the union may no longer grant them european funds.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with two closely related subjects. the first concerns the rules on maximum driving time and minimum rest periods for professional drivers. the second sets out the rules for the application of social legislation. i would remind you that the aim of both these proposals is to promote fair competition between carriers throughout the european union and to improve road safety and working conditions for the professional drivers concerned. european social harmonization in road transport is under way. our discussion today is of course linked to the european legislation on working time for road haulage workers which came into force on 23 march. this new legislation ensures that drivers operating in a country other than their own must comply with a minimum european standard. the legislation now needs to be completed. the application of harmonised social rules is essential both for the internal market and road safety and to guarantee a minimum of social rights for workers in the sector. despite joint efforts, an agreement between the european parliament and the council has not yet been reached at this stage. i can assure you that the commission is and will remain ready to play its role as facilitator and mediator between the two institutions. i would like to return to the subject itself and remind you that the rules currently in force have been in place for 20 years. of course, during this period we have seen the full opening up of the road transport sector to competition in the community, not only for international operations but also for cabotage. the european union has also experienced several waves of enlargement, the most recent of which was a year ago, and within the union, road transport has become the dominant mode of transport, with fierce competition leading operators to be tempted to ignore basic social rules in order to maintain profit levels. in a context where europe is sometimes criticised for its lack of action in the social field, we must do everything, ladies and gentlemen, to reach a conclusion on such a sensitive issue for workers in the sector. in this context, i would like to remind you of the three main objectives of the commission when it formulated its proposal on driving and rest periods for professional drivers. it is in the light of the above that i will state the commission's position on the main elements of your report, mr markov, and i want to welcome the analysis and relevance of the report you have presented. the first objective is to simplify the rules. if we try to reintroduce special provisions or a multitude of derogations and exemptions, we will make the rules very complex, but, moreover, they will be inapplicable. that is why we cannot, and i cannot personally accept all the amendments which would make this text too complex and therefore difficult to implement. we must give the citizens a clear, simple and accessible picture of europe. a simple example is the amendment to introduce the possibility of dividing the daily rest into four separate parts. quite apart from any doubts about the benefits to road safety, this would encourage the controllers to look only for the main element of daily rest and to ignore the others. so simplify it. secondly, to make the rules clearer for operators, drivers and inspectors. for example, the proposal to include all commercial vehicles below 3.5 tonnes. two questions: must every vehicle used for commercial purposes be covered by these rules? are we going to see scooters delivering pizzas and pickup trucks with tachographs? is that technically possible? i can see and understand parliament's concern to avoid the abuse of the 3.5 tonne threshold. but be careful, the rules must be relatively clear, always with a view to their proper application. finally, the rules need to be updated in the light of the development of the road transport sector. i will give two examples: the approval of the maximum speed of agricultural and forestry tractors is now harmonized at european level. this harmonization has been taken into account by your parliament. and the commission will support this amendment. on the other hand, we must recognize that public services such as postal services or gas and electricity distribution services have evolved considerably. i see no reason to exclude them. so those are the three points. i now come to the dates of the introduction of the digital tachograph. for the commission, the current deadlines of 5 may 2005 for the card issued by the member states and 5 august 2005 for the requirement to equip new vehicles with a digital tachograph should be maintained. there are no objective reasons for a further delay. the manufacturers of tachographs and automobiles have already invested heavily. all member states have committed themselves to the council's common position by the scheduled dates and are already setting up training for inspectors. if we were to postpone the deadlines any further, we would put both the member states and the industry in the most complete uncertainty. i must therefore now argue for the dates to be retained, which is in line with the need to increase legal certainty. i now come to the control. the commission aims to increase the quality and quantity of the control efforts to be provided by the member states. it has sought to develop a comprehensive system of verification of all community social legislation for the road transport sector, including the monitoring of working time. it has encouraged the promotion of coordination between control bodies, both within and between member states. it wanted to develop a harmonised approach to sanctions and a common definition of serious infringements. it is in the light of these objectives that i shall state the commission's position on the european parliament's amendments which, on the whole, seem to me to meet the commission's concerns. first, the monitoring of the application of the rules on working time. the commission can only support the reintroduction of this element in the text. the fact that you have opted for a control-based approach in business seems to me to be a logical and effective approach. secondly, the common definition of several serious offences. yes, the commission welcomes the reintroduction of this provision in the text by parliament, as it considers that a harmonised approach to control requires a common definition of what constitutes a serious infringement. thirdly, a national body to be appointed to coordinate controls. this body will be responsible for coordinating controls by the member states, both at national and international level. this provision as proposed by your parliament is clearly supported by the commission. such a body would not dictate but would reconcile the views of the various national supervisory bodies. this would be an improvement on the council's common position, which provides for a national control strategy and the designation of a national focal point for contact with other member states. then we come to the scheduled deadlines for the incremental increase in the number of checks: from 1% of days to 3% of days. while recognising the objective pursued by parliament and admitting that the council's approach lacks ambition, the commission appeals for realism and prefers to ensure that all member states are in a position to respect the number and quality of checks required by the directive. you see, since i took office i have always been concerned about the proper implementation of what we decide and it is in this spirit that we say to ourselves that perhaps it is better to be progressive, but at least we have the certainty that we will achieve our goal. finally, the traffic controls. the commission warns that the statistics to be collected from drivers by inspectors are too restrictive. this constraint could be counterproductive because it would be difficult to carry out roadside checks. that is what i wanted to add to the rapporteur's report. my services will of course forward the detailed position of the commission on each proposed amendment (commission position on parliament's amendments: see annex). i shall now listen carefully to the debate and remain at the disposal of parliament for any questions that may arise. this is an important matter and i thank all the members who are here for their willingness to contribute to this important task.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank mr markov on behalf of the epp for his cooperation and also for the open ear he has shown in the discussions, which are certainly not always easy, and in the many amendments. the aim was clear to us throughout the committee on transport and tourism: proper regulation should improve road safety while also taking into account the quality of life of drivers. the system should, however, remain controllable and also be realistic. there may have been some details on which there was disagreement. the fundamental question has also been raised as to whether a new directive is even necessary. one thing is clear: it is not possible for the market shares of those transport companies which do not comply with the minimum standards to increase. i think that was the unanimous tenor of all the groups in this house. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the directive may be as good as it is, but on paper it will do little to save lives. the council is therefore calling for regular checks and for the penalties to be harmonized. if you can pick a little penal paradise among the various countries, you can imagine what that leads to. we are very familiar with this, especially in my area - the border region. we were faced with over 240 modifications. there's about 60 left, plus 16 more to go. the committee on transport and tourism has done a good job. i do not want to go into all the amendments, but i would like to emphasize one point: with our proposal for the digital tachograph, we wanted to create legal certainty at the date proposed here, which in our view is a little more stable than what might otherwise happen: namely that we might adopt a directive in september, october or november which should have been applied in august of the same year. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 2007-2013 is therefore a step in the right direction. that is why we must be able to discuss this date and to set a clear sign. the question of the three and a half tonnes was a topic. we believe it is about safety. but we also do not want to impede mobility in cities with the sprinters, as they are called in the vernacular. so some feel that it would be possible to work evenly under three and a half tons. moreover, it would not distort competition. flexibility was also one of our objectives, and if you look at today's proposal for daily rest breaks and also for rest arrangements, i think that is more controllable than what the council has proposed. it's a very simple number: four and a half hours of driving, three quarters of an hour of rest, which can be used at will. so that's just an example. we have tried to achieve these objectives. we have tried to be flexible and we hope that the council and the commission will also see the signs of parliament in these amendments.
president. - i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr navarro, for his excellent work and the good cooperation which has been established. the report on coastal shipping is an important report because it is a new step in our search for ways of keeping freight off the road and promoting alternative and more environmentally friendly modes of transport. if we do nothing, our roads will be muddy. short haul can play a positive and important role in an intermodal transport system if accompanying measures are taken at different levels. i believe that we should not simply build up coastal shipping everywhere in a wild way, but that we should analyse in depth which routes should be built, especially for the motorways of the sea, in order to achieve the greatest possible positive impact. a strategic environmental impact assessment of the planned routes is necessary as new port developments will occur as well as new transport flows in the hinterland. we must therefore avoid creating new or even larger congestion points. the last element is that we must also make progress on the issue of emissions at the same time. it is not that ships are totally pollution-free. in this respect, strict standards have already been imposed on road transport, but we are lagging behind in the case of marine fuels. i am therefore pleased that the hassi report, which aims to reduce significantly the sulphur content of marine fuels, especially in the most sensitive areas, is also voted on this week.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, i would first like to congratulate the progress made in 2003 in the implementation of the budget in the area of freedom, security and justice, even though the level of payment implementation remained far too low. i would like to note, however, the observations made by the court of auditors on the use of the european refugee fund. more generally, i would like to stress that the development of shared management in budgetary matters between the commission and the member states will require serious and additional efforts on the part of the latter. i agree with our rapporteur, mr wynn, in paragraph 104 of his report, that we must deplore the failure of some member states to control and manage the taxpayers' money for which they are responsible and that we must point out the hypocrisy of some member states who accuse the commission of not monitoring the expenditure for which they are themselves responsible.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the discharge for the european parliament. other members of the group will be dealing with the other reports. let's say it again here: the budget of parliament is in order. the efforts of our administration, under the leadership of secretary-general priestley, to manage parliament's budget correctly are enormous and deserve our appreciation. i would like to mention two points of difficulty, namely the three places of work and the voluntary pension fund. the treaty on european union obliges us to work in three areas: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the that is what we are doing, and it is already costing the taxpayer more than 200 million euros a year. it's not just costing us money, it's costing us time, and that's no longer something we can defend against our constituents. in previous discharge procedures we have asked the convention to remove this article from the constitution. it didn't work. so let us say again, as a new parliament, that we are not happy with this situation and that we will not accept it any longer. i would also like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the paragraphs on the voluntary pension fund in the european parliament's discharge report. it is clear that there is uncertainty about the responsibility of parliament and the participants in that voluntary pension fund. a little over a decade ago, parliament closed a gap of 9 million euros. it was agreed that a clear distinction would be made between this voluntary pension fund and the official bodies of the european parliament. yet, a twilight zone has always existed. with that pension fund, my dear colleagues, it's gone from bad to worse. there is already a deficit of 42 million euros. so let us also say clearly and unequivocally that the european budget, the budget of parliament, must under no circumstances be used to fill that gap. this would be unethical, this would be irresponsible. taxpayers' money cannot be used to plug a €42 million deficit in a voluntary pension fund. i thank you for your attention and i hope that we can make sure that this is settled during the vote.
mr president, it goes without saying that no sensible person can object to the fact that everything is being done to reduce poverty and hunger in the world by 2015 in a structural and real way. to do so, we must look a little further than the unilateral measures in this report. we must admit that the massive aid given to africa over the last 30 years has, after all, done very little to help the continent. the favourable infrastructure and trade starting position of black africa in the 1960s, for example, has been destroyed by widespread corruption, ethnic conflicts and the destructive ideological sharpness of the ruling elites. how, for example, has zimbabwe in a few decades been transformed from the granary and storehouse of all southern africa into a country of terrible hunger? so let us have the courage to name the two main obstacles to the sustainable development of poor countries, and those are corruption and bad governance. it's not our fault!
i shall confine myself to one aspect of this in a short intervention. i think it is an important aspect, namely the role of international trade, of fair trade in pursuing the millennium development goals. i think that no one has more to gain from boosting world trade than the third world. if sub-saharan africa could increase its share of world trade by 1%, it would have 60 billion more in export earnings. after everything but arms, the european union, as the world's largest trading bloc, should be able to send a new signal of its willingness by setting a date for the abolition of all export subsidies for agricultural products. it is no longer acceptable that every cow gets two dollars a day, while half the world's population has to survive on less. the abolition of these unfair agricultural subsidies would in any case strengthen the credibility of eu policy in this area.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by paying tribute to the rapporteurs, mr van orden and mr moscovici, but also to those of our colleagues who have over the past few years accompanied the efforts of both bulgaria and romania. i am thinking in particular of my colleague, baroness nicholson, who has done so with unremitting dedication to romania. my group will be voting overwhelmingly in favour of the accession treaty with romania, and i shall speak specifically about that. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities is a very good one. we fully support these efforts. i would also like to express our appreciation for the assurance we received from the commission and the council that parliament will continue to be involved in the follow-up of the progress that still needs to be made. in recent years, moreover, parliament, the commission and the council, either in the person of their shadow rapporteurs or in the person of their coordinators, have worked together in an exemplary way to remove our greatest doubts. as you know, these doubts are mainly related to the extremely long period of 20 months which will elapse between the signing on 25 april and the actual accession on 1 january 2007. we have received assurances that we as an institution will be involved in any possible activation of the safeguard clause, and we reiterate our full support for romania. the country now has all the means to ensure that this clause is not invoked. that is certainly a very dear wish for me. our support and sympathy will go with the country in any case.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. five years after the lisbon european council in 2000, we are unfortunately still far from the objectives set for the european union economy at that time. growth has fallen well short of forecasts. the number of new jobs created was not sufficient to achieve the employment targets. the barroso commission has made growth and employment a priority. two months ago we presented our proposal for a revision of the lisbon strategy. the proposal had the overwhelming support of this parliament. the key elements of the review are the clear definition of priorities and the establishment of a partnership between the community and the member states for the implementation of the measures envisaged. three weeks ago the european council approved the commission's proposals. this opens the way for the implementation of our objectives. what we're presenting to you today is a first step in that implementation strategy. the proposal for integrated guidelines is a concrete step towards simplifying, increasing transparency and improving the policy feasibility of the new lisbon strategy. the economic and employment guidelines have been consolidated in a single text. they are a roadmap to more growth and jobs and lay the foundation for member states' national lisbon programmes. that 's the crucial point . we are creating a community framework within which the member states are then to find tailor-made national solutions to the problems we have defined together. a first set of guidelines calls on member states to maintain a stability-oriented macroeconomic policy. in order to ensure long-term sound public finances in almost all member states in the face of an ageing population, we must ensure budgetary discipline. we need to ensure that public spending is focused on areas that contribute to long-term growth, in particular in education, science and research. the second package of guidelines is concerned with structural reforms. they are designed to facilitate the transition to a more knowledge-intensive economy and to increase europe's attractiveness to investors and workers. i would like to draw up some particularly important structural guidelines. firstly, the internal market. we need a well-functioning internal market. this will require the removal of remaining barriers to market access and the reinforcement of competition policy. secondly, better regulation. the commission has also been active in the field of environmental protection since the early 1990s. legislation imposes costs on businesses. these costs can be particularly high for small businesses. better regulation is therefore an important building block for creating a business-friendly environment and a strong entrepreneurial culture. the third is innovation. our future in europe lies in the knowledge-intensive and innovative sectors of the economy. this is why both the public sector and the industry itself must invest more in research. the guidelines call on member states to facilitate innovation by promoting technology transfer and the creation of innovation clusters. the adoption of new technologies, such as information technology, should be encouraged. innovation in environmental technologies not only contributes to growth and employment, but also, and more importantly, to sustainable development. the guidelines for structural policy are followed, lastly, by the guidelines for employment policy, which mr špidla will discuss shortly. they aim to create jobs, increase investment in education and training, improve the adaptability of workers and businesses, and modernise social protection systems. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the potential of reforms can only be fully realised if they are implemented as a package whose individual parts complement each other. if all the measures are implemented, growth and employment will benefit considerably. to be able to push forward the necessary reforms, we need a strong, solid partnership based on trust. this cannot and will not be a technocratic process but must be understood as a highly political process which will only succeed if european society as a whole is behind it. the european parliament has a key role to play in this. it is now crucial that we take advantage of the political momentum created by the revision of the lisbon strategy, by the decisions of the european parliament and by the decisions of the brussels spring council. now is the time to use this momentum to take the first steps in implementation. the commission would very much welcome the european parliament's early and special attention to the guidelines presented today.
member of the commission. mr president, continuing with the remarks just made by the vice-president of the commission, mr verheugen, i would like to refer in particular to the content of the broad economic policy guidelines contained in this document adopted today by the commission. of course, the broad economic policy guidelines, an instrument based on the treaty, in line with the review of the lisbon strategy, have growth and jobs as their priority: more growth and more jobs in europe. last week i presented the spring economic forecasts drawn up by the commission services and, as you know, we believe that there will be a recovery, a revival of economic growth, throughout the year 2005, which will continue throughout 2006, and that employment will be created, but not enough. the growth must be more intensive to create the jobs needed to reduce the unemployment rate to full employment. in this connection, the macroeconomic chapter of these broad economic policy guidelines, which are part of the package adopted by the commission today, reiterates the need to establish economic conditions of stability capable of generating confidence. because consumer and economic confidence is the necessary element for increasing consumer demand, for increasing investment and for increasing domestic demand, and this is the basis which must lead us, in a sustained recovery, to more growth, more employment opportunities and, through them, to greater guarantees to preserve and deepen social cohesion and the sustainability of our model of growth and society. of course, the broad economic policy guidelines for the period 2005-2008 take account, as it should, of the revision of the stability and growth pact, based on the agreement reached by the spring european council, and in this regard recommend avoiding pro-cyclical fiscal policies and maintaining the medium-term objectives of fiscal stability throughout the economic cycle, as well as taking into account the different levels of indebtedness and the different growth potential of each of the countries when defining specifically those medium-term objectives. for the euro area, the specific need of the countries sharing the single currency to achieve these medium-term balanced budgetary objectives is underlined, with those countries being asked to pay particular attention to fiscal discipline and their budgetary situation. as vice-president verheugen has just mentioned, in the microeconomic chapter, the guidelines make special reference to the need to create the right framework to attract more investment to the internal market, to boost innovation and to increase the growth potential of our economies through increased investment, the boosting of innovation, research and development and the better functioning of markets. finally, as it should be, this macroeconomic and microeconomic strategy, which is included in the broad economic policy guidelines, is consistent with the employment guidelines which my colleague, commissioner spidla, will be presenting to you.
member of the commission. this new set of guiding principles for employment policies marks a new beginning for the european employment strategy within the revised lisbon agenda. the integrated guidelines are based on the fact that if the european union is to create more and better jobs, it needs a series of interlinked measures, not only in the labour market but also in the goods and services market and the financial market, which will make europe more attractive and open to innovation. these structural reforms must be underpinned by growth-friendly macroeconomic policies. as regards employment, no significant progress has been made recently, mainly due to slow economic growth in the context of weak demand and global imbalances. after a period of high employment growth in the late 1990s, job creation has stagnated over the past three years. only because of the greater flexibility of the labour market has the employment rate not fallen as much as it did ten years ago. at the same time, labour productivity growth has slowed, progress in improving the quality of work is limited and the economic slowdown has exacerbated the current social inclusion problems, especially for young people. long-term unemployment has started to rise again after several years of decline. so the problems we face are significant. on the one hand, europe faces an accelerated pace of economic restructuring in the context of increased economic integration both within the enlarged union and on a global scale. if europe is to succeed, it must be better able to anticipate, trigger and manage economic change. on the other hand, europe must address the problems of an ageing population. demographic change requires both the modernisation of our social protection systems and the transformation of our labour market to cope with an ageing and, soon, shrinking workforce. to preserve its prosperity, europe must accelerate both employment and productivity growth. this requires a new approach to life-cycle work and a renewed commitment to developing europe's human capital. the new set of guidelines for employment policy responds to these challenges and guides the employment policies of the member states, confirming the european objectives of full employment, higher quality and productivity of work and greater social and territorial cohesion. it highlights a number of key actions under three priorities: first, to bring more people into and keep them in employment; second, to increase the adaptability of workers and enterprises; and third, to increase investment in human capital. in implementing these guiding principles, member states must also respond to the employment recommendations addressed to them directly and make commitments reflecting the ambition and objectives of the european union. at the same time, it is essential that the open method of coordination on social inclusion and social protection, as set out in the social agenda, be fully pursued and that the relevant parts of this strategy be included in the national lisbon programmes. the european social fund may be directly involved by supporting measures at member state and regional level. the preparation of the national programmes this autumn must be an opportunity to bring together all the actors involved in the development and implementation of employment policy. in this respect, the experience of the european employment strategy has been very positive. by involving all stakeholders, member states will contribute to greater transparency, policy-making and ensure the legitimacy and effectiveness of policy measures. this is a key element of the new governance for growth and jobs brought about by the new lisbon strategy. the european parliament will play and is already playing a key role in this process, not least by giving its opinion on the guiding principles of the employment policy proposed by the commission. ladies and gentlemen, these new principles of employment policy, which are part of the integrated document that we are presenting on behalf of the commission, are, in my view, the fulfilment of that fundamental principle, the new focus of the strategy, i.e. growth and employment.
i thank the commissioners for this information. i hope that the integration of the guidelines will also lead to greater coherence. but, commissioners, lisbon was about three different aspects. there was also a social cohesion aspect, and social cohesion is more than just employment, as far as i know. it was also about reducing poverty substantially and ensuring decent pensions. how can we prevent a debate on pensions from soon becoming a debate on the financiability of pensions, since the whole social aspect has not been included here? that's my first question. my second question concerns the procedure. i have seen that the economic and financial affairs council will deal only with the economic package and the social affairs council with the employment guidelines. i think this is not a good example of integration. why do the two councils not make their statements on the whole package? finally, commissioners, i would also like to know exactly how you see the role of the european parliament. does this mean that we now have a formal right to give our opinion, including on the economic guidelines?
member of the commission. the letter in which the commission informed the united kingdom of the reasons why it initiated the procedure under article 88(2) of the ec treaty with regard to the setting-up of the nuclear decommissioning agency was published in the official journal of the european union of 21 december 2004. that document includes a detailed estimate of the amount of state aid potentially involved for each of the activities that will be undertaken by the agency. depending on the mode of computation and on market hypothesis, the total sum of public funds involved may vary from gbp 0 to gbp 8 billion. the commission shares the view of the honourable member that all electricity generation costs should, in principle, be internalised. exceptions to this principle may be justified, however, where they can be shown to contribute significantly in other ways to the common good. that is the case, for instance, for renewables. the commission's inquiry in the case of the nuclear decommissioning agency aims precisely to determine whether or not specific characteristics of the case may justify a partial exception to the principle of internalisation of costs.
mrs kroes, i have noted your answer. i understand that you do indeed share the view that state aid to nuclear power stations should be integrated into the total price of energy, of electricity. to my knowledge, this has not happened to date. i would like to ask you what measures you will take in the coming years during your mandate to ensure that we know what state aid is given to nuclear power stations and to what extent that state aid is internalised in the cost price, so that the consumer has a clear idea of the real price of nuclear energy.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to express my thanks for the support of the commission’s proposal. we will continue the debate at our meeting on 21 april. i am sure that all the questions that have been presented here can be elaborated upon. the proposal is now with the council. the commission is not, at this stage, able to put any proposal on the table. if, during the negotiation process in the council, there is a possibility of creating a mechanism for funds of a specific nature then the commission will certainly contribute. on the important issue of housing, we cannot – and i believe we will not be able to – finance construction. however we will be able to contribute to many aspects of the renovation and reconstruction of housing in new and old member states that have needs of this kind. i will elaborate on this on 21 april, or privately with mr piotrowski so as not to detain you here. statistical effect will apply to the highlands and islands so it is ok. still with regard to statistical effect, there is not strong support in the council for the generosity we have proposed, which is also being criticised as being insufficiently generous! in the council there are ideas of making it less generous. the question remains open. i thank you for your patience and support.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, it is probably not presumptuous to say today that tomorrow at 1 p.m. we will have adopted the final version of this directive on eco-design for energy-consuming products. the european union will thus have a new tool, a source of innovation and environmental protection, because this eco-design applied to household products or construction is the future. more than 80% of environmental pollution occurs during the manufacturing phase of the product. it is therefore essential to act at the source, where the technical possibilities for improvement are greatest. that is why parliament has welcomed this commission proposal from the outset, and for at least two reasons. firstly, the very broad scope of the framework directive. it covers a wide range of products responsible for about 40% of co2 emissions into the atmosphere. from refrigerators to boilers to computers to light fixtures to lawn mower motors and so on. all energy sources are covered and all sectors concerned. the text is also flexible, with the aim of encouraging this approach to eco-design within companies by means of voluntary agreements, but also by means of legislation where self-regulation is not possible or has failed. we therefore share the concern, commissioner, to promote eco-design with a specific aim: to improve the ecological quality of products while maintaining their quality of use. there is no point in having a quieter washing machine if it is going to consume twice as much electricity or water, for example. this is why this directive is rightly based on the integrated approach, which is to take into account the cradle-to-grave product, since at some stage in this life cycle any product generates impacts on the environment. this multi-criteria and multi-stage environmental assessment should not, however, prevent us, the legislators, from setting one or more priorities, and we have of course done so, considering that energy efficiency constitutes a priority thematic action in the fight against climate change. we are making a vital contribution to the efforts being made to meet the kyoto target. the commission estimates that we could achieve a reduction of almost 200 million tonnes of co2 per year by 2010 thanks to this directive. this transition now allows me to come to the agreement reached last monday after two marathon meetings with the luxembourg presidency, of course in full cooperation with your services. this agreement has two major advantages, the first - not negligible for the portfolios of our fellow citizens - is to avoid a costly conciliation. the second, more fundamental, is the existence of a balanced compromise which improves the council's common position on essential points. first, with regard to energy efficiency, it is envisaged that within the next 24 months, and even before the first work plan is drawn up, the commission, after consulting the consultative forum, will adopt implementing measures taking into account the product categories with the highest potential for co2 reduction, with priority for the seven product categories listed in this european plan to combat climate change. market surveillance is also a priority. since this directive is intended to extend the ce marking to energy-consuming products which comply with ecodesign requirements, this product control must be effective throughout the union. the agreement now includes a clear definition of the producer and a very clear article on the responsibilities of the importer. it also provides for control of all the commercial actors in the chain, who must be able to prove by a declaration of conformity that any product sold in europe meets the ambitious energy efficiency criteria we want to put in place. all these measures, of course, have one objective: to improve the market and protect the consumer. it is now up to the member states to act quickly and to act well in order to prosecute bad boys, free riders and defend european industry. a very brief word on comitology: i welcome the fact that the council has taken up our idea, expressed in article 14, of creating a consultative forum with powers strengthened by this draft recommendation. this will allow industry and ngos to monitor closely the implementation of implementing measures when they are needed. the second point is also to provide information to consumers and smes, two essential links in the economic chain which play a crucial role in the distribution of these eco-friendly products on the market, to inform consumers about the environmental performance of products, and to help smes financially and technically to manufacture these products which must be more eco-friendly. one last thing, mr piebalgs, before i conclude, the integration of this product life cycle approach into the business of companies is only in its infancy. so we think it will take more than one eco-design gentleman in your department to transform this essay, and we have written to you to do so. i would like to conclude, madam president, by thanking the council, and the luxembourg presidency in particular - and i think this is important. i also thank the commission for its very wise arbitration and all my fictitious rapporteurs, whose collaboration has been very valuable throughout these eighteen months of procedure, who have been able to maintain the unity of parliament to achieve this agreement, which puts on an equal footing the three pillars of sustainable development, environmental, economic and social.
it is an undeniable fact, mr president, that the recent european council was actually dominated by an external factor, namely the referendums on the european constitution which are on the agenda in various european countries. it is in the context of these consultations that we must see the decision to review the so-called services directive. it is very doubtful, moreover, whether the bulkestein directive will be revised or amended once the referenda are over. it is a fact that european decision-making is almost systematically carried out over the heads of the citizens and that in the past, more than once, old-fashioned concepts such as truth and democracy have been used without any justification. as regards the bulkstone directive, we must say that the ambiguity is a trump card. even specialists in european law differ fundamentally as to how that case can or will actually be settled in reality. it is a fact that the very broad definition of the concept of service, coupled with the principle of the country of origin, leads to a fundamental undermining of the powers of the states, and in some cases of the länder. the proposal also has undeniable implications for the powers of the states in the fields of social security, health care and education - all areas of competence in which, in my humble opinion, the principle of subsidiarity should be strictly respected. according to mr bolkestein, the service providers are subject only to the rules of the country of origin. i am not sure how such a regulation can avoid distortions of competition and even social dumping, and i wonder whether it has really served the european consumer. i am also very sceptical about the hundreds of thousands of new jobs that this directive is supposed to create in europe. i am still waiting - and everyone is waiting with me - for the millions of jobs promised to us by the same economists when the euro was introduced. i repeat, i have no confidence in the council's promise to amend the bulkestein directive cautiously. i have no confidence in the sudden conversion to the principle of 'own people first' by so many left-wing politicians who are afraid of the outcome of the referendums on the european constitution. as in the case of turkey, the european union's policy is often based on deception and outright lies, and i fear that we are seeing that again today with the bulkstone directive.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, it is astonishing how the approach of elections can sometimes change the minds of politicians and even lead them to abandon their own principles. i am not without some sadness when i look at the intriguing soap opera that is being played in europe in connection with the bolkenstein directive. until 1 may 2004, we did not hear anyone whining about the liberalisation of services, because the dutch commissioner's plans fit the european logic that service providers should also be able to operate freely in the eu. but to be on president chirac's side and not to let him suffer a humiliating defeat in the constitutional referendum on 29 may, it is now being said that the directive will be amended, if not completely rewritten, even though the socialists pascal lamy and busquin supported it at the time. the directive is therefore being suspended for the time being, in order to avoid any further advantages for the french 'no'. the left in europe is discovering that social dumping is threatening the jobs of its own people. the left is rediscovering the importance of defending national and sovereign interests. the french left, once again faithful to the traditions of the pre-war popular front, is rediscovering the reviled 'own-people-first' principle and rejecting the country-of-origin principle of the directive. whether that hypocrisy will be enough to prevent a crushing 'no' victory on 29 may is, of course, another question. voters are not stupid, contrary to what the high-ranking officials in the commission seem to think. we have a similar example in germany, where today the herald tribune reports that the social democratic chancellor schröder, afraid of the elections in north rhine-westphalia next month, wants to impose strict measures to prevent cheap labour from eastern europe from taking german jobs. who would have thought that from a former internationalist marxist? we can only congratulate him.
every generation has its own challenges. in the 1980s we learned to work on competitiveness and in the 1990s we worked on the restructuring of public finances. in the face of increasingly aggressive global competition, an ever-changing world and an ageing population, the challenge is to ensure that our social model is secure, which presupposes, first and foremost, more economic growth. it is now widely recognised that it is not enough to meet these challenges with declarations and unfulfilled promises. people are disappointed, they want action, they want results. after the european summit we can say that there is a kind of interinstitutional agreement and commitment to the revival of lisbon, and therefore the conclusions of the summit are a hopeful new beginning and the presidency deserves congratulations. let us explain it to the people in the same way, ladies and gentlemen, and as the president-in-office of the council has suggested, in their own language. we are of course counting on the new regulations on the stability pact to convince us of the message that the president-in-office of the council has brought to us here, and to ensure that we have clear criteria and sufficient enforceability. we are also pleased that the conclusions emphasize the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises and we hope that they will not be left to mere words. as regards the services directive, we must note that although a major communication battle has been lost, the war has not been lost as a result. we will do everything possible, as co-legislators, to make the free movement of services possible and we will ensure that this is done in a way that is consistent with our generation's mission, which is to safeguard our social model with its three dimensions. mr president, yesterday the steering committee of parliament's lisbon strategy agreed to continue its work and i can assure the presidency of the council, the commission and also my colleagues in parliament and the colleagues in the national parliaments that we will continue to make positive efforts and that we can count on our cooperation to achieve the objectives.
as chairman of the delegation for relations with the people's republic of china in this parliament, i should like to say something to the president of the council about the lifting of the arms embargo. you know that in this parliament a large majority is against it. i note that the council is determined to continue on the course of lifting the embargo. i can even understand china's reasoning in calling for a political gesture and saying that in a strategic partnership such as ours there is no place for this kind of embargo. but if we want to make a political gesture, we must demand a political gesture in return. we're not gonna get that for a while. on the contrary, the anti-separation law passed in china last month is the wrong signal. a delegation from the chinese people's congress will be in parliament later this month to explain exactly what was intended. i'll listen to that carefully. i also think we should ask for a gesture in relation to individual human rights, because there has been too little progress in china recently. so, mr president-in-office, if the council wants to make a political gesture, demand gestures from the chinese government. i hope that you will adopt this line, which is supported by a large majority in parliament, in the council.
i have voted with my colleagues from the flemish party against the reports on the accession of bulgaria and romania, but i want to make it clear that we do consider bulgaria and romania to be european countries which have their full place in our european cultural community and to whom we also owe a kind of debt of honour because of their decades of suffering under the communist dictatorship. we are therefore convinced that these two countries, bulgaria and romania, will be welcomed into our political community in the foreseeable future, unlike, for example, turkey. but our friendship for romania and our sympathy for romania and bulgaria must not lead to the signing of a blank cheque. we must dare to say - and this explains our voting behaviour - that in many areas, including political and economic, romania and bulgaria are unfortunately not yet ready for full membership.
the common foreign and security policy, mr president, has many aspects and many subsidiary aspects and it is of course impossible to be exhaustive in this short time. two things, though. i would first and foremost like to point out a gap in the list of priorities and that is the support for europeans or people of european origin in other parts of the world. i am talking first of all about southern africa, not just south africa itself but zimbabwe as well. it is high time that the european union took strong action to put an end to attacks on farms and the systematic expropriation of european-run farms. such action would be in the interests of the entire population there. i am referring, for example, to zimbabwe, the country once called the granary of africa, which is now suffering from famine, partly and mainly because of the mismanagement of dictator mugabe. another problem that deserves more attention is nuclear disarmament. the report emphasizes compliance with the non-proliferation treaty but ignores the huge security risk posed by poorly guarded or half-abandoned nuclear facilities in former soviet states and a number of other countries, and the abuse that can be made of them by terrorist organizations such as al-qaeda. we must urgently sit down with the countries and international organizations concerned and ensure that the necessary resources are made available to defuse this ticking time bomb.
first of all, i would like to congratulate our colleague elmar brok on his excellent report, which offers a coherent, forward-looking and realistic vision of the common foreign and security policy. too often, ladies and gentlemen, we forget how young this policy really is. i remember very vividly that 20 years ago the words security, foreign policy and, last of all, defence policy were not even allowed to be mentioned in european texts or in the programmes of european political parties. ten years ago there was an embryo of a common foreign and security policy, but it was carefully encapsulated in a separate, almost exclusive intergovernmental pillar. today we have a vision and a strategy of our own - still in the making - but whose originality cannot be denied. the originality of this policy lies in the fact that we want to take care of the civil, diplomatic and military aspects of this policy. i would like to stress that the constitutional treaty contains some very important advances in this area and that this is one of the main reasons why the constitutional treaty deserves to be ratified. the annual report calls for the european parliament and national parliaments to be more closely involved in the preparation and implementation of the common foreign and security policy and for this involvement not to be limited to post-factual discussions. the quarterly exchange of views with the high representative and the commissioner for external relations, in which representatives of the national parliaments will be able to take part, provides an excellent opportunity for this. that is one aspect of the proposals which we very much welcome.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, my group has decided to join this oral question to complete it. the question put by my colleague mr ford concerns, among other things, compatibility with wto rules. i would like to return to a question concerning the european union and the situation within its borders. in the previous parliamentary term, the ecofin council agreed on the identification of some 60 national tax measures within the european union which were considered to be harmful to competition in the sense of the work carried out in particular within the oecd. the provisions of what was called the primarolo code - named after the official who chaired the working group - contained both standstill clauses and rollback clauses, that is to say, the gradual dismantling of the national provisions thus identified by common agreement within the ecofin council. i note that there is not much talk in parliament or in the media about the state of the dismantling process and i would like to know what the commission's opinion is on this process. i am well aware that this is a matter which is basically a matter for the member states and that this is an agreement between the member states within the ecofin council. however, competition policy is an exclusive competence of the union and the commission has a very important role to play in this respect. in this respect, therefore, i believe that it should have an incentive and monitoring role, or at least an alert and information role, in the verification of the commitments made within the ecofin council. i will complete this question by saying to you - and you know as well as i do - that we are very far from the harmonization of corporate taxation and the tax base within the union, which has been the subject of debate in the prodi commission, based on the work of the prodi commission on a common minimum corporate tax rate within the union. this is a development which my group considers desirable. the decisions which were taken in the ecofin council are therefore a minimum minimum for us and i would really like the commission to be able to comment on this process tonight and in the coming months. i think that the problems we are facing in a number of countries with the draft european constitution are unfortunately not helping us and that there is a legitimate fear that harmful competition will continue and increase within the european union. that is why i think it would be a very important political task to ensure that at least the commitments made in the ecofin council are respected and that the commission plays a role, as does parliament, in the development of this process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no one in this chamber will disagree that the protection of cultural diversity and artistic expression in the eu, as well as in the rest of the world, deserves our full attention. we should all regret that these issues are not discussed more in this parliament. but, as with all social issues, in this debate too, ideology often risks taking precedence over genuine concern for that diversity. we have seen too often that vague and general terms such as cultural diversity are misinterpreted and used as euphemisms by some, for example in the debate on the place of islam in our western society, to refer to the necessary separation of church and state or the equality of men and women. it's just an example. a venerable objective such as cultural diversity can serve less noble purposes when cultural relativists interpret it differently. let us therefore define clearly what we are talking about, who the interlocutors are and above all let us ensure that the protection of cultural diversity does not lead to an ideologically inspired and top-down system of norms. artistic freedom is a thing of the past.
the human rights report 2004 has become a fair and balanced document and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his efforts. however, there was a fear at the outset that this report would show the same lack of consistency and coherence as the human rights policy of the council and the member states, which very often demand sanctions against poor countries in the south but turn a blind eye to gross human rights violations in countries of greater economic interest. it would have been unacceptable if parliament had accepted that human rights were subordinated to economic or commercial interests. however, thanks to the openness and the willingness to listen of the rapporteur, the report as it is now presented does not avoid the delicate points. all problems are addressed, regardless of the size or economic importance of the countries concerned. i think it is high time that the council and the member states followed the same course, otherwise the european union risks losing its credibility as a protector and defender of human rights worldwide. this was demonstrated recently at the 61st session of the un commission on human rights in geneva, where no resolutions were tabled on china, russia or iran. i believe there is a clear need for better coordination, more information flow and less ambivalence. i am glad that the report has seen positive developments, also in a number of developing countries and particularly in african countries, despite the major political and economic problems that the black continent still faces. the successful reconciliation process in rwanda and burundi and in other countries shows that progress is indeed possible. africa is at a turning point and the european union must continue to support the fragile, frail successes on the continent. the coveney report rightly calls for closer cooperation with the international criminal court in the fight against impunity. there can be no democracy and no reconciliation without justice. however, many third world countries are under enormous pressure from the united states to undermine the proper functioning of the icc. if the union and its member states really want the icc, then economic and commercial compensation must be given to those countries which do not want to bow to the threats of the united states by all means possible. the court has already opened investigations into the situation in the congo and also in northern uganda where the population continues to groan under the terror of the lord's resistance army. villages are being slaughtered and burned to the ground. children are abducted and used as soldiers or sex slaves. however, it would require a minimal, limited military effort to eliminate the lra rebels once and for all and to end the worst human rights violation in the world. unfortunately for the people who have to endure the atrocities on a daily basis, northern uganda has no oil, coltan or other raw materials that could interest the international community. the alde group has tabled a limited number of amendments. one of them calls for the continued imposition of an arms embargo on china until the chinese government can prove that new anti-secession laws do not constitute aggression against the people of taiwan. if this amendment is also adopted, my group will support the coveney report with even greater conviction. (applause from the left)
mr president, this parliament has been concerned for years with human rights in the world. you're right to be. if this report then establishes that the competing parties in moldova did not have equal access to the media at the time of the last election and could not count on impartial coverage of the campaign, then i welcome the rapporteur's concern about values such as freedom of expression and an independent press. the report also shows that these values are being seriously trampled on in countries such as algeria and saudi arabia. but, ladies and gentlemen, we do not talk about ropes in the house of the hanged man, because this report is very selective. the rapporteur could have found that belgium, where this parliament is located, suffers from the same ills as moldova, algeria and so many other countries. in my country, the state broadcaster vrt, financed by all flemish taxpayers, has again issued a totalitarian decree to ban the largest party in flanders, the flemish interest, and thus to establish effective censorship. the only opposition party in flanders is formally denied access to public broadcasting and thus silenced in the best tradition of the former gdr. the political bureau of left and far-left editors, a bit like the people's commissar in the soviet union at the time, decides whether my party can be reported on. and if so, only in a negative sense. we have never seen in the eu a greater slavery and venal crawling of journalists paid by the citizens towards the establishment. freedom of expression and the right to pluralistic information have become a laughingstock in belgium, in complete contradiction to the case law of the european court of human rights and the principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. i therefore call on all colleagues to overcome their political differences and sign the written statement we have tabled today to express their concern about the gleichschaltung of the media in my country and to condemn the totalitarian attitude of the belgian radio and television.
mr president, mrs flautre, who has a hard tooth, congratulated the rapporteur. i would not dare not do so and i thank him for it. i would say, however, that the human rights report is an almost impossible exercise. there are at least three dangers. the first is that there is no consistency between the reports on human rights. i would like to say to mr szymański that last year we voted for the right to reproductive health as a human right and i hope that this year we will do the same. the second danger is that of double standards. i am surprised, for example, to have an entire paragraph on morocco which has made constructive efforts in human rights and to find only one line on other countries which are outright violators of human rights. it's the law of the genre. a third danger may be opacity. we have indeed made compromises in certain areas and as they stand, certain paragraphs indicate that we have been less severe than we would have liked in relation to the great powers. i shall stop there, the human rights report is a bit like the law of this kind of exercise. more seriously, i would say that it is clear that my party will not accept certain paragraphs, in particular paragraph 78 which condemns the council for lifting sanctions against cuba. i would like to say to the council that i congratulate it on this opening act. i believe that economic sanctions have never helped democracy and that, on the contrary, they have served to completely hurt and weaken people. so there are certain paragraphs, certain amendments, which my group will be particularly sensitive to and which will determine its vote at the end of the debate. but that has nothing to do with the qualities of the rapporteur, for which i thank him again.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the european constitution, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the debate on the european constitution, but also the european parliament itself. for example, in europa-bericht, a newsletter published in belgium by the european commission, an article appeared in the april issue accusing the opponents of the constitution of being populists who are trying to instill fear in the people. that is a widely held view, consciously or not, held by certain interest groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what about the dutch minister of justice, mr donner, who said in a speech that the rejection of the constitution would have the same consequences as the break-up and civil war in the former yugoslavia? a week later, prime minister balkenende rejected the constitution in connection with auschwitz. on a french public radio station, a doctor claimed that a victory for the no camp would spell disaster for aids research. this is reprehensible, mr president. a rapid reaction force has been set up in the heart of our parliament to act against misinformation by opponents of the constitution. we should also act against misinformation by supporters of the constitution.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking our liberal rapporteur for the quality of his report. we're used to it. it is both ambitious and balanced, and tackles the main problems: practical use and providing accurate and up-to-date information for bathers. i would like to make two observations on the almost thirty years of european bathing water legislation: firstly, we must first of all welcome the very encouraging results already achieved. i would remind you that according to the last report published by the commission in 2003, almost 96% of coastal sites and more than 91% of freshwater sites complied with the quality standards set by the directive. secondly, it is necessary to underline this observation and success and to criticise the lack of latitude left to the member states in the application of this european law. i will take a concrete example which concerns me, excuse me: i find it particularly interesting that the commission, supported by the european judges, has found that a river 10 centimetres deep, where two occasional bathers come to take a dip, justifies the designation of bathing water and therefore requires investment in sanitation of the order of eur 700 000 per area. it is no coincidence that this law has been the subject of no less than fifteen judgments of the court of justice. if we want this new directive to bring about the improvements that everyone wants, and above all to be applied on the ground, we must at all costs get rid of this somewhat restricted legal system. we want a workable law - as has been said, as the rapporteur has said - a directive which also gives us the means to inform and effectively combat all forms of pollution, most of which are becoming less and less accidental, because in the case of bathing water too, the causes of environmental pollution and their impact on the health of citizens in europe and elsewhere must be tackled.
it is not a luxury, mr president, that there should be a directive on port security in the european union. the attacks in new york, washington and madrid have shown that no means of transport is safe from terrorism, and it is only logical that greater attention should be paid to the security of seaports. commissioner barrot has just pointed out that this is simply in keeping with a number of international obligations. it is not just about the threat of terrorism, but also about the fight against illegal immigration, organised crime and the trafficking of drugs and counterfeit products. it is hoped that this will not be a matter of good feelings alone and that effective work will be done on each of these safety aspects. i would like to conclude by expressing my approval of the amendment tabled by the committee on transport and tourism. it is indeed necessary that the financing of the proposed measures does not distort competition and that there are clear guidelines for the financing of the costs by the public authorities on the one hand and the operators on the other.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it would be unacceptable to us, commissioner, to exclude the duty of watch and sleep from working time, because this is the time during which the worker is at the employer's disposal, and, moreover, not counting these hours would have serious consequences not only for the safety and health of workers but also for patients in hospitals and elderly people in nursing homes. i think the cercas report is an excellent solution. attendance services are working time, as the court has ruled, but we at cao do allow for a different calculation for the hours of watch and sleep. i hope that the whole of parliament will support cercas and his fantastic report and i hope, commissioner, that the commission will also change its position.
president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, we all agree that conventional weapons, and in particular light weapons, continue to cause the greatest number of casualties worldwide. they are fairly easily available on the market, at relatively low prices, and they are all too often an obstacle to sustainable development and reconstruction processes. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to examine your own heart. in my own country too, important arms transfers to conflict zones have been set up in the past. commissioner michel is well placed to explain and evaluate this. we can only think of the supply of arms to nepal or the democratic republic of congo, where more than three million civilians have been killed since august 1998. president schmit was talking about cutting off the supply lines for ammunition. that is why the tanzanian project and the construction of a munitions factory there deserve our full attention. this project must be stopped. i would like to emphasize the political request made by my colleagues to the council presidency to ensure that a political commitment is made that there will be effective work on an international convention on the trade in conventional arms. this arms trade treaty must be brought about with the support of the 25 and if possible without delay.
vice-president of the commission. the commission strongly supports the ratification of the constitution and will play an active part in informing european citizens about its content, with the support of the european parliament. the commission is undertaking ten specific communication initiatives. they range from the wide distribution of the text of the constitution for free; the constitution website; training for national and regional journalists; round table discussions with civil society; information actions targeted at universities and schools, such as european spring day, and support for the production of radio and television programmes; to targeting the use of the europe direct call centre; mobilising our networks of multipliers in various policy areas; undertaking detailed opinion poll analyses and focus group research and, last but not least, supporting the information campaigns in the member states. i fully understand the concern of the honourable member that the debate on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe lacks the necessary clarity. precisely because they have been well aware of this risk, the commission, parliament and the heads of state and government decided to get involved in the debate from the very beginning and to implement in good time information campaigns on the constitution which, while respecting the national specificities of each member state, would inform the citizens and encourage them to take part in the debate and the referendums. we must use every communication tool available to allow our citizens to make informed choices based on the content of the constitution. i want the debate to be based on facts rather than the many myths that are circulating.
president, ladies and gentlemen, and commissioner, thank you for your reply. i understand that you are trying to explain to the public what is really important to them, but i am concerned that information is quickly being interpreted as propaganda. if information is taken as propaganda, you can get the opposite effect of what you really intend. i would ask the commissioner what efforts are being made to avoid turning information into propaganda. in other words: to highlight in the information both the positive and the negative aspects of the present draft constitution. i think that both elements must be presented to the citizen so that he can make a correct judgment.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr zappalà, for his draft recommendation, which usefully completes the council common position in some aspects and fully supports the essential objectives of the commission’s proposal. i also wish to thank the shadow rapporteurs, mrs weiler, mrs rühle and mr lambsdorff for their cooperation and constructive attitude in working towards an agreement with the council on this vital piece of single market legislation. as you all know, this directive is an important practical contribution to skills mobility. it covers a large variety of issues of great interest to the professions and also to their clients. a reasonable compromise on the text provides us with a major success story in the field of the internal market. the final result strikes a balance between the right to free movement of fully qualified professionals and the need to protect consumers. in particular, i welcome the maintenance of the five levels of qualification, which have played a central role in the operation of professional recognition at eu level over the last 15 years. this solution ensures the transparency necessary for the application of the system and keeps existing guarantees for migrants. the directive improves conditions of free movement for professionals through simpler and clearer rules, in particular for the temporary provision of cross-border services. i am happy to acknowledge that parliament has played a constructive role in achieving the right degree of flexibility for the provider of a professional service who wishes to exercise his activity elsewhere in the union. in an enlarged europe, more effective systems for managing our legislation have become an absolute necessity. the mechanisms and procedures provided for in the directive update the existing ones and should ensure its efficient implementation in the years to come. in particular, the new regime for the automatic recognition of medical specialities reconciles the need for simplification with the legitimate demands of the profession. for its part, the consultation of professional associations will provide the commission with the technical advice necessary for the proper running of the system. toine manders’ suggestion, in this respect, at last week’s trialogue was particularly welcome. it enables us to ensure a proper and effective consultation of professional organisations and feed in the results of that consultation in the decisions to be taken through comitology. professional associations will thus be closely involved in the implementation of the directive. last, but not least, i appreciate the additions to the common position suggested by parliament, such as those regarding: firstly, the possibility for professional associations to create professional cards; secondly, the possibility of further harmonisation for additional professions in the future; and, thirdly, the anti-abuse clause which will preclude so-called ‘qualifications shopping’. to conclude, i wish to pay tribute to the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for their constructive approach that has enabled an agreement with the council without the need for conciliation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. president. - mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i may be walking into an open door when i say that this report is one of the most important we are going to be dealing with this parliament. i would therefore like to congratulate the commission on the initiative it has taken and our colleague mr zappalà and the shadow rapporteurs from other groups on the work they have done. the fact that the free movement of goods has a concrete positive meaning for many people, mr president, we still have to explain to people in our member states almost every day, and that a good service directive is important, much more so, but that there are still a great many barriers to the mobility of people, students, workers, the self-employed, etc., who want to take their chances across borders, people themselves tell us. it is therefore high time that we consolidate the 15 directives on the recognition of professional qualifications that we have adopted one after another over the years into a coherent legal framework, with five levels, and that this framework should also be easily adaptable. the result presented by the rapporteur today has the full support of the ppe-de group. we cannot go into all the details, but we are satisfied with the content. we are particularly pleased that there is now an agreement with the other institutions, i hope, and that we will be able to close this dossier quickly. our group, mr president, also welcomes the recognition of the specific nature of the profession and the specific nature of the notarial profession, the recognition of the role of professional associations and the fact that we now finally know the content of this important directive and can determine precisely on the basis of this what is left for the other important directive that awaits us, the directive on the market in services.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a forest where the trees are no longer visible. i consider this to be an important step in the field of simplification and an important step forward. the commissioner himself has stressed that this is an honourable compromise, in which we have found a balance between the functioning of the internal market with the highest possible level of free movement of professionals on the one hand, and high-quality training and respect for consumer interests on the other. i believe that we have shown in this debate, commissioner, that the two can be reconciled. an example of this is in article 5 (3) where we have replaced disciplinary rules with rules of conduct. the fact that a host member state can continue to impose national rules in this area is not a protectionist measure at all, but precisely a proof of that balance. i would like to express the wish, as mrs gebhardt did, that we could take the same path for the services directive, where that much-needed balance must also be found.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the united states was the largest donor when it was founded, and today it is the largest debtor. the developing countries were powerless 60 years ago, but today their influence in multilateral negotiations, for example in the world trade organisation, can no longer be ignored. all this to say that the world bank urgently needs drastic reform. as long as the developing countries do not have a real say in the policies and decision-making of the world bank, it will continue to be perceived as a control instrument in the hands of the so-called rich, rather than as an international institution aimed at stability and development, in a spirit of mutual respect and solidarity partnership. the world bank now has an external relations department, which employs over 300 people. the institution considers this department to be one of the most important in order to improve its image, but the question arises whether this cannot be done in another way, namely by involving the developing countries more closely in the workings of the institution, by finally making decision-making in the bank more transparent and by better controlling expenditure. in short, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am one of those who believe that the world bank urgently needs to be re-resourced. no financial re-resourcing, but an internal re-resourcing. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union, and its role in the world is to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world.
in writing. at a time when the constitutional treaty requires the left to say a resounding yes, i consider the amendments to the working time directive that the cercas report has been able to impose to be a victory, given the strong pressure from the right. but this victory cannot hide the social backwardness that persists in the text voted today. in particular, 1) the opt-out is maintained for three years 2) the annualization of working time will no longer be negotiated by the social partners. it is therefore a step back from a crucial issue, that of control of flexibility. 3) periods of "unproductive" time - such as guard duty, etc. - are still counted in working time, but exceptions may make it possible to calculate them in a specific way. the constitutional treaty wants to introduce more social dialogue, but the current directive reduces it. the directive also touches on one of the fundamental achievements of the struggles of the last century: the reduction of working time and the regulation of hours per day. that is why, while welcoming the efforts of cercas and the socialist group to push back the ultra-liberalism which is the hallmark of the directive, i voted for abstention.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the cercas report on the revision of the working time directive. the compromise text adopted cannot be regarded as a step forward for social europe either. we must remain vigilant to preserve the social acquis. the directive is based on flexibility, not on the health and safety of workers. 2) even if the opt-out which allows member states to depart from the provisions on working time is eventually abolished (3 years); this does not prevent member states who so wish from having individual contracts for three years to determine working time, thereby circumventing social guarantees in negotiated agreements. 3) the annualization of working time can also be implemented by legislation. this breaches an exclusive right to social consultation. 4) the ep defines watchtime (attendance service) as working time; however, the inactive part of the shift can be calculated in a 'specific way' (via the cao or a statutory scheme), without any guarantees for the workers concerned. in addition, the division between active and inactive watch periods is likely to spread to other sectors.
president. - it is very important that these days be commemorated as the 60th anniversary of the end of the second world war. it is also good that this occasion should once again emphasize that freedom and democracy are not taken for granted and must be actively defended. the horrors of national socialism are a black page in the history of europe and the speakers before me have rightly pointed out that there is little or nothing to add to that. but it is regrettable that in western europe so little attention is paid to the historical fact that 60 years ago the official start was also given to the surrender of the peoples of eastern europe to the soviet occupation, to dictatorial communist regimes, which in horror and crime were not to submit to the nazi regime. the red army was already outside warsaw in 1944, just waiting for the nazis to crush the uprising. sixty years ago, the west was celebrating and applauding a certain joseph stalin, a tyrant who at that time was already responsible for the deaths of millions of people and who, with the knowledge of the liberated west, would cause millions more victims, inside and outside russia. it is time, after germany, for russia to come to terms with its past. the official version is still that countries like estonia, latvia and lithuania were liberated by the red army. vaira vike-freiberga, the president of latvia, pointed out that 1945 did not bring liberation to the baltic states, on the contrary. i quote: "it meant slavery, it meant occupation, it meant subjugation and it meant stalinist terror". the european leaders who were in moscow a few days ago hardly bothered to address that reality either. and what was liberation for western europeans 60 years ago was a new ordeal for eastern europe, with the difference that the new dictatorships could count on the active support and sympathy of so many western european politicians, media, intellectuals and many others, some of whom were, incidentally, on the payroll of the soviet secret services. perhaps today, 60 years later, it's time to open those jars. perhaps europe can only come to terms with its past when a kind of nuremberg tribunal of communism is held, not to open old wounds but to never forget the facts, for the future of our children and grandchildren. it is shocking to me, ladies and gentlemen, when a european commissioner posts on his website pictures of himself expressing his great admiration for someone like fidel castro. i am shocked when intellectuals and policymakers continue to deny or minimize the rise of islamic extremism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. if there is one lesson to be learned from the horrors of the second world war, it is that totalitarianism must not be allowed a chance, wherever it comes from.
mr president, i would simply like to thank the minister for his extremely clear answer.
president, commissioner, i would first of all like to testify, as elmar brok has already said, as chairman of the convention's working party on external relations. the main concern of this working party was to avoid the emergence of a dual external policy over time, one of the council and one of the commission. the working party welcomed the need for greater coherence and continuity of policy and for the possibility of devoting all the union's resources to joint action in the field of foreign policy. although a majority of the convention members felt that this could best be achieved through the community method, we were realistic enough to know that this is not feasible at the moment. a compromise was therefore worked out between those who advocate an improved status quo and those who advocate communitization. the minister for foreign affairs presides over the council of ministers, sets its agenda and is also its spokesman. it thus guarantees the coherence and continuity of the policy. as vice-president of the commission, he also bridges the gap between the community and its policies. it may also, with the agreement of the commission, use community funds to support its policies. the working group's view was that ideally it would discuss its initiatives with the commission from the outset and have the commission support them from the outset. we had even proposed that in the event of a joint initiative by the foreign minister and the commission, the council should decide by majority. that proved to be too much for most people, but i would say here that the success of the foreign minister and the influence he will be able to exert will depend to a large extent on the way he integrates and cooperates with the commission. from the outset, the working group recognised that the logistical support of the foreign minister was crucial. we have always advocated the transformation of the delegations into a unified external representation in the form of union embassies. the minister must also have a strategic service in brussels, which is made up of officials from the commission and the council, as well as diplomats posted from the member states. although this service will have to work for both the council of ministers and the commission, the working party felt that in the dynamics of things it would be best placed in the commission, even if it should be loyal to the foreign minister and the council of ministers. the creation of a new autonomous administration seems to me to be miles away from what we wanted. we wanted to abolish the pillars, whereas the new service would create a superpillar. i think that the commission's departments should be decommunised, which is also a step in the wrong direction. the commission must defend its position fully and bring this foreign affairs administration into its own services. it must not forget that it must agree and therefore hold the key. we, as a parliament, will express our clear support for these solutions in the brok report and we will support the commission, but it is up to the commission to negotiate.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, which i think gives a very good overview of the current state of negotiations following the geneva wto framework agreement and on the eve of the hong kong conference. it is clear that the success of the doha round is crucial for further liberalisation of world trade. the credibility of the multilateral trading system is at stake after the failure of cancún. the success of hong kong is essential for further economic growth, but will also be a serious test for the legitimacy of the wto. i share the view of commissioner mandelson that the doha round should be seen first and foremost as a development round. trade and development must go hand in hand and greater involvement of developing countries in the framework of fair global trade is an essential part of the fight against hunger and poverty in the world. it is hopeful that last week a compromise was reached on import duties on agricultural products, and that a threatened failure of the doha round was averted. the conversion of linear import duties into common percentage rates based on the value of products is a cautious but nonetheless important step towards a comprehensive agreement on trade in agricultural products. my group, however, remains convinced that in the long run all export subsidies in agriculture must be abolished. it is unacceptable that the current eu agricultural policy costs an average european family an extra 100 euros a month and at the same time makes it difficult for developing countries to get out of poverty. the world bank recently calculated that success in this round of trade could increase global income by €385 billion a year. if africa can increase its share of world trade from 2 to no more than 3%, it will increase its annual income by 70 billion dollars. that's a lot more than it gets in development aid now. that alone is why we cannot afford to fail a second time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to focus on three points which i think are important. first of all: transparency. it has already been mentioned by other colleagues. it is clear that what is being negotiated and what will actually be decided, if the negotiations are brought to a successful conclusion, will have a significant impact on a great many people. it is therefore essential that a democratically elected parliament such as ours is kept continuously and in detail informed of the negotiations and involved in the negotiations. the constitution will give us more scope in this area, but i would urge you, commissioner, to do more in the coming months and years than you are strictly required to do to involve parliament and, by extension, the civil society in the matter. two , you 're not . world trade must also be fair. it must be of benefit to all, but particularly to the developing countries. one of the main objectives must be to eradicate poverty in the world through a new and adapted trade policy. to this end, we must first ensure that these countries receive the necessary technical support during the negotiations to further develop their negotiating capacity and also to build capacity. the result of the negotiations will also have to be what i would call 'development friendly'. that will require political courage and also concessions on our part. i am thinking, for example, of the gradual abolition of our export subsidies, for which i believe a clear timetable should be set. the third and final point concerns the liberalization of trade in services. it is important and it creates great opportunities, but we must define the terrain clearly. there are services which are best not managed by the free market, namely services of general interest. these should be kept out of the negotiations. i believe that this is not just about education and health care, but also about water, for example, which is the source of all life, as i said earlier. unfortunately, there are already examples in some developing countries where privatization of water supplies has had very negative consequences. i hope, commissioner, that you share that view.
president, too little too late, that is how one might describe the recent announcement by commissioner mandelson that the textile safeguard clause, which allows europe to restrict imports until 2008, will be used. a decision that comes a month after the united states has already taken action. the commissioner has repeatedly stated that trade with china should be seen as a challenge rather than a threat. - that's right. i believe that the european textile industry is also prepared to do so, provided that the trade game is played properly on both sides. however, countries like china have widespread unfair trade practices. export subsidies, dumping, direct and indirect state aid, free capital and illegal counterfeiting and piracy. this aggressive trade policy is tearing apart the european textile and clothing industry. and yet, commissioner, this is still a very important industrial sector, with a total turnover of 200 billion euros, realised in 177 000 companies, and after enlargement 2.7 million textile workers, which is 7% of total industrial employment. moreover, not only europe but also a large number of developing countries are in danger of succumbing to china's aggressive export policy. at the end of last year, our parliament called for a more assertive trade policy towards china. the fact that the import figures were alarming could already be deduced from the imported products without quotas. i hope that the measures announced by the commission will not be too late. and above all, that they are only a first step towards protecting our industry in a wto-compliant way against unfair competition, wherever it may come from.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if this continues, some 2,000 jobs are expected to disappear by the end of this year and if you do not intervene, this will continue for years to come. let me quote two figures, commissioner, which i received this morning. figures on the increase of chinese imports in belgium for the last quarter, i.e. january to april 2005. two examples. other, of a thickness of +747%, other example, men's trousers: +2000%, that is to say times 20. however, european and belgian textile and clothing companies have adapted to the new competition. they have specialised in a number of products and are trying to respond to the new threat of being sold out too quickly. unfortunately, commissioner, it is particularly difficult to defend oneself against an opponent who indulges in unfair dumping practices, as has been said many times here this morning, and especially illegal counterfeiting. more and more european textile companies are faced with shameless and illegal counterfeiting by their chinese competitors. i am pleased to hear from you here this morning that you are determined to tackle this disease. the question is how fast you want to go, because as the figures of the past few months show, the situation is acute. you also said this morning in your introduction that you want to analyse the import data further. what exactly do you mean by that? i hope this isn't synonymous with further delay. this debate, mr mandelson, is not intended to incite you to take protectionist measures against china, as far as that could be done, of course. this is a call to make it clear to our chinese friends that dumping and counterfeiting have nothing to do with fair trade practices. it is your task, it is the commission's task, to make this work. the workers and employers of the european textile and clothing industries, mr mandelson, are counting on you. please do not disappoint them any longer.
in writing. i was opposed to a resolution closing this debate and i must say that the lack of substance of our text confirms my apprehensions. so i chose to abstain. the debate was valuable, enlightening, and probably one of the most important we have had in this new parliament, this enlarged house after the reunification of europe. a mosaic of stories that tell history, a debate enriched by the vision and perception of all those who participated in it and which, almost by definition, cannot be the subject of a compromise text. all of us here who have negotiated this kind of resolution know that they are only a "clip-on" of the contributions of each negotiator. and what may work for the drought in spain cannot account for the complexity of the most essential page of our european history. the compromise has rendered this text devoid of any power or message. i would have liked them to concentrate on its first point, its real message: to know our past, so as never to relive it. to keep this memory alive forever, to teach it, to perpetuate it. a challenge at a time when half our young people don't even know the name hitler!
in writing. information and communication - the loch ness monster or almost the european union! this is the only theme that brings us together: from left to right in this house, we all agree that we deplore the catastrophic deficit in this area. a black hole into which skeptics of all stripes are sinking to spread their poison, as evidenced by the debate raging in france at the moment! the no camp will not back down from any lie to advance... in the name of europe, it is a feat! is it not paradoxical that the commissioner for communication, who took part in the debate, was ten times more visible in her previous portfolio, the environment, than in this one, which should put her in the forefront? poor europe, a "non-communicable" object if there is one. i don't have a magic recipe, any more than most people do. just some certainties. point 5 of our report, for example: teaching europe in schools, telling it, telling it, decoding it, and in a living way: dialogues, exchanges, visits... mission essential, not impossible. i have answered the questions of thousands of high school students over the last six years and i know that for them the union will never again be a virtual object!
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the way the european union has dealt with russia in recent years is not very encouraging to me. especially not from the point of view of the terrible war in chechnya. indeed, most government leaders avoid sensitive topics such as the war in chechnya and respect for human rights in their talks with putin. and if they say anything, it's because of conflicting views. in the book 'the european impotence' by the eurojournalist ben van der velden, i read the transcript of a conversation between the author and commissioner patten. on 27 october 2003, commissioner patten said of his contacts with the russian authorities, and i quote: "my outsider opinion is that warm encounters accomplish nothing. you have to look at what you're getting from the other party. you also have to be prepared to be difficult at a summit on an issue like chechnya". the european parliament has always been in favour of an inclusive peace process. this means a process involving all sectors of chechen society, both within chechnya and with the rebels who renounce terrorism. and at summits, indeed, we must talk about the violation of human rights, we must talk about the fight against international terrorism, but, ladies and gentlemen, we must also talk about a political solution and try to enforce it. and with all due respect, commissioner, with all due respect, to talk about aid for socioeconomic recovery on top of the humanitarian aid that is absolutely necessary without any serious solution to the conflict, that is a bad thing. i was in chechnya, i was in grozny, i saw what happens to the money there: that either go to build government buildings or end up in the hands of criminals like ramzan kadurov. that is the reality, and perhaps we should acknowledge that a soft approach does not work in russia. maybe we should recognize and do what khrushchev once did in a meeting before the united nations: he took his shoe and he hit the table and he said, "this is my will". why is europe not doing this with regard to the war in chechnya?
member of the commission. i would like to thank those present for being here on what is perhaps the first night of summer, but i must admit that i am one of the victims of this summer night because of my hay fever, so i would like to ask for your patience. κυρία πρόεδρε, κυρίες και κύριοι βουλευτές, θέλω να αξιοποιήσω την ευκαιρία που έχω να μιλήσω στα ελληνικά στο κοινοβούλιο διότι αυτή είναι μια ευκαιρία που δυστυχώς δεν έχω στην επιτροπή και θέλω να αναφερθώ με συντομία, βεβαίως, στο σημερινό θέμα. όταν είχα παρουσιασθεί ενώπιόν σας στη διάρκεια της ακρόασής μου, σας είχα διαβεβαιώσει ότι θα προωθούσα τα θέματα υγείας και, πάνω απ' όλα, την ασφάλεια των καταναλωτών. το θέμα που θα συζητήσουμε τώρα, όπως και το επόμενο, πετυχαίνουν ακριβώς αυτόν τον σκοπό: συνδυάζουν την προώθηση της υγείας και, βεβαίως, την προστασία των καταναλωτών. είναι μια πρόταση που συμβάλλει σε μεγάλο βαθμό στην προστασία της υγείας, αλλά λαμβάνει υπόψη και τις ανάγκες της βιομηχανίας για ένα σαφές, ξεκάθαρο, κοινό στην ευρωπαϊκή αγορά ρυθμιστικό πλαίσιο, που όμως επιτρέπει την καινοτομία και την ανταγωνιστικότητα και ενισχύει την εσωτερική αγορά παρέχοντας ταυτόχρονα προστασία στους καταναλωτές. θα ήθελα να ευχαριστήσω την εισηγήτρια, κ. scheele, όπως και τον κ. stubb, εισηγητή για την επιτροπή εσωτερικής αγοράς. βεβαίως, κύρια πρόεδρε, κυρίες και κύριοι βουλευτές, σε έναν ιδανικό κόσμο όλα τα αναγκαία διατροφικά στοιχεία θα τα έπαιρνε ο καταναλωτής από μία υγιή και συνήθη διατροφή. όλα τα θρεπτικά συστατικά θα τα έπαιρνε μέσα από την κατανάλωση της κανονικής του διατροφής. δυστυχώς όμως, αυτό δεν ισχύει πλέον. με τις σημερινές συνθήκες, με τον σημερινό τρόπο διαβίωσης, ο καταναλωτής χρειάζεται επιπρόσθετη ενίσχυση στη διατροφή του και γι' αυτό είναι χρήσιμη η προσθήκη στα τρόφιμα τόσο βιταμινών όσο και ανόργανων αλάτων -αυτά που αποκαλούμε "minerals". οι ίδιοι οι καταναλωτές το επιδιώκουν διότι η προσθήκη αυτών των συστατικών στα τρόφιμα βοηθά τον καταναλωτή να λάβει σε ικανοποιητικό επίπεδο αυτές τις θρεπτικές ουσίες αλλά και να μειώσει τους κινδύνους που συνεπάγεται η έλλειψή τους από μη επαρκή κατανάλωση. η συγκεκριμένη πρόταση εναρμονίζει πλήρως τους κανόνες εθελοντικής προσθήκης θρεπτικών ουσιών, δεν επηρεάζει όμως τις πρόνοιες, σε εθνικό -για λόγους δημόσιας υγείας συνήθως- ή κοινοτικό επίπεδο, για υποχρεωτική προσθήκη θρεπτικών ουσιών. οι θρεπτικές ουσίες που συνήθως προστίθενται είναι βιταμίνες και ανόργανα άλατα, γι' αυτό είναι χρήσιμο η πρόταση να ρυθμίζει συγκεκριμένα αυτά τα συστατικά. όμως, τα τελευταία χρόνια έχει αυξηθεί η χρήση, πλην των βιταμινών και των ανόργανων αλάτων, και άλλων ουσιών και συστατικών που χρησιμοποιούνται με έναν καινοτόμο τρόπο. γι' αυτό είναι σωστό η πρόταση να καλύψει την ασφαλή χρήση και αυτών των ουσιών και, εφόσον κριθεί αναγκαίο, να τις υποβάλει σε ρυθμιστικό καθεστώς.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would first like to thank our rapporteur, mrs karin scheele, for the quality of this report on a subject which is of great interest to the citizens of europe. the addition of vitamins and minerals to a very wide variety of foods is more than a fad, it is a response to a reality - and i should like to make it clear - a reality of a general change in our eating habits. for example, breakfast cereals that are supposed to be enriched with iron have, in many cases, replaced meat as the main source of iron in children's diets, and this is just one example among many. that is why i think we must be flexible in this area. then yes to better labeling. no to protectionism and certain derogations such as those provided for in amendment no 39. finally, we are opposed to the establishment of a positive list for the whole range of new substances. i would like to end, but i could have started there, by asking commissioner kyprianou a question: when do you intend to implement the better regulation which is being advocated by many members of the commission, including you and commissioner verheugen? let me explain. the rigidity of legislation - fortifications, claims, food supplements, labelling directives and so on - only constrains us as legislators. technology is increasingly taking precedence over politics. so, in the interests of smes and consumers in particular, who need clear, transparent and effective legislation to believe in europe, i hope that the commission will adopt very soon the comprehensive and coherent approach we need in food legislation.
i do not know whether the average european is healthier than he used to be, but the fact that many people are part of a health trend is a fact and i do not think it is so bad. the food industry is aware of this, of course, and the food industry wants to sell. but we also see that it sometimes responds to consumer sensitivity in a very innovative and positive way. what we are seeing today, and what we have actually known for a number of years, is that the summary legislation that exists on this subject at european level is outdated and that it is therefore really time for a modified legislative framework, i.e. a framework that properly protects the consumer, that provides him with useful information, that provides sufficient legal certainty, that stimulates innovation and that really harmonises the rules of the game in the internal market. the commission proposal meets that requirement in that it provides more truth, more usefulness, a better scientific basis, more harmonization. but there are a number of adjustments that need to be made, and they have already been listed by colleagues. what we think, mr president, is that where it is a little less permissible, it is where the notification is concerned, at least the admission procedure for the granting of certain individual claims. we believe that control can be achieved by notification and that a bureaucratic admission procedure is really a step too far. we also think that the nutritional profiles proposed in the proposal for a directive to be able to carry at least one claim are not necessary either. that too is a step too far and colleagues have pointed out why. and finally, i think it is also true that we can say that it is not reasonable to exclude alcoholic products in advance of any possibility of any claim. we know that the ice didn't melt overnight. the commission has done a great deal of preparatory work on this, in the competent or representative organizations on all sides, including here in the european parliament. thirteen years ago, i was a freshman mp. my first call to the commission was to ask: where are we on the health claims? it was already being worked on. i am glad that we are finally going to vote tomorrow and i hope that we will get a satisfactory result.
madam president, 'no added sugar', 'high in iron', 'low in cholesterol' or, and this is a current bestseller, 'high in omega 3', health claims are flourishing on almost every packaging today and naturally influence the choice of consumers we are. the consumer must therefore be helped in this real jungle and that is the purpose of this excellent proposal for a regulation: first to check that the allegations are not false, that is the minimum, and then to put an end to those that are ambiguous. back to my example: rich in omega 3. in principle, this is very good, but not for products that are too fatty, too sweet or too salty. the text is full of nutritional and health claims, not advertising as we heard here today. no products will be banned, and neither will advertising. simply put, the honest thing to do with these products is to focus the advertising on pleasure, if the manufacturers want it, not health. that is why it is essential, tomorrow, to re-establish the nutritional value at the heart of the text, a criterion which is recognised by the who, particularly in the fight against the evil of this century, overweight and obesity, which affects 40% of children in europe. a criterion which will also prohibit any form of health claim for alcoholic beverages, which is the least of these things, you will admit. in conclusion, to follow up tomorrow the excellent work of our rapporteur, mrs poli bortone, and to turn the tide, is to prove that this parliament really has at heart the interests of well-meaning industrialists, i would say, and of consumers in europe.
i would like to thank mrs oomen-ruijten in particular for the fact that her report clearly expresses the strong call of this european parliament for an ambitious social agenda for the european union. i think it is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that we hold this debate together with the debate on the integrated guidelines for economic and employment policy, because economic and employment policies are not incompatible with sound and ambitious social policies. i would say the opposite. protecting the social rights of workers, combating social exclusion, investing in lifelong learning are essential to stimulating the economy and employment. the commission, mr commissioner, says so in your social agenda, but frankly, when the lisbon strategy was presented, there was absolutely no trace of social policy, and that is a missed opportunity. the debate i have seen so far on the french referendum on the constitution makes it very clear to me that people in europe, and not just in france, are crying out for a more social face in the european union, and i think we can help to make that happen. the european commission has given a good start in its agenda, but it can be a little more concrete and a little more. i think, for example, that the commission is right to emphasize implementation and compliance with legislation, but in an enlarged union too, commissioner, we must remain ambitious in relation to social objectives. we still need new legislation. for example, parliament has been calling for a long time for a revision of the directive on the european works council or a directive on the protection of workers in the event of individual dismissal. i also believe that the european union must remain a leader in the fight against discrimination and people with disabilities are very much counting on the european union to legislate here too. the constitution sets incredibly high expectations in relation to social rights and, commissioner, please let us deliver on that now. i think that the european agenda, the social agenda, could use a lot of reinforcement and i hope for a very good interinstitutional dialogue to make the agenda that the commission has put forward even stronger.
i would like to thank mr bösch for his excellent report and for the excellent cooperation. i would like to stress two points here tonight. firstly, the responsibility of the member states. we must not forget that 80% of all european aid is managed by those member states, and we are therefore right to ask the member states to do more. this means, in particular, that additional efforts will be made to report possible irregularities and fraud. this means strengthening the systems for monitoring and managing the structural funds. there's a long way to go. this also means that extra efforts must be made to recover funds which have been over- or wrongly paid. the sum involved is a significant sum, 3 billion euros. in his speech mr bösch emphasized the whole story and it is true that the member states must be involved. they have not yet accepted their responsibility. the disappointing thing is that the member states with the highest reported irregularities are also the ones with the lowest recovery rates. secondly, the cigarette fraud. the european parliament, as mr mulder has pointed out, is the motor here. the problem was an important part of the committee's investigation of transit fraud. each container that disappears represents a loss of revenue of eur 1.5 million for the member states and the union, i.e. for the taxpayer. next wednesday we will be questioning the council and the commission about the agreement concluded with the tobacco giant philip morris. the tobacco giant will deposit $1.25 billion into a union account over the next 12 years. so i would like to congratulate the commission and the olaf anti-fraud office for their exemplary cooperation in this matter. more of these agreements are needed, including with other tobacco giants. the past referendums, and jan mulder has also pointed this out, have taught us that people have doubts about the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, mr bösch, if you say that we must abolish export subsidies and you give the reasons why this should be done, because it is just a scheme which is very susceptible to fraud, then you know that you have found in me a supporter. let us put the issue of export subsidies firmly on the political agenda.
vice-president of the commission. thank you for your comments. several speakers touched upon the subject of olaf. as i said, and as you all know, in july we will have a broad discussion about the status of olaf and the legal environment surrounding it. i hope we can settle some of the outstanding questions during the hearings. my desire, and that of the commission, is to calm the turbulence surrounding olaf, to develop a reliable, efficient organisation, where it is possible to follow a case from start to finish and deal with it in a reasonable timescale, following all necessary procedures and without intervening in matters of substance. we must create an institution that is a beacon of trust and which helps us to dispel the shadow of suspicion, which is everywhere in the european institutions, not only concerning olaf, but all issues. i agree with mr bösch and other speakers that we have an extensive range of rules and programmes that may give rise to the possibility of fraud, but also offer great scope for mismanagement and weak control. no-one fully understands the origins of these programmes, rules and subsidies. consequently, i ask members of parliament to support all the efforts we are now making to simplify the rules and proposals so as to make the financial system more transparent, simpler, visible and easier to follow and control. this is a major question. the commission and parliament have made proposals, but we need more concrete proposals. sometimes, someone suggests that a regulation or subsidy should be abolished because of the damage it is causing. then someone else will say that it is good enough, that we cannot change anything, that there are certain political purposes and reasons behind it, so we try instead to simplify it, with the result that little is finally achieved. i am happy to hear that there is a clear understanding about the responsibility of member states in all these matters. we are preparing certain proposals to strengthen our single audit model as part of the integrated control framework. i hope that i can soon inform members of parliament of our proposals. so far the response to these proposals has been very positive in several member states, but not in all. the sharing of responsibility between the commission and member states is crucial. mr mulder asked about the public prosecutor. the commission has been very much in favour of the idea of a public prosecutor, but many member states have not been very positive on this issue. the commission did not include it in its working programme, because it saw clearly that it would meet fierce resistance from certain member states. it was included in the ‘hague programme’, which increases judicial cooperation between member states. as far as i know, however, it is being withdrawn from that programme. we deeply regret this and will try to find other ways to increase cooperation between member states. the issues raised by mr fazakas clearly show how the lack of a proper cooperation mechanism makes it difficult to achieve effective results. in reply to his question, of course we will provide a report up to october 2005. yet this is an issue where we can clearly see that one member state initially made intensive efforts, with very good cooperation with olaf, and then the case was divided up among the member states where these operations occurred. judiciaries in the different member states examined these issues in very different ways, giving priority to different aspects. therefore, some kind of model for cooperation would be very useful. as mr lundgren pointed out, fighting fraud is a very systemic question. the commission wishes to develop a systemic response to possible fiscal mismanagement. we can never avoid bad things, but the question, in a democratic society, is how we handle such cases and how we develop a systemic response capable of dealing with all possible nasty surprises.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the rapporteur, mrs brepoels, for the work they have done on this subject at first reading. if we are to make good environmental policy, then we need to have good information. the directive under discussion will therefore make a significant contribution to improving this information infrastructure base. indeed, policy-making is often hampered by the fact that information is often not available in a form that would allow it to be used. sometimes the data just doesn't exist. sometimes they do exist but are not sufficiently documented or of satisfactory quality. in other cases, information is fragmented and in a variety of different forms and types, making it impossible to use it for policy-making at european level. in other cases, the information is held by government authorities who do not wish it to be disclosed. european policy makers are either denied access to relevant information or forced to accept cumbersome and costly licensing arrangements to gain access to data. the result is that our environmental policy is not based on knowledge to the extent that this would be possible and desirable. inspire will help to remove these barriers by obliging public authorities to improve documentation and ensure the interoperability of their data systems. they'll also share the data with each other and with the public. in this way, the knowledge infrastructure will be improved, not only for environmental policy but also for other policy areas that use the same geographical data. intensive discussions have taken place over the last six months between the three institutions with a view to reaching agreement on this subject at first reading. unfortunately, this has not been possible because of continuing concerns raised by some member states in relation to intellectual property rights. i am, however, very grateful for the persistence and diligence with which parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs brepoels, has tried to reach an agreement with the council. in the course of these discussions parliament has shown that it clearly understands the importance of removing the barriers i mentioned earlier in order to improve the knowledge infrastructure for environmental policy.
the commissioner has already mentioned that there is a great need for information and for better management of existing information flows. this applies to the european union in general - we also noted this in the constitutional referenda - but also to all community policies in particular. despite decades of common european environmental policy, significant barriers to the access to and use of spatial information at community level are still identified. there are already a number of instruments, i am thinking of the european environment agency, and new instruments are being developed in a number of related directives. in order to address these shortcomings, the commission has indeed put forward a proposal for the creation and operation of an infrastructure for spatial information in europe, which we have called 'inspire' for short. it will indeed be based in the first instance on the existing data infrastructures and information in the member states. i can tell you, commissioner, that we are indeed fully in favour of the aims and principles of the proposal, because inspire also aims to give citizens a better understanding of environmental policy and to make environmental policy more accountable at local and regional level. inspire also aims to promote reuse, but above all the exchange and sharing of data between public authorities. it certainly also wants to be the engine for gathering new relevant environmental information. finally, it will certainly also be a tool for making environmental policy more efficient and effective across borders. the proposal does indeed concern information necessary to monitor the state of the environment, but also to improve it. it can therefore support all policies that have a direct or indirect impact on the environment. as you have already pointed out, there has been a wide-ranging debate in our committee on the environment. i can tell you that some members wanted to go further and others thought the proposal was going a little too far, but we in parliament thought we should propose some constructive and useful changes to this rather technical proposal in order to meet some of the legitimate concerns of the current players in the field without losing sight of the final objective. i'll name a few. we have concentrated on the cost-benefit issue. you know that data providers are concerned about the revenue they want to continue to generate in order to also promote innovation and development. i think it's important that inspire itself doesn't get involved in that debate about compensation to those suppliers. this remains the responsibility of the member state. secondly, the existing european and international intellectual property rights regulations will remain in place. no reproductions are allowed, nor can the data be sold freely. thirdly, we also built in a number of safeguards for free weeding, as it is called, to avoid improper use for commercial reasons. it should also be very clear that download and processing services can be provided at cost if desired. finally, in order to respect the division of responsibilities within the member states, we also proposed some amendments, because we think it is important that the authorities which collect spatial information - and often they are regional and local authorities - should also be involved in the coordination of infrastructure and also be responsible for contacts with the european commission. i can tell you that in very constructive consultation with the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups, we have succeeded in adopting the report unanimously in our committee. a number of compromise amendments were drawn up to ensure that parliament's position is coherent and unambiguous. finally, i would also like to thank the commission for the support we have received, not least during the informal discussions with the council, in order to reach an agreement at first reading. we have not succeeded in this, unfortunately. this is a waste of time, but we have made very important progress together. the informal discussions with coreper have already clarified and concretized a number of ideas for the future. i hope that the plenary will adopt this proposal with the same enthusiasm tomorrow. it should enable us to take another important step towards a more sustainable european environmental policy.
the rapporteur. mr president, terrorism is a multifaceted nebula that has hit europe hard and, unfortunately, it will continue to represent a major threat to our democracies if we do not reach a very broad consensus to combat it, if there is no sincere will to cooperate among us and if we do not adopt a comprehensive strategy to eradicate it. it is not enough to react, we must anticipate, go ahead of the movement. the european parliament must be able to express its opinion on the matter. i therefore welcome the five reports that are being put to the vote today because each one sets out very concrete measures to combat this scourge, and i am reassured by the conviction shared by mrs diéz gonzález, mr mayor oreja, mr lambridinis and mr borghezio and myself. i hope that these reports will be adopted, if not unanimously - which would be ideal - at least by a very large majority. the exchange of information and intelligence is a key element in preventing the threat of terrorism and effectively combating serious crime. but for this exchange of information to work well, it is urgently necessary to bring order and coherence to the regulations we know and to verify, through a serious evaluation, that they bring real added value. we must avoid safety lapses in the name of efficiency, while being careful not to impede efficiency in the name of a laxative discourse. let us be clear: when it comes to fighting terrorism, it is not the democratic struggle, waged with determination and in accordance with the law, that is dangerous, but the lack of reaction. in this respect, i think the proposal for a council decision is useful because it strengthens vertical cooperation by involving europol and eurojust and allows for analysis. the swedish proposal is useful because it allows for very rapid bilateral exchanges in the framework of horizontal cooperation between the services of the member states. in my view, the proposals are complementary. the amendments adopted in committee strengthen the effectiveness of the measures, in particular by allowing the transmission of information relating to criminal records, by encouraging the spontaneous exchange of useful information, by setting deadlines for the exchange of information, by requiring the reasons for any refusal, by providing for the submission of an annual report to parliament or by giving the court of justice the power of interpretation. in addition, for the first time, we propose a coherent set of controls establishing a level of data protection in the third pillar equivalent to that of the first pillar, including the creation of a joint supervisory authority. on this basis, we can finally explain to the police services, in a very simple and very concrete way, for example in the form of a code, what good practice is to be followed. this will help to remove the objections which are often used as a pretext for inaction. we are simply consulted for our views, but we take the initiative in making specific proposals. if the vote is largely in favour, as was the case in committee, it will be impossible for the council and the commission to turn a deaf ear, to ignore our proposals, which are, i think, balanced. we are playing a very important political role here, and i am sure that mr frattini and mr de vries will have heard us and will be our interpreters. we must also act urgently on other fundamental issues, such as the european criminal record and the fight against the financing of terrorism, because money is indispensable to this. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. ladies and gentlemen, terrorism takes many forms. the most important threat today is the violence of the nebula of terrorist groups who falsely claim the right to invoke islam. but there are other threats as well. in our fight, we must be careful to identify our various targets; we need to be mindful of the links between terrorism and major crime. we must also set up an early warning system, by strengthening cooperation between intelligence services and by ensuring better protection of the most threatened sites. there is also much to be done in terms of prevention. we must not be trapped by the alibis that terrorists use to justify the unjustifiable. but it is true that they refer to problems, which often exist and require solutions. and action on this is a breeding ground for those who are cornered in despair and open to terrorist madness. prevention also requires that we demonstrate pedagogy to show the danger of certain speeches, and requires a pedagogy of democracy to remind the importance of tolerance of debate, respect for the other. we also need to have the ability to respond appropriately when disaster strikes. in this case, solidarity must be the answer: political and practical solidarity must be shown, mobilizing all our resources and energies to assist and to repress. we must think even more about the victims of terrorism. they must be involved in the process to address their concerns, but also to show them that efforts are being made to ensure that such tragedies never happen again. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our strength in the face of barbarism is our passion for freedom and democracy, with human rights at its heart. once again, let us be willing and unanimous, and then we can triumph over those who dream of destroying the ideals on which our europe is founded.
i would also like to thank the six rapporteurs for their report. as shadow rapporteur for my group, i have tried to make a positive contribution to the borghezio report to help combat the financing of terrorism. the interventions show that everyone agrees that a coordinated approach is needed to combat international organised terrorism and its financing. the people expect a strong european response. there is no question of the added value of european cooperation in this field. tracing and combating the financing of terrorist networks and/or attacks is not an easy task, as it often involves small amounts. in addition to the abuses through the regular financial sector, charitable organizations in particular have proved to be a favorite field for international terrorism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. after the attacks of september 11, 2001, the world was suddenly awakened and no less than 86 cases were opened in our country. the organizations concerned all declare that they are charitable, but their sole reason for existence is to raise and divert funds for the benefit of a terrorist organization. such statistics, as well as the result of the investigation into the murder of van gogh in the netherlands, for example, show that there is an urgent need for a preventive policy based on the exchange of information, improved traceability of financial transactions and greater transparency of legal entities. the specific recommendations in this report deserve our support, both in terms of establishing common frameworks for crossborder research, developing a network for structured information exchange, improving cooperation with sustrans and developing minimum standards for verifying the identity of customers. finally, we also want to give charitable organizations the means to protect themselves better against abuse by terrorist organizations. we therefore hope that this report will be a catalyst for a structural and sustainable approach to combating the financing of terrorism in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the first. it is indeed astonishing that the practical cooperation and the far-reaching exchange of information on the fight against terrorism between the various european member states on the one hand and between the european member states and the other countries of the free west on the other hand has been so slow and difficult to date. i am an informed eurosceptic, but at least in that area, i think, there cannot be enough cooperation. it is the concrete safety of our citizens that is at stake. we now know that the attacks of september 11 were at least partly planned in hamburg. we know that after the madrid bombing, terrorist cells have been uncovered all over europe. it is clear that terrorism is transnational and that the fight against terrorism must be transnational. the second. there can be no fear of cold water. you have to be brave enough to call a man a horse. terrorism in europe has become almost exclusively a matter of islam. american experts warn us today of the return from iraq and other hotbeds of islamic militants who have been radicalized there and who have learned terrorist techniques there. the advance of intolerant islam in europe is definitely a fertile breeding ground for terrorism. not every muslim is a terrorist, but almost every terrorist is an islamist. the third. i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that for many years now european aid to palestine has been used not only to allow mrs arafat to live a luxurious life in paris but also to finance terrorism in israel. we cannot fight terrorism in europe and finance it by vote in israel. if there is no more clarity and transparency about the use of these funds in palestine, they should be suspended.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the temporary committee on the financial perspectives, its rapporteur mr böge and mrs catherine guy-quint in particular. why thank you? first of all, thank you very selfishly, because the proposals on heading 4, which i support as rapporteur for afet, call for an increase of four billion euros. i can hardly say that, because it is in fact in line with our vision of a strong foreign policy for the european union. secondly, because it proposes that the initiative on democracy and human rights should have a specific, clear programme, allowing ngos to subscribe to it independently of their government and under the exclusive control of parliament. thirdly, and not least, thank you for reducing the overall budget proposal to 1.18 commitment points and 1.7 payment points, which is close to the prodi commission proposal. we shall not achieve either europe or enlargement without a certain amount of resources. the last elections and the last referendums proved it. so i will simply say - i rarely agree with mr barroso, but on this point i do - i will say this to the council: we have done an extraordinary job of parliamentary democracy here by overcoming our national differences; we have done a great job of building a parliamentary democracy in europe. i would ask the council to take that into account.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, i will join my colleague, mr van den berg, in speaking first on behalf of the committee on international trade and then as the first speaker of my group. i think that on behalf of the committee on international trade we can only thank the rapporteur for the quality of his work and for the way in which the work was carried out in the temporary committee. our committee on international trade made a number of recommendations which i would say are budget-friendly, which makes it easier for this committee to approve. i think one of the points in our resolution was to stress the importance, in the context of the wto negotiations, of ensuring that the union, through its budget, can provide assistance, in particular to the acp countries, in order to prepare these negotiations properly. i suppose that is not one of the main points of this negotiation, but we want to stress it nonetheless. now, on behalf of my group, as one of the speakers in my group - mrs buitenweg, our coordinator, will speak later - i would like to say two things. on the one hand, the reason why the green group tabled an alternative resolution is that we thought that in this game of three, in this institutional triangle, parliament's message should be to strengthen that of the commission and to support the commission's proposals, even indicating, on certain budget lines, the willingness to go further than the commission's proposals, while remaining within the limits allowed by the treaties. that is why, as we shall see, we have wanted to change a number of priorities, in particular in favour of rural development and also the lines relating to education and culture. i would also like to address the presidency of the council. it is not, of course, a question of overwhelming the presidency, because the presidency, as we know, does everything possible, as they say. it is rather a matter of overwhelming the countries - the 1% club - which want, as the saying goes, butter, butter money and the smile of the creamery. from this point of view, an agreement is needed, but not at any price: the difference between the commission's proposal and the council's proposal is, nevertheless, at the moment, eur 150 billion over seven years. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr böge, and the colleagues who have assisted him, on the extent and the high quality of the work they have done and on the political vision behind their report. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i shall not complain. i am even pleased to say that i fully support the guidelines proposed by the böge report for the important area of freedom, security and justice, which is, structurally and budgetarily, recognised and enshrined as one of the fundamental priorities of the union. i note with satisfaction that the böge report proposes, as i had asked, that within the new heading 3, this sector be, in a sense, 'sanctified' by the creation of an autonomous subheading, which will guarantee it the necessary means for its development. i am also pleased to note that the report proposes a substantial increase in budgetary appropriations, which will make it possible to strengthen the fight against organised crime and terrorism, to better control the union's external borders and to implement the common immigration and asylum policies effectively. finally, mr president, on a strictly personal basis, and as a member of parliament elected in wallonia, i would like to make it very clear to the minister-president of the walloon region, mr jean-claude van cauwenberghe, that i strongly support the request in paragraph 58 of the report to defend the legitimate interests of the regions affected by the statistical effect of enlargement. this will prevent mr van cauwenberghe from issuing another grossly untrue statement.
i think, mr president, that at a time when europe is going through a crisis after the referendums, it is essential that the institutions prove that the union is still alive and can continue to work. a decision on the multiannual plan will be a very important test of credibility. that is why it is so important that we as a parliament should be able to make a statement tomorrow, and perhaps we can do so thanks to the remarkable work of our rapporteur, who has given us the necessary means to make enlargement a reality, but also - and this is also the merit of the rapporteur's proposals - to make the new policy in the union possible. i hope that the council, led by luxembourg and with the cooperation of the commission, will then draw up a proposal which will provide a real basis for negotiation with parliament in order to reach an agreement. i would like to stress today that it is already clear that it will be impossible to work towards the future with the union's resources as they are defined today. 1% is too little, perhaps 1.7% is too little to make the union really work. the british rebate is a mortgage on the whole of the union's own resources, but the basic decision must be that if the union cannot have real own resources, the union will sooner or later run aground. the union must be able to define its policies with genuine own resources, and only then will we be able to achieve our ambitions. the discussion of this during the next multiannual plan must also be part of the agreement we will conclude with the council.
member of the commission. the eu leads the world in the fight against climate change. it has taken a leading role in the implementation of the kyoto agreement and is equally instrumental in addressing the global debate on post-2012. however, it must be stressed that the eu cannot solve the world’s energy and climate problems alone, a fact recognised in the conclusions of the council of 22-23 march, also referred to by the honourable member, which set out the objectives for all the developed countries and not just the eu. the objective of reducing greenhouse emissions must be set in the context of sharply increasing global energy demand, which is predicted to rise by 60% by 2030, and increasing concerns over energy dependency in the geopolitically unstable regions of the world. european energy research thus has to face the threefold challenge of ensuring security of energy supply over the short, medium and long term, enhancing competitiveness and winning the battle against climate change. no single technology can provide the solution; a broad technology portfolio approach is required, embracing actions with a relatively short term perspective and others with a much longer term view. to achieve the goal of a more sustainable energy system, energy research has to strike a balance between increasing the efficiency, affordability, acceptability and security of existing technologies and sources of energy, whilst simultaneously aiming at a longer-term paradigm shift in the way europe generates and consumes energy. in this equation, nuclear technologies will continue to play a role, along with the increased uptake of renewable energy sources and other clean energy technologies such as hydrogen and fuel cells and co2 capture and storage. nuclear fission currently contributes 16% of the eu's energy supply and is, along with renewables, a major source of carbon-free electricity. moreover, key objectives of the community research programme on fission concern the safe management of nuclear waste, the operational safety of nuclear installations and radiation protection, which covers a wider field than energy, such as medical uses. fusion has the potential to make a major contribution to the realisation of the sustainable and secure energy supply for the eu within a few decades. recent technical studies suggest that an adequately funded fast-track fusion development programme, including iter, could lead to the operation, within thirty years, of a demonstration fusion power plant through which the commercial viability of fusion energy could be established. in view of the scale and technical challenge of this technology, it can only be pursued at community level, and indeed, for a major initiative such as iter, at global level. it is recalled that in the conclusions of the march meeting, the european council also invited the commission to forge ahead with iter, to start its construction before the end of 2005. however, it is clear that the commission's proposal for the seventh framework programme also puts strong emphasis on non-nuclear energy in general, with a significantly increased the budget compared to the sixth framework programme and an emphasis on renewable energy sources in particular. generally, the share of euratom in the total framework programme drops from 7.5 % in the sixth framework programme to 5.9% in the seventh framework programme. the renewables are recognised as being key technologies for europe in that they are indigenous sources of energy and can be adapted to different regional conditions. renewable energy sources for electricity generation, fuel production and for heating and cooling are all given a high profile in the commission's proposal for the seventh framework programme, within the broader portfolio approach mentioned earlier. as a comparison, the overall level of funding for non-nuclear research is more than four times as much as for fission. the potential for job creation in the renewable energy sector must be fully exploited, not only through increased research and development, but also through the adoption of policy measures at european and national levels, to facilitate their penetration into the market. currently more than 100 000 jobs have been created in europe in the wind and solar photovoltaic sectors alone. this is a good illustration of the growth potential that can be harnessed through the combination of community research effort and policy measures, such as feed-in tariff schemes and green certificates. the commission will therefore continue to provide a substantial level of support to the research and deployment efforts of renewable based energy systems. it fully expects that they will secure a larger share of the energy mix through the resulting improved technological solutions.
i am very pleased that you have given your full support to renewable energy sources. i do think it is a major turning point. i think the european union has been unilaterally opting for nuclear energy for far too long, and especially for nuclear fission, but i understood the commissioner correctly when he said that nuclear fusion would provide 16% of our electricity needs in the future. that is what has translated into the translation, which surprises me, that figure surprises me enormously. so i'd like some clarification on that. what are the prospects for nuclear fusion and in what timeframe?
the european council, which is to be held in brussels on the same day as the european council, will be the first to discuss the situation in the european union. i was very pleased to hear president barroso refer to our duty in the field of development cooperation. the most important signal will undoubtedly be an agreement on the financial perspective, because this should provide the framework for europe to continue to work in the coming years, and although i agree with mr cohn-bendit that perhaps these financial resources will be too low to allow europe to really do its job, it seems to me that it is of the utmost importance that an agreement on these financial resources should be reached. secondly, the european council must now also give a signal as to how to proceed, because the questions we have asked in the laeken declaration will continue to be asked. it is still true that we have no framework for an enlarged europe, it is still true that europe must respond to globalisation and that only that response can be european. but we must take into account the 'no' vote in two countries on the one hand, and the 'yes' vote in ten countries on the other. and i think that when poul rasmussen says 'the european council must give clarity', the european council cannot give clarity at the moment, in the short term, because the 'no' is far too vague for that too. i therefore call for a period of reflection, but it must be organized, it must be limited in time, it must be decided clearly in advance when conclusions will be drawn, and a year seems to me to be the appropriate time for this; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the left)
in writing. building trust, not more but better europe, was one of the key messages sent to their leaders last week by a majority of citizens in france and the netherlands. and this is one of our priority tasks: to redefine our project, our very identity and to better deploy the means we want to give ourselves. we are now hearing that paradoxically the double 'no' increases the chances of an agreement between governments on the financial perspective, since the urgency of restoring confidence and strengthening the european project is obvious. and i wonder if this prospect is good news for those of us who, like myself, want an ambitious budget to make europe of tomorrow a winner. how can we hope to achieve our ambitions in research and development, the environment, employment, the protection of the less favoured regions, and enlargement if the 'club of the six' does not let go of its weight? we cannot succeed in europe with 25 people and less money than with 15! the promises have been made since the two referendums: a better europe, a europe of recovery and employment ... free promises if the budget doesn't follow. that is why i voted for the böge report, which is ambitious in terms of amounts and guidelines!
mr president, the moraes report is another typical catalogue of good sentiments which in practice usually result in the opposite of what is intended. it is always the case that racism and discrimination are spoken of without being precisely defined. it is of course problematic when they are reflected in the repressive legislation recommended here. it has happened that the largest political party in belgium was condemned partly on the basis of a text on female circumcision. according to the judge, the text was not published to improve the situation of women in islam but to stigmatize islam. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report refers to - and i quote - 'gross racist, anti-semitic, islamophobic and homophobic statements and actions by leading politicians and government officials'. the reality, however, is that almost all anti-semitic incidents are the work of muslim immigrants. the reality is that so-called discrimination is often the result of a lack of integration among immigrants. the reality, mr president, is that the indigenous population has never been democratically consulted on whether it wants to live in a multicultural country and that needs to change urgently.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. president bush's visit to the eu and some member states seems to usher in a new era. we would have liked to have welcomed president bush to this hemisphere, of course, but we have not given up hope of seeing him here. more importantly, however, the conditions appear to be in place to end a difficult period in eu-us relations and to lay the foundations for renewed cooperation that must be based on mutual respect, equality and the determination to frame our joint efforts in the multilateral perspective of the united nations, the world trade organisation and nato. it is obvious that unilateral initiatives which could lead to serious trade conflicts should be avoided. the fact that we ourselves have entered a period of reflection and possible revision following the referendums in france and the netherlands should not be a reason to dismiss the forthcoming summit as a minor event. ten years after the establishment of the new transatlantic dialogue, it is high time to extend it. in this wide-ranging dialogue there must also be room to express our concern about the unacceptable conditions in the prison at guantanamo bay and the restriction of personal freedom and privacy that may result from unilateral security initiatives. both the us and ourselves are very committed to the global spread of democracy, prosperity and human rights, but our views on how to do this can sometimes differ. but ours is not inferior. we are facing enormous challenges in the fight against world poverty, the fight against deadly diseases, peace in the middle east, a peaceful settlement of the so-called frozen conflicts; i hope that both americans and europeans will be able to launch a good cooperation.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in the middle east. there was a debate in january, there was a resolution at the time, there is a euro-atlantic summit in washington at the end of june, and so on. all this is of course useful and interesting, but we are still faced with the situation where transatlantic relations are in need of improvement. this is also a matter of changing attitudes in the first place. we all agree, for example, that the fight against terrorism on the one hand and the promotion of democracy and peace in the world on the other can only be successful by strengthening our partnership with the united states and on the basis of the western values we share. but when it comes to putting the principles into practice, things can go wrong. a perfect example is the european council's intention to lift the arms embargo against china. the united states' opposition to these plans is entirely justified. it is pointless to pay lip service to democratization in the rest of the world when in practice we are doing the exact opposite by accommodating the wishes of a chinese regime which is still as dictatorial as it was in suppressing the tiananmen square uprising. we must therefore dare to put our hand in our own bosom once in a while as europeans. i have already heard references to the situation in guantanamo bay in several debates during this part-session. it is not for me to deny that there is a problem here, but the constant hammering of this issue does expose a certain hypocrisy of our own. the european union has a duty to act in the interests of the european union. president. - we can only welcome the positive outcome of the visits to europe by president bush and condoleezza rice. we must continue in this direction, but when we talk about respect, it must go in two directions.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. human rights watch called the bloody crackdown by the uzbek army and police on protesters and rebels on may 13 a mass slaughter in a report. the organization interviewed 50 witnesses and all the testimonies are consistent. the scale of the shooting was so large and the nature of it so random and disproportionate that it can best be described as a murder. i fully agree with the comments of both the council and the commission and certainly with the words of mr borg when he says that we cannot go on as if nothing had happened, we cannot pretend that business as usual can be done. we must send a strong signal as the european union to this dictatorial, very authoritarian regime, and i therefore agree with all the comments made by colleagues who are calling for more political pressure, for speeding up reforms, for stopping aid through the government or through parliament and only giving aid through ngos. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the union and its member states lose many hundreds, if not billions of euros every year from the sale of tobacco products on the black market, because no excise duties, vat or customs duties are paid. each container of cigarettes smuggled costs the european and national governments around eur 1.5 million in lost revenue. the european parliament took the lead in the fight against this type of fraud in 1995-96 by setting up a committee of inquiry. the problems encountered in transit were identified and solutions proposed under the chairmanship of lord tomlinson and rapporteur kellett-bowman. the commission of inquiry went to the ports of antwerp and rotterdam and studied closely the fraud techniques used by criminal organizations, often of a mafia nature, to evade normal tax obligations. once again, this is a matter of mafia practices in which in recent years deaths have been caused, murders have been committed, officials have been intimidated and bribed, and in some cases politicians have played into the hands of the criminals. the excellent work of the committee of inquiry, the investigative work of our anti-fraud services uclaf and olaf, the task force on cigarette fraud, the close cooperation between customs and police services meanwhile lead to the roll-out of important networks. in november 2000, the community brought a civil action against philip morris and reynolds in the district court of new york for alleged involvement in the smuggling of cigarettes into the european union. ten member states joined the action between january and april 2001. the bare facts brought against philip morris during the court debates prompted the tobacco giant to sign a settlement with the european commission. this multiannual agreement was signed on 9 july 2004 and aims to combat smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes in an efficient manner. it also puts an end to the legal dispute between the union and philip morris. the agreement stipulates that philip morris will pay substantial sums of up to $1.5 billion over a period of 12 years into a bank account managed by the european commission. the agreement represents a new approach to anti-fraud policy and will allow philip morris and the european institutions to pool their resources and work more closely together. this innovative approach is likely to lead to similar agreements with the other two major tobacco giants, british american tobacco and japan tobacco, in the foreseeable future. the budgetary authority in the european union has two branches. the council of ministers and parliament. as members of parliament we are extremely concerned about the way in which the commission and the member states will deal with this unexpected but substantial increase in revenue. i am told by senior officials in the council that the bulk of the philip morris money will go into the national coffers of the member states. the commission's share was 10% and the share of the ten member states which joined the action was 90%. can the council and the commission confirm this allocation key? in this context, it seems that the member states are indeed acting like greedy shopkeepers and mediocre accountants. the 10%-90% division seems to me to be a misunderstanding of the efforts of the commission and olaf. what, ladies and gentlemen, will happen to that money? in fact, it should be used primarily for anti-fraud. i am well aware that the budgetary authority considers the so-called earmarking of certain revenue for specific activities undesirable, but it seems only fair to me that the council and the commission should make a political commitment to this parliament to use a substantial part of this revenue for the fight against fraud and counterfeiting. is the commission prepared to come forward with an action plan and a proposal for a budget line to deal with this problem? there is a tremendous amount of potential, more cross-border cooperation, more computers at the borders, more and better trained control staff, strengthening customs services, investing in tracing and tracing, better prosecution policy, extra manpower for olaf. so let us, ladies and gentlemen, let us, commission, let us, council, not only talk about the allocation of funds but also about the spending of funds. not only is it my money, but i'm looking for value for money. i also expect the commission to report, perhaps behind closed doors, on the progress of negotiations with british american tobacco and japan tobacco. to conclude, based on all this and the agreements we're making, we can talk further, otherwise not. we expect the council to come up with ideas that go beyond the accounting story and propose to use this money wisely. what is your answer, council, commission?
mr president, this report does not solve any problems, it only makes existing problems worse. the repeated calls for new legal immigration are being made, even though most member states do not know how to deal with the problems. the unemployment and crime rates among certain immigrant groups are significantly higher than among the native population. we must also note that large groups of immigrants consciously choose not to integrate. we can approve a thousand more reports, like the gaubert report, with yet another repressive measure against europeans who use their right to free speech to express their discontent with the situation, it will all be worthless, it is talk for the masses and it will not surprise you that i voted against the gaubert report.
in writing. i voted for the excellent report by my colleague john bowis on patient mobility. the text recalls some of the obvious: health as a priority in the eu of 25 with 10% of national gdp devoted to it. health as a national policy is a major building block of social cohesion, which today faces two major challenges: ensuring access to treatment for all citizens and controlling the explosion of health budgets in most member states, as is the case in belgium. this specificity of health services justifies in my view the exclusion of health care from the so-called bolkestein services directive as provided for in paragraph 4 of the resolution. a health policy which must naturally be extended to the european level. this means that the mobility of patients must be facilitated in the same way as that of the travelling citizen, the student or the businessman. this justifies the implementation of the european health insurance card on the ground. launched in 2004 to replace the e111 form, this tool is intended to enable citizens to exercise their rights to health insurance in a simple and effective way in all circumstances.
in writing. on behalf of the adle group, annemie neyts, coordinator for the committee on foreign affairs, said that the adle group voted against the amendments of the green group and in particular against amendments 8, 10 and 11 (climate change, new nuclear weapons and the non-proliferation treaty) in protest against the greens' habit of not joining a joint resolution and then tabled amendments which were not even discussed during the negotiations on this joint resolution in which the green group participated.
president, ladies and gentlemen, during the referendum campaigns in france and the netherlands, we have heard the tenors of the 'yes' camp insist that in the enlarged europe, as defined in the draft constitution, there is little risk of relocations, immigration of cheap labour to the richer member states and distorted competition for smes in the old member states. in my country, flanders, the opposite is already being proved today, when we see how the flemish transport sector is being hit hard by cheap transport companies from eastern europe, and there are other examples to mention. perhaps unconsciously, but i am glad that this report on social inclusion in the new member states has put the finger on the wound on a number of points and has made clear the immense structural social differences between the new member states, many of which are still struggling with the catastrophic legacy of the communist era, and the 15 pre-enlargement member states. despite many good proposals and suggestions - we all want the new member states to achieve as soon as possible a level of prosperity comparable to that of their western neighbours - we must not be blind to the fact that the social integration of the new member states also poses dangers for the cohesion of the european union as a whole. so, if there are no protective measures to avoid the dangers to our economies mentioned, such as social dumping, the strengthening of social cohesion in the new member states must be accompanied by stringent measures to exclude unfair competition within the eu as a whole. if not, then the european politicians have not understood the protest of the dutch and french people, who will no doubt be followed tomorrow by the luxembourgers and the danes, in recent weeks.
mr president, it was bertolt brecht who declared with a loud voice that political leaders should only choose another people when the people vote wrongly. the german playwright's statement is of great relevance today, when we see the stubborn attempt - also at the failed summit in brussels last week - to ignore the voice of the dutch and french people. a small example from my own country may be illustrative. my party, the flemish interest, which is the only party in flanders, the largest in the country, which opposes the european superstate as defined by the constitution, was not even allowed to take part in the debates on this subject organized on the public broadcasting system. the media and political elites have therefore behaved like the pigs in george orwell's animal farm. all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is for comparison, they say. but it is not so much a question of whether europe is spending enough money to meet the challenges of tomorrow. the point is that europe must use its money differently to meet this challenge. the point is that europe should not interfere in matters which can finally be better handled at national level. the point is that europe must learn to respect the principle of subsidiarity if it is to count on the understanding of the citizens. when i see in flanders how billions of european money are disappearing through the structural funds into the bottomless wells of the walloon profiteering, i can only understand the dutch prime minister, for example, who was so shamed by our own foreign minister for his consistent attitude. i am therefore not particularly concerned about the failure of last week's european summit, at the risk of shocking some of you. the world and europe will not perish as some try to make it appear. and yet one positive result has been that everyone, even the most ardent advocates of unchecked enlargement, now agree that a pause should be allowed before further detours are made. if the voice of the dutch and french people brings to an end the undemocratic process of turkish accession, in which the bureaucracy is manifestly acting against the will of the europeans, then the death of the european constitution can also mean the beginning of a new and different europe, where the will of the people is taken into account.
president, as the epp coordinator of our parliamentary steering group on the lisbon strategy, i would like to begin by expressing a little satisfaction. we are pleased that under the luxembourg presidency the lisbon strategy has been given a new impetus and that it is now possible to achieve real results even at this last difficult summit with the adoption of the integrated guidelines. this means that social cohesion, sustainable development and the new emphasis on growth and jobs remain shared priorities by the three institutions. we know that the member states have a leading role to play in this strategy, but europe also has a role to play. we need money to carry out our part of the job, and because of the failure to agree on the financial package, we do not have it or we certainly do not have enough of it. it is shameful for a number of reasons which have been set out here by others, especially in relation to the new member states. it is particularly regrettable that the lack of political will to build the european union together has been painfully exposed. - build into what? let us make good use of the active reflection period we have. let us use it to make the union a project with a visible added value, a value for all those people who fear their jobs, who fear the relocation of their businesses, who fear migration. people who cannot accept the enlargement of the union because they have received far too little information in their own country and who are also afraid of the process of globalisation, which they do not feel is being accompanied in any way. president, if there were another supreme god, if zeus still existed, he would have to fall in love with europe again. i think we must make sure that we offer people a europe like that again, a europe with a certain charm, a europe that is attractive again. the luxembourg presidency of the council is now ending. i think i agree with many when i say that we will continue to count on your commitment, on your conviction, even after june. i also think i speak for many, mr minister, when i say that we are grateful to you for your transparency and your honesty.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the two men responsible for the performance, and i am speaking of the performance, which made possible the agreement which is before us today, on the basis, i should like to point out, of an excellent commission proposal. i would like to thank those who are sitting behind mr fratini today. i would like to thank michael cashman for his willingness, despite the general scepticism, including my own at the beginning, to reach an agreement with the council at first reading. i'm very happy for you, michael. but i also want to congratulate the luxembourg presidency, which has had the necessary drive and tenacity to keep the course and to promote the necessary compromises. wonderful little big land that this grand duchy of luxembourg. i had three particular concerns about this issue. the first was to guarantee the rights of beneficiaries of the community right of free movement, while at the same time offering the possibility of carrying out the checks necessary to identify, when crossing the external borders, persons reported and wanted. the agreement reached on this point, i mean article 6 (2), is very much in line with the spirit of the amendment i myself tabled, and i welcome it. secondly, it seemed to me that the rights of third-country nationals in the event of refusal to enter the territory of the union should be clearly defined and made known to those concerned, and that the security requirements should be strict. the citizens of europe do not want brute beasts to control the external borders, but they do not want eunuchs who have no eyes or arms either. the system that is now in article 11 (13) is a good system and i welcome it. how i welcome, mr president, the confirmation of the exceptional nature of the reintroduction of internal border controls and the reinforced role of the commission and parliament. in view of these three reasons for rejoicing, i shall be happy to vote in favour of this report and the whole group will do the same.
i do think, mr president, that we have sent the wrong signal by voting today on the gargani report on the statute for members, not least because it gives the impression once again that this parliament is actually very much and largely concerned with the personal interests of members. i think that the so-called elimination of certain abuses is just a cover for the bleeding, at best a plaster on a wooden leg. in reality, new privileges are being built into the lives of members of parliament which cannot be defended by anyone or anything. i am thinking, for example, of the planned scheme for the pension fund. it is also a wrong signal because, apart from a number of members of the european parliament themselves, no one in the whole of europe is waiting for a common statute for all members of the european parliament. we are here representing our peoples and our member states. why should we have a different statute than our colleagues in the national parliaments, unless we are of the opinion that europe is a superstate, which is not my wish. if this report is another attempt to get more people to oppose what we are becoming to call the eurocracy, then it has already succeeded in its purpose.
in writing. the adoption of a statute for members of the european parliament is the wrong discussion at the wrong time. at this point, everyone is aware that the eu needs to debate its basic orientation. the decision of the french and dutch people has, among other things, been a clear indication that the eu needs to be closer to its citizens in order to restore the credibility of the european project. in this context, i cannot understand why a debate on the statute of members of the european parliament is on the agenda. the timing is more than bad. i welcome the improvement that travel expenses are reimbursed on the basis of actual costs incurred and are no longer paid in lump sums. i am of the opinion, however, that it is difficult to give parliamentarians a european status which is different from the national one. how can we explain and justify the difference in merit between a member of the european parliament and a member of a national parliament? in the light of the current events, i shall abstain from voting on the statute for members.
in writing. mr president, despite the worst possible timing for the settlement of this long-standing issue of a uniform statute for members, i voted in favour and pressed the plus button. i voted for it because i think it is an excellent statute, because it is not. the degree of uniformity is not sufficient for this. but i have learned from the many times we have voted in parliament and then had to find that the council was unable to reach an agreement that the desired community is not feasible and that there is no 'ideal' statute. the statute proposed by the legal affairs committee, which reportedly has now been approved by the council, is better than the present situation in that it provides the necessary transparency and finally brings us to the only acceptable travel expenses scheme, namely one which consists of reimbursing only the costs actually paid. i am convinced that this alone is a sufficient reason to vote in favour, even if it happens on the wrong day.
president, ladies and gentlemen, like everyone else, i am impressed by the wave of solidarity that the organisation of an event like live aid has generated throughout the western world. millions of people around the world have been able to follow the concerts in hyde park, versailles or toronto on 140 television channels, sending a clear message that we must not let africa down. the question is whether the proposed solution is the ideal one. the question is whether the g8's debt relief for africa is the best way to hold africans accountable and to lift them out of their misery. we must also dare to be critical of a group of african leaders and, as the brother of south african president moeletsi mbeki has said in the daily mail, dare to say out loud that the problem of africa is the plundering of the continent by its own leaders. as a fleming, you know only too well that in the past the belgian politicians have cherished the vulgar thief mobutu, and french african politics has often been one of unscrupulous complicity with political figures who did not give a damn about the misery of their own people. so when bob geldof says that we should not dwell too much on corruption, i cannot follow him on that point. africa deserves all our support, but not when our money ends up in the pockets of corrupt politicians.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on behalf of the liberal and democratic group, i would like to thank professor trakatellis for his excellent work and the quality of the compromise reached with the luxembourg presidency on the prohibition and limitation of the six phthalates used as plasticizers in children's toys and childcare products, which are classified in two categories which i will not go into here. this directive concerns the daily lives of european families and puts an end to these six substances which are dangerous to health, to the environment, toxic to reproduction and in particular disruptive to the immune and hormonal systems. the scientific evidence is piling up, and i'm not going to list it all here, and all the signs turned red. it is only logical that the ministers for industry and trade of the 25 member states, on the proposal of our former dutch liberal colleague jan brinkhorst in september 2004, wanted to withdraw these six phthalates from the market. they did so on the recommendation of the scientific committee on health and environmental risks. they also did so out of pragmatism, because they know that there are many substitutes already on the market, such as citrate. the european parliament, for its part, wished to strengthen the common position for two main reasons: firstly, to improve common sense, since now with the compromise, no distinction is made between a child over three years old and a child under three years old putting their toys in their mouths; secondly, the obligation on us as elected citizens of europe to say no to these phthalates in toys, but also to regulate and gradually ban - if necessary - all phthalates. i believe that the protection of the health of our citizens deserves better than this piecemeal ban. it is difficult for me to explain to the electorate that a teething bottle coated with dehp is dangerous for newborns, as we decree, but that an infusion needle containing the same dehp is harmless for a premature baby. the danger is exactly the same. this legislation should therefore be seen as the first application of the precautionary principle to phthalates. the commission, commissioner, must act swiftly in the field of medical devices and in the field of food packaging and floor coverings. that is the right legislation that europeans are waiting for.
mr president, the persistent claim that the proposal which is the subject of this debate would particularly affect and disadvantage small and mediumsized enterprises continues to circulate. however, greater legal certainty and uniform application of the rules of law in the internal market are objectives which benefit smes in particular. i myself have always believed, and i still believe, that smes do not have a specific problem with this proposal, but rather a general problem with the patent system as such. both in terms of access and in terms of defence. the first reading here was on an amendment calling on the commission to report on the impact of computer-implemented inventions on smes. in the first reading i specifically asked the commission to think again in depth about how, through a european approach, smes can be better placed in patent law. i am pleased to read four amendments in the rocard report which call for special attention to be paid to this segment of the industry. however, many smes do not think this is enough, because they no longer believe in word of mouth. they want facts and they want results. so i have the following questions. why has the commission not taken any concrete action to help smes since it became aware of these problems and concerns among smes - say since the beginning of 2002, three years ago? there is plenty of raw material, since tens of thousands of inventions implemented in computers have already been patented in europe. secondly, is the commission going to do anything concrete for smes now and what is it thinking about? i would very much like a clear answer. my question expresses the concern of large groups of smes and your answer, commissioner, will be a factor in my vote tomorrow.
president. - i have two specific and brief remarks to make in two minutes. i should like to begin by saying something about the former objective 2 regions, which should not be left in the cold. it is absolutely good that the use of scarce resources is concentrated on the lisbon objectives and that innovation policy is given priority. this is all very well, of course, but it leaves little or no room for support for the so-called 'traditional' projects, which are just as important for the local economy and employment. hence the call for a truly decentralised policy, because it is usually the regional policy makers who know very well what measures are needed to stimulate the local economy in a forward-looking way. regional competitiveness and regional employment, because that is what it is about, now represents about 17% of the resources of the structural funds. the commissioner, and i am addressing the council in its absence, cannot be tempted to reduce the budget in absolute terms simply because the present objective 2 regions would then have to pay the price of a lack of european solidarity in a particularly brutal way. secondly, mr president, the co-financing from the private sector. it is crucial, and colleagues from nistelrooij and berend have already said this, that this co-financing remains possible. that is why we expressly ask that the substance of amendment no 52 be retained. we are also very much in favour of amendments nos 124 and 126 on vat. it has been said here on a number of occasions that if non-recoverable vat were to be eliminated as eligible costs, it would be a serious blow to many projects, for example in education. we must avoid that at all costs, must we not, commissioner?
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i have just received a letter from the president of the commission. polygamy, forced marriages, illiteracy, honor killings, domestic violence, discrimination in politics, and so on. this report on the role of women in turkey is quite comprehensive and substantiated, but those who follow the political situation in turkey closely have known for some time that the candidate country, the so-called 'secular model state of turkey', in the words of louis michel, is 'very sick in the bed of human rights'. a fortiori in that of women's rights in an islamic society. it is, however, positive that the rapporteur is once again ignoring certain facts a few months before the official start of the accession negotiations. for those who have learned nothing from the way turkish police are beating up peaceful female protesters, this report comes at the right time. if reports were to be presented on the role of religious minorities, the occupation of cyprus, the rights of armenians or the restriction of freedom of expression and assembly in turkey, there would be no room for positive comments either. it is not a week that goes by without independent sources pointing out serious shortcomings in what we solemnly call fundamental rights. there is no improvement in any of these areas and, by the way, this whole report is in flagrant contradiction to the optimistic tone we heard last year from commissioner verheugen and romano prodi when the commission, in complete contradiction to the truth, tried to convince us that there were still very few human rights problems in turkey. this is just to give turkey the green light. the question is, of course, and i am deciding, whether we will have the political courage to draw the only obvious conclusion, and that is to tell ankara the truth out loud, namely that turkish society is too different in its values from our european union to allow turkey to become a member of the european union in the long term, because that is the only sensible lesson we can draw from this report.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i was told that we must turn the page. i'll turn it around. i will not talk about the mass graves in falluja, i will not talk about the dozens of victims every day, i will not give numbers. i won't talk about the ghetto where foreign nationals are locked up. i won't talk about the kidnapped journalists or my iraqi friends who were murdered. i will not speak of this chaotic and free iraq which often looks like hell. i will not speak of the appalling corruption and misappropriation of oil wealth. and, most importantly, i will not say that, from beginning to end, this war was a tragic mistake. i'm moving on. but, don't ask me to say that all the iraqi people who resisted turned into terrorists. there are terrorists, yes, unfortunately! but there's also a popular uprising. do not ask me to turn a blind eye to the mismanagement of the conflict when bush himself is being attacked on this point within his own party. do not ask me to keep quiet about the fact that european union money is lying unspent in the trust fund of the world bank, headed by wolfowitz, when in its resolution of september 2003 parliament called for all its donations to be managed by the united nations. do not ask me, mr dimitrakopoulos, you who have been an excellent rapporteur, to make a small effort and forget our amendments 11, 12 and 13. that's our red line. why would you do that? but simply because the iraqis are watching and reading us and expect from europe not only hope but also truth. commissioner, you have spoken very well and with great compassion, and we support you. we want to rebuild iraq, but with the iraqis, for the iraqis and only for the iraqis.
in writing. decabromodiphenyl ether is a brominated flame retardant familiar to this house: in february 2003 it was placed 'under high surveillance' at the same time as a report i authored, the european union banned its two 'sister' substances, penta and octabde. decabde is a bioaccumulative chemical found in breast milk for which the european scientific reference committee recommends even greater risk reduction. a substance which the european union has also committed to banning from 1 july 2006 in electrical and electronic equipment. it is therefore surprising that the european commission is proposing a return to the starting point by wanting to revert to this ban through comitology, i.e. in secret. in substance, as in form, this is unacceptable. the commission has not put forward any arguments, and it would have been quite incapable of doing so, to justify this 180-degree turn! i therefore support this resolution and ask the commission to reconsider its decision. if not, i will not hesitate, along with some of my colleagues, to take the matter to the court of justice.
in writing. by voting this afternoon to reject the council's common position, i wanted to express a clear vote against any form of patentability of software. on the contrary, i felt that software, as a work of the human mind, is sufficiently protected by copyright. i also voted, and above all, for the primacy of politics over technology, to live up to the spirit of lisbon! as a liberal, deeply attached to the values of freedom of enterprise and fair and healthy economic competition, i could not accept a text that was 'hand-made' for certain large companies, which already had a quasi-monopoly position in their respective sectors. a proposal for a directive which ultimately aims to kill the creative spirit of young computer scientists and the independence of many european smes and micro-enterprises. a text which, let us be frank, had little to do with the europe of citizenship which we all wish for. in the two years since this debate began, i have not met a single computer scientist, university researcher, individual user or head of a software-producing sme who is in favour of this directive. this could not have been a coincidence!
on behalf of the alde group. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, next monday will mark 10 years since srebrenica was taken by bosnian serb forces in the eyes of un forces, since the murder of over 8,000 muslim men and boys began, since thousands of women, children and elderly people were deported and hundreds of women were raped. the suffering caused is immense and continues to be immense because those responsible are still on the run, because not all the victims have been found, because many of the deportees have not been able to return home and, above all, because the suffering caused is not recognised by many serbs. this was shown recently when the serbian parliament rejected a resolution recognising and condemning the mass murder in srebrenica. we know from experience that reconciliation after war is possible only when the former adversaries succeed in making a common history of what happened, in asking forgiveness for the harm done and in bringing to justice those who have been guilty of genocide and crimes against humanity. the tragedy has also painfully exposed the shortcomings of the eu's foreign and security policy at the time, as well as the shortcomings of un peace-building and peacekeeping policy. some of the shortcomings have been addressed, but unity in foreign and security policy is still not guaranteed, mainly because eu governments are not fully prepared to do so. the european union and its member states have, however, managed to stabilise and improve the situation in the western balkans, both on their own and in the context of nato. these efforts must be continued and the prospect of accession to the european union must be maintained. but this will only be possible if all the authorities in the region cooperate fully with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and bring those responsible before this tribunal.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the former yugoslavia. has anything fundamentally changed in the human rights situation in china in the 16 years since then? i don't know anything. in fact, a huge portrait of mao zedong, the greatest mass murderer of the 20th century, still hangs in tian an men square. today, there are still people in prison for their presence in tiananmen square. they are not the only political prisoners, for the so-called people's republic is still a communist one-party state where there is no freedom of speech, no freedom of the press, no freedom of religion. for example, the day before yesterday monsignor jia zhiguo, bishop of the still underground catholic church in china, was arrested. he's spent over 20 years of his life in captivity. the people's republic of china not only systematically and permanently violates human rights, but also constitutes a threat to regional stability and thus to peace tout court. the so-called anti-secession law is a knife to the throat of taiwan. the european union is blowing hot and cold at the same time. on the one hand, it is stated that the human rights situation in china must improve, on the other hand, it is stated that the arms embargo should be lifted and the chinese regime should be given the signal that it should not be too strict with respect to human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in these circumstances, a strategic partnership with china cannot be an end in itself, nor can the so-called 'one china' policy be an end in itself. if taiwan ever formally declares its independence, europe must immediately recognize that independence and our member states must establish diplomatic relations with taiwan.
president-in-office of the council. first, let me say that i would disagree with his characterisation of the british government’s position in relation to hizbollah, but this is not the forum or the occasion to explore these issues, which are more directly of relevance to the national authorities of the united kingdom than to our role as the presidency. i am, however, grateful to the honourable member for his warm welcome to his home city’s success in securing the olympic games and let me assure him that there are plenty of opportunities in bilateral forums and indeed in contact between the european union and other nations outwith the european union to raise exactly the kind of concerns of which he spoke this afternoon.
madam president, i would like to thank and congratulate the spanish authorities, who have in turn banned the broadcasting of the al manar channel, which we are talking about here, via their hispasat satellite. that said, i would like to ask mr alexander two specific questions, because we do not seem to have the same latest information, nor the same interpretation, of certain articles of the television without frontiers directive. france therefore ordered eutelsat to stop transmitting the signal. that's good. what about globesat, which is a subsidiary of france télécom and which, to my knowledge, has not stopped providing the signal to other satellites which, in turn, do provide this signal outside the borders of the european union? so in your answer you are not very specific, it seems to me, about the intentions of nilesat and arabsat, the egyptian and saudi satellites, which, according to my reading of article 2 (4), fall well within the provisions of the television without frontiers directive. we have, as you know, an association agreement with egypt, so will this be discussed? has she ever been? we have a council meeting on 13 december, do you intend to speak about it? specific questions.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs isler béguin, for the quality of this collaborative work and the energy of her commitment to this issue. at its june plenary session, in its resolution on the challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged union, our parliament sent a very clear political signal to protect the planet, nature and biodiversity. the key issue in this debate is the proper functioning of the natura 2000 network. mrs. lienemann just called again. the commission's experts have estimated the natura 2000 needs at eur 21 billion over seven years. we know that the rural development fund and the structural funds will not cover all the needs. we must therefore strengthen life+, the specific financial instrument for the environment which we have had since 1992. i would therefore like to make two main criticisms to the commission, which i share with our rapporteur. the first concerns the initial amount of eur 300 million, which is of course very insufficient. behind this battle of numbers, it is europe's willingness to tackle major challenges such as air quality, water quality, land use planning and sustainable waste management that is at stake here. the second criticism is that i believe that the european commission should not shirk its responsibilities in the field of the environment. the strategy of integrating the environment into all the union's policies has its limits, commissioner. that is why the alde group will support amendments nos 42, 43 and 44. the european parliament will always be at your side in opposing this environmental europe, which is in some cases declining, and in all cases, is being imposed by certain member states which have chosen to withdraw into themselves.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, on 3 october this year europe will have the opportunity to correct a fundamental mistake it made last year by deciding not to open accession negotiations with turkey. indeed, in many member states today there are different sounds than last year. i am thinking in particular of the french government as the fatal 3rd october approaches. the arrogance with which ankara has arrogantly refused to make any effort in the last year in the field of human rights - i am referring to the recognition of the armenian genocide, the recent outrageous accusation against the turkish writer pamuk on the language rights of the kurdish minority, etc. - proves how turkey and its culture remain incompatible with our european values. then there was the comedy of the so-called ankara protocol, whereby the turkish government continues to stubbornly refuse to recognise another eu member state, cyprus. my colleagues dominique de villepin and angela merkel and so many others are right. in this case, turkey is not one of them. i hope that this parliament will give a signal in that regard.
madam president, i am shocked by the lightness of the commission in its dialogue with the churches and non-confessional associations. firstly, it is true that the commission has repeatedly forgotten to invite the european humanist federation to this dialogue, but it has reserved the opportunity to invite the church of scientology, which is listed as a sect in various european countries, instead. what are the criteria for establishing this dialogue? are cults now allowed? what topics are discussed? i ask for complete transparency in this regard. and beyond the dialogue, there is now funding. let me get back to the wyd. i can't believe my eyes. it's really the last miracle of john paul ii. the european parliament's vote against the financing of the wyd has now been changed into a vote in favour, following a dubious legal trick by the commission. it's stronger than the wedding of canna. but who are we kidding? at first they said, "don't worry, the pope will pay for his own trip". and even more reassuring: "europe does not finance the hosts but only the milk of the participants". we've become the vatican's milk cow. but more seriously, madam president, i would remind the commission, with all the respect i have for young people who have come to cologne in search of spirituality and hope, that religion does not have a monopoly on this questioning. secularism asks exactly the same questions: these are the questions of our civilization. that is why i propose that the 2006 budget includes funding for meetings on the theme 'secularism and humanism in a network of european cities'.
the commission has already given its support to the european list, to the european criteria, so that you can act quickly if something goes wrong. but let's look at the rules we have: the directive on controls on aircraft from third countries is only one year old, it was adopted last year, it has yet to come into force. the agency's only three years old. and the proposals you are making now should have been settled then. the commission has already taken up a great many points in its proposals. it was not wanted, and "it" was usually the member states. so you will not have any difficulty in asking us to give the agency a greater role and to give the union, and in particular the commission, a greater role. it is not politically correct at this stage to say that member states should subordinate their national approach to the coordination and control of the european commission and the european aviation agency. but in the interests of the citizens, we must always say that again. i think that you in the european parliament will not have any difficulty with that position, but i hope that the member states will be more accommodating this time. i hope that the proposals mentioned by mr de veyrac will also be adopted by the council before the end of this year and that we will not have to wait another seven years, as with the safa directive, which was submitted in 1997 and adopted only in 2004. we can't have that this time! it is urgent that we have that blacklist and all the criteria before the end of this year.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking your rapporteur, mrs jöns, and the committee on employment and social affairs for their excellent work, and the rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, mrs figueiredo. the future progress programme will play a decisive role in the development of social europe. in this context, it aims to bring together the four community action programmes on which the implementation of the social policy agenda up to 2006 is based, as well as a series of budget lines which relate to working conditions. the proposed approach will help to simplify the instruments, both legally and in terms of their management, and to streamline the budgetary structure. it will also enhance the clarity, visibility, consistency and homogeneity of the instruments and avoid overlaps. the commission has always been very keen to see that the revised text preserves this simplification, this rationalization. this was the case with the original proposal and the majority of the amendments which the european parliament has been so willing to suggest also go in this direction. i would be happy, mr president, to hear parliament's comments, again as the substitute for mr špidla, who was selected by the eu-china summit.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs jöns on her excellent report on progress. i am also pleased with the quality of the debates we have had in committee and the very interesting compromise amendments, of which i would like to take the following specifically. i think there are some interesting changes to the commission's text, particularly as regards the role of parliament itself. it must be admitted, commissioner, that the commission's original text treated us a little too lightly in terms of evaluations for a programme which, after all, covers seven years (2007-2013). i think it is interesting to recall what the commission proposed, as regards the role of parliament, namely simply to send parliament an ex post evaluation of the whole programme, carried out by the commission one year after its completion. i think that the proposals put forward by the commission are in line with the need for parliament to intervene directly and throughout the seven-year period covered by such an important programme, they are particularly acceptable to the commission as well. secondly, mrs jöns drew attention, through compromise amendments, to the particularly important role of non-governmental organisations and social organisations. it will be recognized that, from a national and transnational point of view, these organizations play a particularly important role in the specialised networks which they have at union level. it is therefore normal that they should be involved in the design, implementation and monitoring of the programme. it is also clear that the promotion of direct exchanges of experience can lead to a better knowledge of the specificities of national realities; this is the only way in which the exchange of ideas on strategies, good practices and innovative strategic approaches will bear fruit and give evaluations the necessary scientific quality. a final word on the budgetary and financial aspects, since this is the nerve of the war. it should be remembered that the amount of eur 628 million proposed by the commission is much lower than the amount recommended in the böge report on the financial and budgetary envelope for 2007-13. i would particularly like to stress that the success of the progress programme depends essentially on the amount of money allocated to it and it is clear that the amount proposed by the commission is not acceptable in any way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the course of the year. but the issue papers that the commission's services have prepared in the run-up to the conference on audiovisual policy in liverpool at the end of this month have not given us much hope. firstly, i understand that a new directive should not, of course, stand in the way of the development of a european audiovisual industry. but that should not mean that measures cannot be taken against excessive movements of concentration, whether horizontal or vertical, whether or not they cross borders. the commission has been asked by parliament on several occasions to submit proposals on this subject. everyone knows that this is crucial in the light of the preservation of media pluralism. the commission seems to be taking this a little too lightly, on the grounds that this is a matter for the member states, that is to say, that it will not propose anything, and that is unacceptable to me. there is also a european observatory to monitor the market and collect data. i am sorry, but that is too weak a coffee, too much of a towel to bleed on, and, moreover, totally unnecessary if there are no accompanying enforcement measures. secondly, a word about the position of public service broadcasting. a study commissioned by parliament literally states that the independence of public broadcasting is not at all guaranteed in many member states. the commission considers that public service broadcasting policy is a matter for the member states. of course it is. but i wonder whether we - and by that i mean the commission and parliament - should not dare to think about possible avenues and measures in those cases where national governments have made public broadcasting almost a branch of government policy. allow me to conclude as follows: the minimalist approach that is now emerging leads us straight to american conditions. i think that in this hemisphere, which is beginning to fill up, there are few colleagues who dream of that. time is running out, commissioner, time for action.
madam president, the committee on foreign affairs is concerned about the cuts made by the council in areas which are essential to europe's external influence. natural disasters like the tsunami cannot be mitigated by cutting into politically important lines. this budget reduces the amounts allocated to the european initiative for democracy and human rights and latin america and does not sufficiently finance the neighbourhood policy in meda and towards the eastern countries. we cannot accept that. we strongly suggest that the council should use the flexibility instrument in this respect. moreover, while time is being saved, the number of external representatives of the union is growing impressively, without parliament being informed of the relevance of these appointments. we shall ask the council for further information before we take a decision on this expenditure. finally, we urge the council, as we have done with the commission, to ensure that the budget allocated to the reconstruction of iraq is managed entirely by the united nations and not partially by the world bank trust, as parliament has already asked twice.
madam president, mr szent-iványi and i have tabled an amendment to reduce the amount for cfsp by 3.87%. such a reduction would bring it into line with all the other external action components, which the council has reduced by an average of - you have guessed it - 3.87%. my group does not understand why the council chooses to let external action bear the brunt of the cuts, and points to the inconsistency of reducing the amounts for prevention, stabilisation and democracy-building, while maintaining the amounts for security policy proper. i draw your attention to our amendment, in the hope of provoking the council into giving a serious explanation for these cuts in the external actions appropriation, which are much too drastic. the minister said that the council found that there was still more room for reappropriation, and that is what it has done. with all due respect to the minister, we find this explanation unconvincing. in the absence of any serious justification, i am inclined to believe that these reductions express the half-heartedness of the member states in entrusting the eu with a strong foreign policy of its own, not to mention the absence of clarity on the roles and responsibilities of the commission, the council, the european council and the high representative in these matters.
the commission's vice-president as you know, the commission presented a proposal for a directive on 15 march 2001 to combat environmental offences. the proposal provides in particular that each member state should ensure that certain activities are made criminal when they are carried out, intentionally or through gross negligence, in breach of community legislation. this includes the fraudulent transfrontier shipments of waste mentioned by the honourable member in his question. on 27 january, however, the council adopted a framework decision on the basis of title vi of the treaty on european union instead of this proposal for a directive. the text criminalizes and makes criminal penalties payable for a number of acts which are harmful to the environment, whether committed intentionally or through gross negligence. such conduct includes the illicit disposal, treatment, storage, transport, export or import of waste, including hazardous waste, which causes or is likely to cause death or serious injury to persons. member states were required to adopt the necessary measures to comply with this framework decision by 27 january 2005. the commission is currently examining the national transposition measures brought to its attention by the member states in order to submit a report to the council as required by the framework decision, enabling the council to verify, by 27 january 2006 at the latest, the extent to which the member states have taken the necessary measures to comply with the framework decision. the commission, however, has challenged the legal basis chosen by the council before the court of justice of the european communities, with the support of the european parliament, and is awaiting the judgment which will be delivered shortly, i believe on 13 september. as mr staes points out, on 26 may 2005 the advocate general delivered a very favourable opinion in favour of the commission's position, since mr dámaso ruiz-jarabo colomer suggests that the court should annul the relevant provisions of the framework decision of 27 january 2003. if the court were to follow its advocate general, a new legal instrument, this time community, would have to be adopted for the purpose of protecting the environment through criminal law, including against fraudulent transfrontier shipments of waste.
president, commissioner, i thank the commissioner for his comprehensive and correct chronology of the facts and i think this question is just in time. if the court of justice does indeed rule on 13 september, the commission will have to act quickly. i think we're dealing with a serious crime here. commissioner, you are responsible for justice, you are responsible for police affairs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. i would therefore ask you, as commissioner, to act immediately as soon as a ruling is made and to ensure that we can create a proper legal framework here.
first of all, mr president, i should like to thank our rapporteur, mrs grossetête, for her enthusiasm and persistence in working for the health of all children in the european union. finally, research and development of paediatric medicines is getting the attention it deserves. companies that invest in such research can and should be rewarded for doing so. only this incentive will ensure that they continue to invest in new medicines for children. do not forget that they are also employing thousands of people. a fixed-term supplementary certificate of six months is preferable for a variety of reasons. however, transparency and good agreements are the key words here. we also need to be aware of the implications that a patent extension could have for all the children in the world. in belgium, for example, it was dr janssens who voluntarily made his antifungal product sporanox available to the developing countries. but now that janssens pharmaceuticals has been acquired, the question is whether the new owners will follow the same policy. in addition to the attention paid to research, the public authorities must of course continue to guarantee access to medicines. i'll give you an example. in belgium, the producer of rilatine unilaterally raised the price of a pack of pills from €2.60 to the level of the european reference price of €6.52. the added cost to the parents of a child with adhd is enormous, especially when you know that there are children who need a few boxes a day. the pharmaceutical industry can and must therefore be encouraged in the field of research, but at the same time it must not forget the people who have to pay for these medicines. i have one more question for the commissioner: i am told that products which do not have a supplementary certificate, including certain aids medicines, could not be granted an additional period if the research is carried out during the period of patent protection. can the commissioner confirm that and if so, can it be changed?
mr president, i would like to thank mrs grossetête for adopting the same philosophy as that which prevailed for rare diseases: mobilization against the injustice suffered by certain patients, in this case children. recently, the belgian society of pediatrics sounded the alarm: 50% of the medicines prescribed for children and almost 90% of those used in intensive care are not approved for pediatric use. clearly, this regulation is urgent, research and development is expensive and we must support the effort that will be required of the pharmaceutical companies, and therefore also support the fixed period of six months during which they will not be subject to competition from the sector. at the same time, we must encourage low-cost paediatric research, the six-year review clause, the mice programme for paediatric research and, crucially when it comes to children, measures to avoid unnecessary duplication of trials meeting this requirement. it is this delicate balance that we must safeguard tomorrow when we vote, a balance which meets the expectations of paediatricians, families and millions of young patients in europe.
mr president, there is no question that this proposal for a directive contains good points, but as other members have said, i think we are paying too high a price. i have listened to everyone, but i think that this parliament must above all be able to strike a balance between the interests of patients, the interests of the public authorities and the interests of pharmaceutical companies. the difference with the united states, mrs grossetête, is that we have a good social security system which must also be balanced. those who are calling for six months of protection here in parliament are the same people i hear most often in my own country saying that the social security budget must be kept under control, that it must be saved. but to balance that budget, everyone must do their part, including the pharmaceutical industry. the extension of six months leads, in our view, to an unbalanced additional cost. that is why i continue to support the amendments tabled by mrs corbey.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: after the cowardly attacks in london, it must be clear to everyone that now more than ever is the time for tough and comprehensive measures against the trojan horse of islamic extremism in our society. i therefore strongly support a number of recent proposals and statements made in the wake of the events in london. the french minister of the interior, nicolas sarkozy, is right when he proposes to tighten up the controls on mosques. the commission has also been very careful to ensure that the council does not adopt a position which is not in line with the council's position. "we need to know what is happening in every mosque and we need to be there and collect information where extremist ideas are being preached". the british government will expel those who call for holy war, who call for violence and who condone acts of terror. finally, such a measure is being taken and it is therefore recommended that the other member states follow britain in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when the prime minister of australia, john howard, a few days ago said that he was in favour of infiltrating muslim schools and mosques, he made it clear in one breath that his government has no intention of interfering with freedom of religion. he did, however, make the obvious point that his government has a right to know which sections of the muslim community support or incite violence. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the crux of the matter. our open society has the right to defend itself against its enemies. freedom of religion can never be a license to undermine our european society here on european soil. in this sense, i would like to commend the courage of the czech president, václav klaus, who is the only head of state or government in the european union who dares to draw the connection between islamic bombings on the one hand and multiculturalism on the other, in which our own values are being completely relativized. we must therefore, as europeans, put an end to the lax immigration policy which is bringing in 10,000 people every year who do not want to conform to our laws, our standards and our values. when a country like spain regularizes 700,000 illegal aliens in one fell swoop, it is a reward for lawlessness and an incentive for new waves of illegal immigration. it is high time that we reviewed a number of international conventions and evaluated the extent to which they should be adapted to today's needs. i am thinking, for example, of the geneva convention on refugees, which dates back to 1952, in the height of the cold war, a period when we were confronted with europeans fleeing communist dictatorships. the same applies to the european convention on human rights, which also needs urgent revision. the aim is not to question the basic ideas of these conventions, but to ensure that they are no longer abused by people with bad intentions.
mr president-in-office of the council, i should like to say at the outset that i support the measures proposed by the british presidency to combat the threat and the acts of terrorism. you mustn't miss your target. it is not the measures you propose to combat terrorism that constitute a threat, but terrorism itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of security. the retention of data relating to telephone and internet communications has already proved its usefulness and should be encouraged, provided that it has a legal basis, that the cost issue is well taken into account and that the retention period and the conditions of use - this is essential - are specified. we expect clear answers and new proposals to meet the objections raised by parliament. urgent decisions, very urgent decisions, involving parliament and the commission, are urgently needed. in addition, all available technical means, such as surveillance cameras and biometric elements to be included on identity documents, must be able to be used. finally, i would like to emphasize that the exchange of information between states, international cooperation, as you have said, is an essential element. there is no need to make any new proposals in this respect. our parliament has voted almost unanimously on three reports which i had the honour of presenting with a view to promoting such exchanges. i therefore encourage the british presidency to conclude clearly with our support and endorsement. i also ask him to show political will to improve cooperation in the field of intelligence, which is the main means of preventive action. on the ethical and political level, we must also get sincere muslims to condemn clearly, publicly, unreservedly, the preachers of violence and for the responsible authorities to prosecute them and remove them without weakness. there are behaviours, statements, and principled arguments which are incompatible with our conception of freedom, human rights and public peace. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer observe three minutes of silence in memory of the victims of terrorist acts without reacting, hoping that this will be enough to prevent terrorists from acting without the alibis they invoke.
mr president, as i speak, the tunisian league for human rights is surrounded by the army. i ask you to take note of this and take immediate action. i know it's not an emergency today, but there are emergencies that don't wait until thursday afternoon. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step. it has struck the right balance in its report. i therefore strongly support the extension of the patent protection of paediatric medicinal products for a fixed period of six months. the alternatives (two plus four, three plus three, etc.) are practically impracticable, require a great deal of bureaucracy and risk neutralizing the positive incentive that this law gives to scientific research.
mr president, is the withdrawal from the gaza strip to be seen as the prerequisite for peace in the middle east or not? i choose to believe it even though i know that a glass half full can be considered half empty. i therefore welcome this withdrawal from gaza as a symbol that no settlement is immovable and that all settlements can be dismantled in the future. i also choose to believe that the wall, which the israeli authority has always declared to be temporary, will one day fall. i choose to believe that no extremist group will undermine this fragile hope for peace by a terrorist attack and, above all, that no authority will take advantage of an isolated criminal behaviour to exercise collective reprisals that destroy any hope for peace. the withdrawal from gaza was difficult. the israeli government has carried it out with determination and courage and the palestinian authority with great maturity. but the glass is also half empty. the continuation of settlement in the west bank is incompatible with the idea of lasting peace, as is the encirclement of east jerusalem and its israeli gnawing at it. the possible isolation of gaza, overcrowded and cut off from any possible economic development, makes it a real powder keg. that is why i insist that europe, while paying tribute to those who have successfully secured this disengagement, should not be blind to these worrying signs and continue to press for gaza to have port and air gateways and access to the west bank and egypt so as not to close itself off to its inhabitants as a trap, for international law and humanitarian law to be regularly assessed and respected in the region, for the road map to be relaunched. europe has always condemned terrorism and violence in favour of political negotiation and international law. it is not useless, even if progress is slow, to repeat tirelessly what our commitments are in the middle east.
mr president, i would like to thank minister alexander for their presence this afternoon, as well as commissioner verheugen, who i left in the plenary yesterday evening at 11.47 p.m. and who is the commissioner for the whole of this strasbourg session. more seriously now, in january, the high representative mr. solana, spoke to us about a window of opportunity, better, an avenue of hope, after a series of changes that have occurred in the region, including of course, the election of mahmoud abbas as president and his courageous talk about the demilitarization of the intifada. the follow-up has not been unfair, which has just resulted, as we know, in the disengagement of the gaza strip. whatever our views on this withdrawal, whatever our differences, and they exist on this issue, we can only congratulate the israeli officials on the way they have conducted this operation; it is a human tragedy for the families involved, a heartbreak for the soldiers and a crucial test for israeli society as a whole, which some people are dishonestly underestimating. no violence, no casualties, no civil war either, it is a success that also belongs to the palestinian authority. mahmoud abbas has spared no effort to facilitate the operations and especially to prevent any terrorist attack during the entire period of disengagement. and now, you tell me, what is to be done? it is about turning this military success into political success, catalyzing this positive energy to get back on track, because the withdrawal from gaza can only be the beginning of a process. the major challenges facing both ariel sharon and mahmoud abbas are enormous: the end of settlements, more substantial withdrawals, especially on the israeli side, and of course the disarmament of terrorist organizations for the palestinian leader. after the destruction of a building in gaza on monday and the assassination of his security adviser this morning, abu mazen just a few hours ago demanded a plan to disarm hamas in gaza. we must give him the means to continue; we all know that the battle is being fought between the palestinian authority and hamas for control of gaza, and that the 60 million euros which have just been released, the commissioner said, will be a crucial strategic support for the palestinian leader. we thank the commission, we rely on it and we will be particularly vigilant, i should like to say, to ensure that strict controls reassure the european taxpayers as to the allocation of this large sum. a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time of war, and a time of peace. not i, but the ecclesiastes. i was talking about hope earlier, not angelica. however, we are now living in a very special moment, a momentum, said mr solana, and we would like to see the parties concerned seize it with our help to move forward on this road to peace.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, the cornillet report certainly contains a lot of good points, for example when it highlights the dark side of certain forms of tourism, such as the sexual exploitation of children in certain tourist destinations or the exploitation of real estate by indigenous and often underserved populations. however, i am missing an important point in this report and that is a clear statement on tourism to countries where human rights are being seriously violated and where it would make sense for the european union to consider imposing an embargo to increase pressure on the countries concerned. an example of this was given a few months ago by mr deva, who, in connection with the paradise island group of the seychelles, noted that tourists there pay $300 a night and more for a hotel room, while the local population is forced to work as slaves for a few dollars a night for the local potentate and his court entourage. i am thinking, for example, of the communist dictatorship in cuba, to which this report refers cautiously, but where opponents disappear in prison for months and years without any trial, while the regime of an old and senile criminal against humanity indulges in the slogans of decadent western europeans. these are also sad aspects of tourism that deserve our attention.
president. - mr bowis has indeed written an excellent report which deserves our full support. i think he is right to insist that the european commission's action to combat hiv/aids, tb and malaria be extended to other neglected diseases. it seems that there is little awareness that african sleeping sickness, leishmaniasis and dengue fever, among others, are major threats to the health of many people in the poorest countries. if there are medicines available here, their quality is very questionable or they are completely out of date. there is almost no research and development activity in these neglected diseases. the pharmaceutical industry is particularly interested in profitable sales and invests only when there are insufficient incentives. tax credits, innovation awards, pre-qualification assistance, patent purchase commitments are just a few examples of possible policies to stimulate investment. as rapporteur for the regulation which aims to implement the who decision on intellectual property rights (trips) and access to medicines, i hope that the council and parliament will agree very quickly on a text which will allow the immediate application of this important decision in the 25 member states. the commission and the member states should also actively support the implementation of the doha declaration and oppose any action by the who member states to undermine these commitments. but in the fight against the important and neglected diseases, african leaders themselves must also take responsibility. it is important that they too make health care a priority. in this connection, it is irresponsible for certain african governments to impose a sales or import tax on medicines, making them unaffordable for the poor. the international community will, however, have to complement public and private investment at national level with long-term financial support. as a european parliament we must continue to insist consistently that 35% of development aid be spent on health and education. only in this way can we restore hope to the tens of thousands of people who are still dying today from diseases that could have been eradicated long ago.
author. mr president, commissioner, if we had had to choose the subjects of our debate today, in relation to the violation of human rights, perhaps we would have chosen tunisia, where human rights defenders were besieged yesterday by tunisian troops. the problem of tunisia raises the question of the seriousness with which human rights are treated in our association agreements. that is why we wanted this resolution on syria. we want syria to open up and become a democracy. we have been calling for months for the cases of political prisoners like riad seif and mamum al-humsi to be taken seriously. we, mrs béatrice patrie and myself, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, sent letters to the president of parliament, mr borrell, in august, calling for the release of these two political prisoners who have already served two thirds of their sentences. these are former parliamentarians who are in poor physical condition. those letters went unanswered. we want the next association agreement with syria to make it clear that human rights are a condition on which we will not compromise. we do not want to isolate syria. it is a country which we regard as a friend, which must become democratic, which we can help, but for the moment we would like to send the following message to the syrian government: please, now that we are voting on this association agreement, take this message seriously, do not think that we will have to make resolutions every time to finally start a constructive dialogue with syria on human rights, in particular with the subcommittee on human rights which we are asking you to set up.
mr president, there is an oral amendment to recital e: when we speak of 'riad al-hamood, civil society activist', we should specify 'kurdish' before 'civil society activist'.
today, mr president, is european day of languages, a celebration of the linguistic diversity which is part of our cultural heritage and an enriching factor for our society. as a little girl, i learned a proverb that said, "as many languages as one speaks, so many times one is a man". the commission's website, where commissioner figel' is giving a statement, shows that this saying is also known. that should encourage us in this parliament to give maximum support to good programmes which promote the learning of languages among as many people as possible. but we as a parliament must also realise, mr president, that respect for internal rules on linguistic diversity is an expression of respect for every human being and contributes to the democratic functioning of our institution. i therefore think it important, mr president, to ask you today, even though there is not much time, to pay particular attention to two points. firstly, we must continue to make every effort to ensure that language teaching continues to be an opportunity for all those who work in our house, members and officials, and secondly, you must encourage our officials to continue to respect our internal language rules to the letter and to the spirit. we must not, mr president, follow the example set by the council, given that ... (the speaker is interrupted by the president).
mr president, the geneva refugee convention and, indeed, the additional protocol of 1967 - we must understand this - were originally drawn up to provide for the reception of european political refugees from the communist dictatorships of the former eastern bloc. it is therefore obvious that these instruments are totally unsuitable today to provide an answer to the current asylum problems, in particular to the fact that hundreds of thousands and hundreds of thousands of economic fortune seekers from all over the world are coming to europe to seek refuge and prosperity. it is therefore good and wise that a common european refugee policy should also seek to address this problem, and i am quite happy to see a list of safe countries, even if this is only a first step and even if, in a well-understood respect for subsidiarity, it should be left to the individual member states to use additional lists. but again, this can only be a first step. the real solution to the problems will only come when we have the courage to decide that the reception of asylum seekers should take place on the continent, preferably in the region of origin of the asylum seeker himself and therefore no longer in europe. and, contrary to what has been said here, it must be in closed and very strictly controlled centres. only those who are recognised as genuine refugees after a rigorous and proper examination can be accepted in third countries, possibly also within the european union. this is the only way to drastically reduce the number of fraudulent asylum applications and to combat human trafficking. moreover, this is the only way to reconcile our citizens, whom we represent here, with the need to take in genuine asylum seekers in our own countries. because, unfortunately, the concept of asylum has rightly become synonymous with fraud and social fraud in our countries today, for which we can indeed have a human understanding but for which we must not be politically co-responsible or complicit. however, the political will and courage to pursue such a decisive and necessary policy, especially with all that it entails, such as denying development aid to countries which refuse to conclude readmission agreements for asylum fraudsters, are still lacking. the present report is unfortunately an illustration of this political reluctance, because it further weakens the council's proposals, which are good and timid, and for these reasons we regret that we cannot approve this report in the near future.
the introduction of a list of safe countries is a good step towards a common minimum policy for managing the flow of refugees to europe. i say minimum policy, because the final decision on the recognition and admission of political refugees must still be taken by the member states. it is therefore necessary that the member states should have the right and the possibility to use their own lists in addition to the european list of safe countries. the rapporteur, however, expressly refuses to accept this possibility. the report has in fact one purpose, and that is to undermine the very principle of the safe countries list, and in those circumstances it will not surprise you that i and my colleagues voted against it.
in writing. i came into contact countless times with refugees from kosovo, chechnya, afghanistan, nepal, russia, uzbekistan and kazakhstan. so i realize these suckers don't come to our continent for their pleasure. behind every parent and child is a story. a story of despair and fear. this draft directive is disturbing and the ultimate proof that the ministers of the interior and justice are playing their own games and do not want to consult the european parliament. they concluded a (bad) political agreement without consulting the ep. this is contrary to the spirit of the treaties. i therefore support amendment no 182 which reserves the right to refer a case to the court of justice to examine the legality of the proposal and its compatibility with fundamental rights. i also support all the amendments which seek to remove the concept of a safe third country from the proposal. this is unacceptable, it places the responsibility of the member states on third countries and inevitably leads to arbitrariness and political manipulation. who decides whether a country is (super) safe? is afghanistan safe after the war? are kazakhstan and uzbekistan - two countries that are crumbling under totalitarian rule - safe countries? some in belgium think so. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
member of the commission. thank you, because it is very nice to know where the question is coming from. the commission forwarded to the european parliament indicative information on the breakdown of cap direct payments by member state, the size of payments, and types of farms in 2000 and 2001. it can be seen from those data that there are great disparities in the size of payments for farmers in many of our member states. since aid applications are made by the farmer, defined as a person whose holding is situated within community territory and who exercises an agricultural activity, the commission does not receive data concerning land ownership or the aristocratic status of the beneficiary. in any case, since it is bound to ensure the confidentiality of these individual data, the commission is not in a position to make available or to publish the names of beneficiaries of aid from the eaggf guarantee section. the reason for the variation in distribution of the direct payments is connected with historical production. since the 1992 cap reform, the original price support policy has been replaced by a policy aiming at greater competitiveness. the shifts in policy have been achieved by the gradual reduction of the eu support prices and compensation for farmers for the consequent revenue loss in the form of direct payments. owing to the fact that those direct payments were first introduced by coupling them mainly to production factors through per hectare payments and reference yields in the arable sector, and to headage in the livestock sector, those farmers with larger farms or greater livestock numbers received more compensation in the form of direct payments. during the debates held on all the different changes to the cap in the 1992 reform and agenda 2000, and again in the discussions on cap reform in 2003, the commission actually proposed a so-called capping of the direct payments to farmers and, as far as i remember, the latest discussions on this issue back in 2003 proposed a cap of eur 300 000 for each beneficiary. at the end of the day, however, the council and the member states rejected this proposal and it is therefore not part of the current cap reform.
i should like to thank the commissioner for her reply. i understand very well that the european commission cannot provide data on beneficiaries, but i think it is important in our common interest that the member states are urged to disclose this information. it makes policy so much more transparent and the common agricultural policy so much easier to defend. secondly, i would like to tell the commissioner that, following the information provided by the uk, the netherlands has now also published the data. it also shows that the bulk of european agricultural subsidies go where they should not go, to large industrial companies such as nestlé and heineken. how long can the commission tolerate this?
member of the commission. when the figures are published, both the direct payment to the farmer and the export refunds to big companies are of course part of these figures. you are quite right that it is not in my hands to publish these figures, because they are not the commission's figures. that is the reason. of course i have noticed that certain member states have decided to publish these figures, among others the countries you named and the country i know best. we are preparing our website, the dg agriculture website, to provide a link to the different member states. that is the only way that we can put 'soft' pressure on the member states to publish these figures.
commissioner, i must say that i am very dissatisfied with your answer. the commission has made transparency one of its strategic objectives for the period 2005-09. commissioner kallas has made it very clear in two speeches, in nottingham and in berlin, that money allocated, for example through agriculture, is taxpayers' money and that citizens should know where that money is going. mr kallas states openly that the member states should make information on the beneficiaries of european funds publicly available. i therefore see a contradiction between your statement here and the statement of mr kallas, your colleague in the european commission. i would like to know, commissioner, if you will help to ensure, as mr kallas wants, that the member states are obliged to make this kind of information public.
- i'm the reporter. i think, mr president, that i have also been given an extra minute and a half by a colleague who cannot be here tonight, so i think i can speak for six and a half minutes and i will start now if you will take these 10 seconds off. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the commission for its proposal, because i think all these railway packages are an important element of transport policy in the union and so is the proposal on passenger rights. if we want to have an open european rail market, then minimum rights for passengers are absolutely necessary to build or maintain people's confidence in the railways. i must say, commissioner, that on a number of points your proposal has been modified by parliament, or at least by the committee on transport. i should like to thank all the members who have taken part in the debate, either individually or in groups, with all the amendments they have tabled, and there have been many, and there may be more to come, but thanks to these efforts, mr commissioner, we are now at least putting forward a proposal which i feel is balanced and well-structured. there is a relationship between the scope of application and the level of demands made. the commission has chosen a small field of application, international rail transport, and a strict set of requirements. parliament has changed that balance somewhat, we have opted for a wide scope, rights for all rail passengers, as in aviation, and the strict basic requirements have been slightly modified in such a way that there is more room for manoeuvre for railway companies, for regional authorities or local authorities. first, a word about the demands. we have stayed as close as possible to the international agreements of cotif; we have amended the commission proposal on a number of points, as regards information for travellers. i do not think it is necessary to give all the information to all the travellers before and during the journey. that would lead to very heavy administrative work, tickets that are a page long and so on, i think that does not make much sense. i think that airlines should be made to give the necessary information to the right passengers. i also do not think that you should force companies to provide information on competitors or other companies if they do not want to do so. if they can be induced to cooperate, so much the better, but i do not think that a company which wants to win over a customer can be forced to include a potential competitor in its information policy. the same applies to tickets, but there must be a distinction - and we make that very clear - between public services, where you have to make very wide tickets available, and commercial, specialised services where you can, in my view, use much narrower or much fewer resources such as the internet alone, which has happened in some cases and could be cheaper. i also think that you cannot force competing airlines to sell each other tickets. you don't do that in aviation, why would you do it for the railroad? i think - and we have also tabled amendments to that effect - that we should encourage railway companies that want to cooperate and we should ensure that they set up a joint reservation system, for example, as some airlines have done. in the case of accidents, when passengers are killed or injured, we think that for faultless liability, so where the railway company has to pay in any case, the same amounts should be used as in the aviation regulation. as far as baggage is concerned, we have adopted cotif, which has a broader definition of baggage, and which also includes other amounts, but we thought it best to do so in this way. then the compensation for delay and outage. we have proposed a simpler system. the commission has made things rather complicated, but if we want to extend the scope to all passengers, we think we need a simpler system of compensation and at the same time a system not only for hourly compensation but also for people who are regularly delayed so that they can also be compensated. a person with a subscription will fall off the boat or the train and we think that is not really allowed. a difficult chapter, which many colleagues have amended, was the chapter on people with reduced mobility. people who are not seeing well, people who are not hearing well, people who are handicapped. we believe that the railway companies must do their utmost and must comply with a number of obligations. we have defined it quite strictly and have more or less followed the commission in this respect. if you've been given advance notice, there's a commitment to the outcome, you have to help the passenger. if the passenger has not made himself known in advance and he volunteers spontaneously, i still think that the railway company should do everything in its power to help the people. i think most railway companies, most railway men, take it as a matter of honour to do that in practice. we're setting up what i think is a minimum requirement. i think we should encourage the railway companies to do as much as possible for people who are less able to find their way around a station and that we can also make high demands but we cannot ask for everything. we should not ask railway companies to do impossible things, but we should encourage them, with every renovation, every renovation, every new purchase, to ensure that the new material and the new building are adapted to the needs of the present. there is a very great burden from the past, i will say, on the railway companies, but they have to be gradually brought to bear to improve it. we must have a complaints service, we must not overdo it in the language regime. i've simplified the proposal in terms of the consequential damages i've eliminated. annual quality reports, i think that's redundant. we must have a more flexible system where there is room for initiative, for wider application, for commercial initiatives by railway companies who want to do so, for regional initiatives. so we can go beyond what we are asking for, but, and i think that is essential in our position as a parliament, we believe that these rights should apply to all passengers and not just to an elite, to the 5% who travel internationally, but to everyone who takes a train. that is true for aviation, there is no reason why it should not be true for rail. we are now discussing this with the council, and as far as i know, if my information is correct, it is a difficult point in the council to make it apply to all passengers. i would like to say to the council representative that this will be one of the points for which i will fight to the last breath as rapporteur and i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that i will find you all by my side. a final sentence, mr president, i would like to say to the council as my two previous colleagues have said, this is a package, do not take it apart, treat it as you wish, but come back with a whole and bring it back to us with common positions, which we can then deal with jointly in second reading. this is a set, please keep it together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank him for the excellent cooperation, and i think we have succeeded in drawing up good compromise proposals on the most important aspects. it is good that the exercise we have done for air passengers is now being applied to train passengers and indeed to all train passengers, including national rail transport. our group considers it important that we have not only drawn up a general compensation scheme for longer delays of 1 hour, but also for repeated short delays, so that the companies are encouraged to work more efficiently and more punctually, and in this way we can also encourage new people to take the train. i think that's our goal after all. now, about the assistance for people with reduced mobility. we have tabled two additional amendments to that effect. firstly, disabled people should not be asked for assistance 48 hours in advance, but 24 hours. i think that is very reasonable and i ask for your support. secondly, that the training of railway staff should also take account of this aspect of their work. we continue to believe that it is important for rail passengers to have easy access to a ticket, whether at a station ticket office or at a machine. and if there's no vending machine, on the train itself. the rapporteur now wants to make exceptions for cases where there is compulsory reservation of seats, which i can understand, but also to prevent cases of fraud. i am also against fraud, but i fear that if we follow you we will be dealing with an empty box and we cannot approve this. the jarzembowski report is now before us. i am a little surprised at the ease with which a majority of my colleagues in the committee on transport, without much study, want to speed up the european commission and free up the whole railway landscape by 2012. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the safety of railway vehicles. without even asking whether that is the miracle drug that enables us to attract more train travellers. in certain sectors, market liberalization has proved to be a good thing. i think we should recognize that, but in the public transport sector i think it's different because it's not a commercial sector and we also want to achieve other objectives than profitability or profit. for example, environmental objectives or human mobility. measures other than market liberalisation have a much greater impact on the number of travellers than is often assumed. i will give the example of belgium, where we saw a 7% increase in the number of passengers in 2003 and a 6% increase in 2004, and the latter figures are also showing very good progress. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for the record, i have no problem with the liberalisation of international passenger transport as such. the thalys, that other competitors are coming, no problem but what is important is that we have watertight guarantees that all member states can build a good public service, also in the future; so we would have been better off with a package of liberalisation on the one hand and public services on the other than the package that is now before us.
mr president, all the indications are that turkey must join at all costs, but as the eu-turkey civic commission has recently shown, turkey does not meet the copenhagen criteria, contrary to what the commission and the council may claim. but we know very well what is happening. commissioner rehn has just referred to the persecution of the writer orhan pamuk and has repeatedly expressed his concern, but when it comes down to it, nothing happens. when will turkey have to recognise all the member states? what is the timing for the opening of turkish airports and seaports? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's the salamite technique. you make decisions in chunks, and before you know it, you're faced with a fait accompli. the only argument we hear before turkey's accession is the promise made to the turks. what about the promise that turkey must meet the conditions? when is the public asked what it thinks about the accession of a non-european country which does not belong to the european union?
mr president, the socialists have always supported the opening of negotiations with turkey with a clear view to its accession. but i would like to say to mr erdogan: frankly, you have not helped us with your unilateral statements at the signing of the ankara protocol. you know, there are three groups in this parliament, and we saw that today. there are those who do not want turkey and make it clear and who have rubbed their hands, who have even waved coffins. there is a second group: those who resign themselves to a marriage of reason, saying to themselves that after all, this is a big country, it is a crossroads for energy resources, it has water, it is a friend of the united states, it was right during the iraq war by not getting involved and, after all, there are still 71 opportunities for each country to oppose its veto during the negotiations. and there's a third group, and this third group, which i belong to, believes in this project. but as a genuine political and open project towards a europe which is tolerant, pluralistic and open to diversity. and it's not a funeral, but this huge project, which is a crazy bet that we have to convince the voters, has two aspects. the first is that we will not compromise on cyprus, the armenian question, the rights of the kurds or the rights of women. it's a marriage of love we want and, in love, who loves well, punishes well. we want this democracy, we want it very much. but there is a second aspect, which is even more difficult to deal with. will we, europe, be able to change without betraying our social model? will we be able to welcome turkey, to deepen the institutions, to vote on the constitutional treaty but also to show solidarity with this country which, for all its size, is no less poor at the moment? that's an open question. but if we're going to negotiate, we have to remember that in a marriage, there are two partners, and each of them has a responsibility.
president, a few days ago the flemish newspaper de standaard wrote that turkey's membership of the eu had been decided long ago and that an anonymous senior official of the european union had told the newspaper that the so-called open end of the negotiations was just window dressing and, i quote, 'that open end is there only to be able to persuade a critical opinion that nothing has been decided definitively'. that pretty much says it all. i think that the turkey dossier is the most striking and politically terrifying illustration of the fact that the european union is putting the normal democratic decision-making processes out of play and is driving decisions down the throats of the citizens, if necessary with all the dirty tricks of the "forum", with lies and with deception as in the case of turkey. but make no mistake, the last word has not yet been said and our opposition to the accession of islamic turkey to the european union will only grow stronger and more vehement and will be followed even more by the european citizens than it is already the case today.
in writing. at the moment there is a struggle in turkey between reformist families and traditionalists. the current prime minister and the foreign minister are in the first camp. they deserve all our support. the debate on the opening of negotiations has been fuelled by political opportunism in recent times, with many, as my group's chairman, mr cohn-bendit, has said, riding a wave of latent racism. the european union must not be allowed to take any more stringent measures than the heads of government agreed to in december, which is unfair and sends a negative signal to the turkish people that europe does not want turkey. those who make the recognition of cyprus a condition for negotiations forget that a swift recognition of cyprus by turkey would mean the end of kofi annan's attempts to reach a new round of negotiations on a final solution to the partition of the island. the union must support the reformers, demand the correct implementation of the customs protocol and push for further refinement of the criminal code. the opening of negotiations will move turkey further towards a secular state in which human and peoples' rights are fully and effectively respected. the religious minorities, kurds and alawites, will be better off in a turkey which is part of the union than in a turkey which turns its back on our continent.
in writing. i voted against this proposal to oblige european member states to open up all rail networks to private companies by 2012. first, a comprehensive evaluation of the experience of rail liberalisation in the various member states should be carried out. both the commission proposal and the jarzembowski report are premature and ill-founded. the proposed directive does not provide for binding agreements in the field of quality of service, safety or environmental requirements. furthermore, all the countries of the european union impose the same form of railway liberalization, while the starting point and the way the railway is used differ greatly from one country to another. it is therefore necessary to identify first which forms of railway liberalization have worked in the past and which have not. secondly, is there any european added value to the way in which member states can make their national railways more efficient, customer-oriented and environmentally friendly in the future? perhaps after an evaluation of the situation in the different member states it should be decided that this issue can best be tackled at national level, as each situation is unique. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
the commissioner, in order to deal with the direct consequences of the increase in oil prices, it is not enough to come up with long-term solutions alone. we expect the commission to play a coordinating and guiding role, also in the short term. the victims of the high oil prices are the people, and especially the weakest, the lowest income groups. it is up to each country to take measures to deal with these problems, but the european commission could take on the coordination of measures, for example by allowing a lower vat within its powers. the commission is also sceptical about aid to sectors affected by the high oil price, and we are thinking in particular of the transport sector, but also of the fisheries sector. here too the commission could play an important coordinating role in the transition to energy-efficient equipment. many fishermen, commissioner, do not have the financial resources to cover these costs and i would therefore ask you to increase the aid to make this switch.
president, commissioner, expensive oil is of course the best incentive for the public authorities, industry and consumers to look for alternatives and we of course fully support the initiatives you have developed over the past few weeks. in the long run all this is very good for us, but in the short term - as has already been said here this afternoon - countless families, single people, the elderly, young people, are in danger of being literally left out in the cold in the coming months because, commissioner, they simply cannot pay their heating bills. i fear that the commission, with its consistent but also hard-line approach, is not paying enough attention to this. in the meantime, various national governments are taking various measures, although in a piecemeal manner. the belgian government, for example, is going to pay back a portion of the fuel oil to ease the pain, but of course such interventions do not solve the imminent, acute heating problems of many, many people. that is why i am calling on you to do something at least in the short term - a temporary reduction in vat on domestic fuel oil, perhaps that is not such a bad idea after all. i know you do not support it, but it is a social measure, commissioner. in the slightly longer term, you might also be able to work with a kind of bandwidth, and i am not referring to a minimum rate only, but also to a maximum rate. so there is a lower limit and an upper limit within which the member states should move. we can do something about the large, ridiculous price differences between member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so there is certainly room for structural action, at least in the short term. mr commissioner, and i conclude, mr president, you must of course look after the interests of the european union in the long term, but you could still make a very nice gesture in the short term, especially for all those vulnerable families who are likely to be in trouble in the coming weeks.
president. - mr machin, that was general de gaulle speaking of the united nations. today, as the 60th anniversary of the un seems to have been turned into a performance of shakespeare's much ado about nothing, we may well ask whether the french head of state would not simply repeat his once-winged words today? indeed, for weeks negotiations were held over a 35-page document which, in the end, let's call a spade a spade, is little more than a vague statement of intent. the weakness of the un is once again clearly demonstrated 60 years after its creation. the un commission on human rights, so discredited by allowing countries such as cuba, zimbabwe and sudan to be part of it, is being replaced by a human rights council. the text, however, does not say anything about the composition of this new institution or about measures to exclude such countries. while all countries rejected terrorism, they did not agree on the definition of terrorism. nor was there consensus on the principles of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and last but not least was there a lack of necessary reform of the security council, which was again postponed. in this context, it is also truly hallucinatory, to give just one example, that japan is financing 19% of the cost of un peacekeeping operations and is not even involved in any decision-making on these matters. a more democratic answer is different, one might say.
i have been trying for some time to understand why the worrying trend in textile dumping from china has not been detected earlier. however, this development was clearly derived from the previously liberalised product categories. the measures taken on 5 september to release the quotas, and in particular the removal of textile products blocked in european ports, are, if you will excuse me, a game of panic football. the memorandum of understanding which commissioner mandelson concluded with china in june, imposing quantitative restrictions on imports of ten product categories, is clearly very badly prepared. how else can it be explained that, barely two months later, the quotas for 2005 have already been used up? now the blocked goods were released in a hurry, ignoring the june agreement and all the confusion that has been created by this for producers, traders, customers and consumers in the textile sector. i have a few very specific questions, commissioner. how do we move this forward? how can the existing uncertainty and confusion be removed in a sector which is already in such difficulty? what is the view now on the further implementation of the memorandum of understanding of june? how will the chinese imports be monitored in the coming months? and what if, in a few weeks, another suit of clothes is stuck in european ports? what about the quotas for the next few years? the latest agreement with china therefore clearly raises many more questions than it answers, and i fear, commissioner, that the commission does not have those answers either. i hope you can convince me otherwise.
the fact that we are raising the very serious difficulties faced by our companies in the face of chinese competition has nothing to do with our fear of fair competition or our possible criticism of the free market. and it is certainly true, and it must be said, that our consumers are benefiting to a large extent from price reductions and that european companies see growth opportunities in the chinese market. but the problem remains. china is a communist dictatorship with a state-run economy and the game of fair competition is not being played there. more than half of chinese industry is state-owned and receives financing without interest and without any real obligation to repay. the value of the chinese currency is kept artificially low. that and many other unreasonable factors - i am thinking of the existence of forced labour, i am thinking of the existence of inhuman working conditions - all of which lead to our markets being flooded with chinese finished products at a price at which our own companies can sometimes barely afford to buy the raw materials. again, this is not an advocacy against the free market and not an advocacy against free competition. but europe has a duty to protect its companies and to ensure fair competition, and that is unfortunately no longer the case at the moment. the commission's mismanagement of the textile dossier is what really gives us the worst fear for the future.
mr president, much has been said in this house recently about trade relations with china, and i shall therefore confine myself today to one aspect, namely counterfeiting and piracy. commissioner mandelson has admitted that this issue was removed from the agenda at the start of the latest trade talks with the european union under pressure from china. this is strange, because under the wto rules the european commission has the right to take safeguard measures in cases of unfair competition or distortion of competition. this is clearly the case with respect to intellectual property. every year in europe between 100 and 200 000 jobs are lost to the increase in counterfeiting and piracy. this summer, more than 2,500 counterfeit textiles were seized in one hour during a single operation on the belgian coast on one morning. 70% of it came from china. our creativity and innovation is almost the last trump card in the unequal battle against competition from the east. it is high time that the commission became aware of this and finally addressed the problem of illegal counterfeiting to the chinese authorities.
president. - mr president, it is always very unpleasant to have to deal with an emergency which concerns a country with which we have an association agreement. this is the case with tunisia and i would say that in many respects this association agreement is very fruitful. nevertheless, certain events have taken place recently, which my friends in my party and in other parties will certainly describe, and which force us to consider this resolution. and the first thing i would ask tunisia to do, without going into the substantive debate on today's problem, is to set up and make operational as soon as possible its subcommittee on human rights between tunisia and the european union, which would perhaps enable us to deal with the individual and collective cases we encounter in this resolution without having to go through an emergency. the second and not least problem we have with tunisia is the blocking of funds allocated to the tunisian league for human rights, blocking of funds which prevents projects from being realized today; we urge in this resolution that these funds be released. the third problem is the one that is being discussed here, the case of harassment, which is being targeted at organizations such as the tunisian league for human rights, the association of magistrates, the journalists' union, which are prevented from functioning properly. this is unacceptable for a country with which we have such valid agreements, for a country which also has social security, which is experiencing an increase in the life expectancy of its inhabitants, which has played a very prominent role in the field of education and health, and where equality between men and women is a reality. so there is a paradox here and we really hope that this resolution will lead tunisia not to regard human rights and the activities of human rights defenders as an attack on state security. the concept of undermining the security of the state is a very flexible one and we really want to start from a good base, but we also want to be very firm in this resolution.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, practically everything has been said about this draft resolution, but i would like to mention here my visit to tunisia ten days ago with the delegation for relations with the maghreb countries, of which i am one of the vice-presidents, during which we met a number of local personalities in the context of this inter-parliamentary relationship. the feeling i have on returning from tunisia is ambiguous, and on the one hand it forces us to consider that tunisia is indeed a relatively advanced country, even very advanced in a whole series of areas, as has been mentioned here, whether in the field of equality between men and women, social security or sickness and disability insurance, that, on the economic level too, there is a certain dynamism, but that, on the other hand, the regime is incapable of accepting the slightest criticism, the slightest challenge to what is being done. what i would like to say here is that we have, as has been said here, important agreements with tunisia, which include chapters on human rights issues, and that we are not able, as the european union - and i am addressing myself in particular to our commissioner - to enforce compliance with these agreements, which have been signed by both sides. i therefore strongly urge our representatives in the country, the representatives of the union, our institutions in general, to exert maximum pressure so that freedom of expression can be a reality in countries like these. it is not enough, and those who officially represent us there are not convincing us of this, and i therefore call on the commissioner and our institutions to support the democrats who are constantly harassed in tunisia.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and why, because the pampering policy towards illegals and of course the successive regularizations have a huge sucking effect on hundreds of thousands and millions of other happiness seekers. it is actually quite ridiculous that louis michel and a number of other spokesmen for the european commission think and say that a policy of restricting legal immigration could solve the problems. it is not because we take in a few dozen or a few hundred or a few thousand doctors or engineers that the immigration of unskilled people from third world countries will be reduced. - no, it's the opposite. no, we need to get to a clear and simple policy. illegality must not be rewarded, but must lead to forced return to the countries of origin. our refugee policy must be based on these three pillars: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the asylum seekers are not treated in the same way as the other asylum seekers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission does not take any action to prevent fraud. we are prepared to show solidarity, but we are no longer prepared to let our continent and our country be flooded by fortune seekers from all over the world, because our duty here is first and foremost to defend our own citizens.
mr president, i have a question for you. what democratic decision-making procedure has been used to elect our chinese colleagues? i would be grateful if you could tell me about it. thank you, sir.
i have had a few experiences in this house, mr president, but i must say that the portas report is one of the most bizarre and dangerous reports ever presented in this house, and that is saying something. the report reinforces the so-called multiculturalism of the european countries by encouraging immigrant children, even second, third and fourth generation, to develop their own language and culture even further in our territory and thus to make even less effort to integrate or assimilate into our society. this is complete madness. this is contrary to the democratic will of the vast majority of our citizens. this can only lead to more difficulties, to the formation of new ghettos, to de facto apartheid and, unfortunately, to violence. i am here to say, together with the new german chancellor, angela merkel, that a multicultural society is unworkable and that foreigners who are legally resident in our territory should be encouraged to assimilate as fully as possible.
first of all, mr president, europe has no business interfering in the internal educational affairs of the member states. if there is one area where the principle of subsidiarity should be applied to the fullest, it is in education policy. secondly, this proposal achieves the exact opposite of what is officially intended. the point is that immigrants should learn the language of the host country. if they do not know or no longer know the language of the country of origin, this should not be a problem for the host country. this proposal is only promoting ghettoization. it's also really incredible that our children should learn arabic, for example. it's the world upside down. the passage in the explanatory statement that immigrant parents should be encouraged to prefer their mother tongue to european languages of professional use is also incredible. the multicultural ideology thus takes precedence over the sense of reality. you'd have to be a communist to think of something so out of this world.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, according to reports in the french newspapers libération and le monde, the human rights situation in cuba is going from bad to worse. marxism is becoming more barbaric as the marxist tyrant who installed it feels his time is coming to an end. some examples: the journalist mario henrique mayo, who was sentenced to 20 years in prison in 2003, twice tried to commit suicide after carving the words "innocent" and "freedom" on his own body with a razor. on 4 october, the journalist victor arroyo, sentenced to 26 years in prison for a crime of opinion, ended his hunger strike at the request of cardinal ortega after falling into a delirium. for 100 other political prisoners, there is no prospect of release, quite the contrary. the moderate opponent, manual cuesta morua, was harassed by assembled supporters of the regime and was subjected to the most heinous racist reproaches. i hope that this parliament will stand as one man against the human rights violations in cuba. it will be a better signal than that of a future european commissioner smoking a cigarette from havana who will ride a harley davidson with fidel castro without opening his mouth about it.
mr president, a few weeks ago nine blind passengers who boarded a ryanair flight to italy in london were asked to take later flights because there were already four disabled people on board. if the company is relying on safety arguments in the event of an emergency evacuation, it seems unacceptable to me to trivialize such discriminatory practices. among the founding values of the european union, there is one of which we should be particularly proud: solidarity with the weakest. attention is paid to the disabled and the handicapped, their accessibility to public buildings and services. it is therefore shocking that a european airline should hide behind a safety argument to discriminate against blind passengers. the truth is that the ultra-low cost no longer allows for special attention to passengers who need help: there is no staff to take care of them. profitability is the only goal pursued, in defiance of all human feeling. this goes against the humanist values of which europe can be proud. i wanted to denounce him publicly.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation is certainly an important step in tackling climate change, because it will lead to a reduction in the use of f-gases anyway, but it is only a first step, so i think it is being put forward quite thoughtfully at the moment. the commission will have to submit an evaluation report within a few years and the important measures now being proposed must also be given the opportunity to be implemented by the sector. in the light of scientific and technological developments, further analyses will be needed to determine whether additional restrictions are feasible. the sector in question is a global industry and where goods must be able to move freely within and outside the eu, each country cannot impose its own rules. we must not allow disparities between the different legislations to create different competitive positions for the operators. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so the mixed legal base proposed by the council is the most appropriate one for me. this is the approach which can stimulate research and development on a large scale. the eu is setting out the guidelines that will ensure the responsible use of f-gases and the sector can develop further research in this area in a creative way. the unilateral imposition on the industry, without any consultation, of additional restrictions which are not feasible at the moment, on applications for which there are insufficient alternatives or for which alternatives are not more energy efficient, taking into account the total environmental cost, and this possibly within the provisions of article 175, is therefore absolutely unacceptable to us and i would like to hear the commission's opinion on this.
president, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of october the romanian prime minister, mr popescu, said that the enormous increase in organised crime in bulgaria threatened to jeopardise the accession of both countries in 2007 and that, by applying the protection clause, this accession would be postponed until 1 january 2008. popescu's statements are now being confirmed by the european commission, which in its report literally states that corruption in both countries, not just in bulgaria, is taking such forms that it threatens the eu's internal market and the programmes financed by the union. the reform of the judiciary and the administration has not brought much progress, and corruption is rampant. bulgaria and romania are european countries which, like the other central and eastern european countries, have the right to join the union. but they must also be ready for accession. we cannot allow countries in which the rule of law does not yet exist. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. certainly not in 2007, but probably not in 2008.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to the 2006 draft budget were essentially centred around three objectives: the fight against terrorism, control of the union's external borders, and the protection of citizens' personal data. in general terms - and i would like to express my thanks to our rapporteur general and my colleagues in the committee on budgets - these amendments have been accepted by the committee on budgets and will hopefully be adopted by the plenary tomorrow. in particular, in the fight against terrorism, we are proposing a substantial increase in the operational capacity of eurojust, at the same time as we are increasing by almost 30% the appropriations for the pilot project, which was requested by our parliament in order to better coordinate the means of preventing and confronting the terrorist threat. we also support the resources requested by the commission to provide a genuine crisis management capacity and we propose to extend the appropriations for aid to victims of terrorist acts to include legal aid. as regards external border control, we propose a substantial increase in the resources allocated to the new frontex agency and we re-establish the payment appropriations originally provided for in the budget for the schengen information system and the visa information system, which payment appropriations had been, quite stupidly, reduced by the council. in the area of data protection, we are holding back part of the appropriations requested by the commission for passenger rights in order to force the commission to honour the commitments it has made to parliament on the modification of the system for transmitting air passenger data to the us authorities. finally, in the motion for a resolution we stress the need to implement a mechanism for the protection of personal data in the third pillar.
in writing. the three fluorinated gases involved here, hfc, pfc and sulphur hexafluoride, contribute to global warming. it is therefore important that the european union should work towards reducing their use, or even banning it under certain conditions (effective alternatives, a precise timetable). i voted for the doyle report for two reasons: first, the efforts already made by industry. the hfcs now being criticized replaced the ozone-depleting cfcs in the 1990s. this is to say that the principle of substituting safer substances for dangerous ones is already a reality! the use of these three gases in applications as varied as refrigeration and air conditioning systems, pharmaceutical aerosols for asthma treatment or fire extinguishers justifies a balanced approach between the well-being of the population and climate protection. finally, i would like to point out that we can effectively combat greenhouse gases without making a 'purely legal' sign! that is why i rejected the simple legal basis of the environment, which would have had only one effect: to split the single market into 25 different legislations. this is not the europe our companies, our employees and our citizens want!
in writing. the bird flu is on the horizon (croatia, russia, united kingdom, germany). what can we learn from a fortnight of crisis management? it is to be welcomed that the member states have taken the necessary emergency measures to avoid the risk of contagion in the union: embargoes on wild birds, the 'national poultry' label, the mass slaughter of chickens, the quarantine of species... however, it is hard not to deplore the lack of coordination between the 25 countries, each playing its own "health" part, when it was to deal with all these risks of pandemics that europe set up a european centre for disease prevention and control in 2003, following the sars crisis. stockholm should be the centre of coordination and health surveillance in europe. it's not! until the member states are willing to give the europe of health a chance, it is essential that we prepare ourselves for the annual migration of wild birds next spring. let us hope that europe will use these six months to develop a vaccine and ensure that the conditions are not right for avian influenza to emerge in the union.
in writing. i voted against the resolution and all the amendments tabled by the greens and the epp. this text is an alibi, an additional piece in a long-term strategy whose only aim is to end european funding for embryonic stem cell research. three targeted attacks in less than nine months. march 2005: the same initiate a resolution on egg trafficking in romania. the only reason was to denounce cloning, including therapeutic cloning, and to demand that the union cut all funding for this research. october 2005: 73 meps write to the president of the commission on behalf of parliament! why would you do that? attacking freedom of research in europe, again, in the name of their convictions which i respect otherwise. we are a few of those who have initiated a response to this letter, and 127 of us have already made it clear to mr barroso that it is unthinkable that we are excluding europe from a crucial part of research. 26 october 2005, third act: same initiators, this resolution as hostage. in a vote of obscurantism, 338 members of the house decided to leave science no chance. another disastrous signal for genomic research and for millions of patients in europe.
mr president, the klamt report, which we have unfortunately just adopted, can best be described as a kind of catalogue of proposals that are alien to the world, a description of ideological leftist concepts that have nothing to do with the real world. apart from the forced emphasis on the so-called benefits of a multicultural society and - incidentally, the reality is quite different in our cities and neighbourhoods affected by multicultural society - what particularly surprises me in this report is the statement that organised legal immigration to europe could help to combat the enormous problems of asylum fraud, smugglers and trafficking in human beings that we are facing. the first is that the people and occupational categories which could be eligible for temporary or permanent legal immigration or for work permits are not the same people and occupational categories which are flooding us with this problem immigration. why should the fight against illegal immigration suddenly be better off, when today only a lack of political will and a lack of political courage make that fight more difficult and therefore prevent the decisive measures which are so necessary in our countries from being taken?
i voted against the klamt report, which contains a series of proposals which are totally contrary to the interests of our own people. it is beginning to look as if the european parliament is specialised in voting on such texts. it is extremely short-sighted to resort again to new economic immigration. we should learn from the mistakes of the past. the integration policy as it has been pursued in most, if not all, member states has largely failed. so attracting new foreigners from outside europe would only make the problem worse. so it's high time we started to realize that from this ivory tower.
in writing. i abstained on article 6 of the klamt report on a community approach to the management of economic migration because i consider that if it is normal to grant the right to vote to european and non-european citizens in local elections, it is much less normal to grant it to non-european citizens in european elections. in local elections, any citizen who has lived in the area for a certain period of time (for example, 5 years, as in belgium) must be able to express his opinion on living conditions, the development of his municipality, the education of his children, etc. i would also like to see this right to vote granted to non-european citizens, as in belgium, provided they take a solemn undertaking to respect the requirements of the constitution and the laws of the host country.
president. - i read on the official website that this european council will be discussing, among other things, measures to improve the security of european citizens. according to the media, the french and spanish prime ministers would even propose at this summit a joint initiative for a major immigration policy in europe. allow me to be concerned about this. the spanish socialist government, through its massive policy of regularisation, is responsible for the terrible events surrounding the spanish enclaves in morocco, and both countries are in fact models of a failed immigration policy. what we need is simple confirmation that our continent is not an immigration zone, that our member states are already facing enormous problems today because of the presence of millions of non-assimilated foreigners on our territory. a good start would be to respect the will of our citizens and offer turkey a privileged partnership rather than opening accession negotiations with a country which unfortunately cannot be called european in any respect.
president-in-office of the council. in the course of our presidency, i have personally had the opportunity to travel to belgrade and hear directly from representatives of serbia and montenegro of their desire, ultimately, for european union membership and their desire to move forward the process of stabilisation and association agreements. i therefore think we would be getting ahead of ourselves – given the recent announcement that was given formal expression when commissioner rehn visited belgrade recently – if we anticipated what may or may not be the conclusion of a potential referendum in the future. however, i would certainly make the point – and this was a point i made very clearly on behalf of the european union when i met with representatives both of serbia and montenegro – that the challenge of cooperation with the international criminal tribunal is an immediate and contemporary one. we have been heartened by some of the steps that have taken place in belgrade in recent months and the level of cooperation that has been shown in comparison to earlier levels of cooperation. however, let us be very clear this afternoon in this chamber that there is further and real progress that must be made to secure full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia.
i am sorry to be a little late, mr president, i did not quite hear the answer from the president-in-office, but as far as serbia is concerned, i was in kosovo last week, the albanian part of the northern province in serbia, and there is great concern about the 2500 people who are still missing; serbia is not cooperating in finding those bodies. one of the conditions for the european union to continue to cooperate with serbia should be that serbia is obliged to cooperate with unmik and with the albanian authorities in kosovo to ensure that all those people who have lost their relatives at least know where they are, where the bodies are and that the bodies are also returned so that they can be given a dignified burial. can the president-in-office of the council promise that this will be one of the conditions for continuing to work with serbia?
mr president, i am very concerned about the fate of mr labouani, who has just been arrested in damascus as he was leaving a plane on his way back from a trip to europe and the united states. mr. labouani is an iconic figure in syria. he was imprisoned after the "damascus spring" in 2001. he served his entire sentence, three years in prison. he had denounced corruption in the award of contracts for mobile telephony. he founded a liberal and secular party. i said secular, as it is true that the opposition in syria today is often allied with the muslim brotherhood. i saw him three weeks ago, flying to washington. i then told him my concern about his freedom of speech and tone. he said he wasn't afraid because he had the right to it. and then, as soon as he got back, he was arrested. i would therefore like to ask you, mr president, to support this type of democratic opposition in syria and to write a letter, for example to the syrian authorities, expressing our concern and our disagreement.
president, my country flanders has also been hit by street terrorism in the past week, with gangs of north african migrants inciting hatred against our western society on public and private property. the scale of the violence was certainly less than in france, where several deaths are to be regretted, but the politically correct left still forbids us to use the word scum or scum, "racaille" in the french language, and prefers to shoot the messenger rather than tackle the problems taboo-free. and those problems are rooted primarily in a deranged immigration policy, in ghetto formation, in the refusal to assimilate and in an aggressive islamic fundamentalism in the suburbs. but some media outlets describe the riot, which involves a disabled woman pouring gasoline on herself and setting herself on fire, as a bell-hammer; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. poor europe, poor france.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, this debate has shown how complex and multifaceted the problem of globalisation is, and how difficult it is to find clear solutions. i think it also made clear what we suspected after all, that globalization is a fairly old story and has been going on for at least 300 to 400 years. it is also clear that globalization will continue, that the interconnectedness of the world and its close contacts are part of our lives, and that it is therefore very necessary to give globalization a human face, to give it a social dimension. it is also clear that no simple solution can be found, that no initiative can be found that is capable of solving the problem in its entirety. i think it is very important that the european union has decided to pay attention to the social dimension, to work on this social dimension in close cooperation with the united nations and, in particular, with the international labour organisation. it is a path that is capable of producing results, in some cases perhaps partial, but nevertheless i think it is very right that we have embarked on it. i listened to this debate with great interest and i will also follow with great interest the development of the report that has been prepared and the structure of the amendments adopted.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, the commission has committed itself to speeding up the process of transition to digital broadcasting at european union level and to designing this process in such a way as not to distort competition. the aim is to achieve the analogue switch-off by the beginning of 2012 at the latest and to ensure that the spectrum freed up by the analogue switch-off is used in a manner that maximises the benefits for society and that society can start using it for hybrid television, telecommunications or non-broadcasting services. the transition to digital broadcasting in the european union is accelerating. the deadlines for switching off analogue terrestrial television broadcasting have recently been reduced by 2 years in spain from 2012 to 2010 and by 3 years in germany from 2010 to 2007. ten member states have set the shutdown date for 2010 or earlier, another ten have set it for 2012, five member states and bulgaria and romania have not yet decided on the shutdown date. poland, ireland and bulgaria meanwhile indicate that they may have difficulties in meeting the 2012 deadline. on this basis, the commission expects that by early 2010 the transition process should be well advanced in the european union as a whole and that the deadline for switching off analogue terrestrial television in 2012 will be met in the vast majority of member states. as regards protection against interference from analogue systems located outside europe, the commission supports the idea of agreeing at international level to end legal protection for the use of analogue transmission spectrum by 2015. this rapid termination of legal protection should encourage non-eu countries to either switch off analogue systems or at least reopen negotiations with neighbouring eu member states to minimise interference with digital systems. the international approach to scheduling should not exclude the introduction of new broadcasting and non-broadcasting services in the same bands in the future. from the outset, the commission calls for maximum technical flexibility and for consideration to be given to making part of the spectrum dividend available on a pan-european basis for future innovation services. europe fully supports research and development through its ist framework programmes for research into new enabling technologies that will enable the deployment of convergence services. as an example of newly introduced services, the community has financed several r & d projects related to interactive television, which is the basis of the electronic state news services offered to italian citizens. digital radio was also developed by a consortium set up under a european union research programme. digital radio can now broadcast in all analogue bands of the spectrum. in the same spectrum, which was previously used for a single analogue channel, several digital channels can be broadcast in hifi quality. allow me to make a brief comment on the motion for a resolution. the commission welcomes the support of the european parliament in speeding up the transition and in setting the beginning of 2012 as the deadline for completing the process of switching off analogue broadcasting in all member states, as proposed by the commission. in view of the fact that you are adopting this resolution today, i cannot answer all the detailed questions that this extensive document addresses directly at this time. the european commission will carefully consider the scope of the policy orientation for new and innovative services to be operated in originally analogue spectrum bands. at the moment, most of the most innovative services in this field are more the subject of research and development supported by the commission's research programmes. in the long term, considerable experience is needed with the technical and commercial viability of these services. spectrum issues will be a key element of the commission's work in this area. these issues will also be the subject of intensive discussions with member states in the ongoing work of the communications committee and its radio and television sub-group, as well as in the radio spectrum committee and the radio spectrum policy group. the regulatory framework addresses the issues of vertical integration and significant market power. the wholesale market for radio and television broadcast signal transmissions is included in the list of relevant markets and significant market power issues are addressed through appropriate regulatory intervention. the commission is working on a communication on the interoperability of interactive television and plans to adopt it by the end of this year. in its decisions on state aid cases, the commission provides guidance on the aspects of financing the switch-over to digital broadcasting. the european union legislation provides for a clear separation of the regulation of the transmission of electronic signals from the regulation of content. the commission considers the support of the european parliament for maintaining this clear separation to be very useful.
i would like to ask you, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to pay attention in this short space of time to two aspects of this digital changeover, starting with open standards, to which mrs barsi-pataky has of course already referred. the commission itself decided in march, commissioner, that national governments could provide subsidies for pilot projects, for example, but also for the purchase of set-top boxes by individual consumers. i wonder if you should not specify that, tighten it up, in the sense that you should stipulate that such financial support, subsidy, is only possible for set-top boxes with a so-called open standard and to avoid two things. in order to avoid the consumer being charged twice and, on the other hand, to avoid any industrial partner deliberately setting up so-called bottlenecks, the commission has proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers. because, commissioner, if one thing is clear, it is that the new television viewing, the digital tv viewing, is becoming more expensive for consumers; so it's crucial that we also agree on a basic set of channels that are accessible to everyone and that remain so. i assume you agree with us that in future the providers should be obliged to offer their customers, in particular, the basic channels of public service broadcasting; the so-called 'must-carry' is not an obstacle to the digital switchover, on the contrary, it is in our view a guarantee for maximum dissemination. then my second point. pluralism and diversity; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. that is why in the motion for a resolution which we adopted in the committee on industry we expressly ask you to ensure that the new digital market does not come under the exclusive control of some multinational. the text reads: 'a majority or a relevant part of the new broadcasting capacity or of the audiovisual companies must not come under the exclusive control of a media multinational'. that, commissioner, must become one of the priorities, one of your priorities in this whole process of change. i do not need to refer to the link with the directive on television without frontiers, which will be on our table in the first place, before the end of this year or the beginning of next year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission, mr špidla, must take the side of the consumer in this debate. i hope very much that you will not use the subsidiarity argument too easily to avoid your responsibility, because i think that argument is being used in a completely wrong way here.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/94 - 00/0425 (cns)) a first cursory reading of the annual report shows that the commission has become better organised since the fall of the santer commission and the start of the reform process. the good news is that the european budget's rate of spending has improved for the third year in a row. the bad news is that for the eleventh year in a row the court of auditors has not been able to deliver a positive statement of assurance, a positive das. so there is no certainty about the reliability of the figures. the reason is clear: the monitoring and control systems are either not yet in place, are not working effectively or payments are materially flawed. ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here about agricultural and structural policies, internal and external policies, more than four-fifths of the total european budget of 105 billion. the central problem is that 80 to 85% of the budget is shared with the member states for management and control. the finance ministers are refusing to take responsibility for this and that is a disgrace. they want money from brussels, but not the accountability. the annual report shows us once again the vital problem of export refunds. this is equivalent to 3.6 billion euros or 7.5% of the agricultural budget. however, in value terms, they account for 26% of the irregularities reported to the commission. the member states should physically check 5% of export refund files, but they are also failing miserably. i welcome the recommendation in paragraph 4.30 and footnote 20 of the annual report that the checks should be carried out at the level of the final beneficiaries. and i quote: "such a scope would create a stronger and clearer chain of accountability for cap spending". i therefore warmly urge you once again to make the lists of the final beneficiaries of agricultural payments public. this has already happened in estonia, denmark, the united kingdom and the netherlands. flanders and belgium, on the other hand, created a false openness by lumping all the figures together, making a sound analysis impossible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for example, in the netherlands, tobacco giant philip morris received 6.5 million euros for adding sugar to cigarettes over the past five years. in view of the high sugar price at eu level, philip morris is compensated for this. the klm catering service received eur 646 000 because it also uses sugar, dairy products, vegetables and fruit on flights outside the european union. this is considered as exports and can therefore be considered as export refund aid. this is crazy. this is just the tip of the iceberg. europe, the european union, the european agricultural policy will only be acceptable to the public if these waste products are dealt with. i wish all the rapporteurs in the discharge procedure, mr mulder in particular, good luck and i hope that in the coming months we will be able to carry out our work in a good way and to deliver good discharge reports at the april partsession next year.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this area, and i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this area. to hear you say "prosperity, solidarity, security", that sounds good. there are other triptychs: freedom, equality, brotherhood. the charter of fundamental rights also contains the word dignity, or justice. but there is one concept missing from the call: sustainability. i thought to myself, actually, in english, sustainable, it sounds good. in french, sustainability already sounds less good. and then sustainability, as we say, sounds even worse. maybe another triptych could be: live, move and love. just a suggestion! seriously, what's the emergency? listening to you, and you're eloquent, people say, "he's right". however, something is missing and my group is permanently experiencing a certain unease. and this unease, to put it in a figurative way, would really dissipate if the sustainable development strategy you are announcing for december did not turn out to be the poor child of pope barroso. because you know, that famous picture with your three children is etched in our memories. let me try to make this clear: you constantly refer to the american economy, but do you know that the ecological footprint of the american economy is six times what the planet can support? and what about the european economies, where this footprint is three to four times as large? this is what a study by the world wide fund has shown, and it would be interesting if, as part of this sustainable development strategy, the commission would tell us whether it recognises this finding and whether it draws any conclusions from it for european public policies. on the question of enterprises and competitiveness, environmentalists are absolutely convinced that enterprises are not the main but the essential actors of sustainable development. and that is why my group, and the european parliament, knowing that companies are torn between the duty to report to their shareholders every quarter and the need to develop strategies for sustainable development and long-term investment, constantly stress the need to set quantified targets. so we want 20 to 25 per cent renewable energy by 2020 and we want cars that consume 2.5 litres per 100 by 2020, because 70 per cent of oil consumption is linked to transport in the european union. on the economic and social front, mr barroso, it would be wise to convince the citizens that the european single market is not built on social dumping. let it be known now - and you will not be overstepping your bounds in doing so - that the compromise proposed by mrs gebhardt on the principle of country of origin may be acceptable to the commission. let the new member states and, above all, the governments know that the restrictive clauses imposed on the right to work for all citizens of the european union are useless, unacceptable and that they can be lifted on 1 may 2006. these are some of the suggestions i wanted to share with you. i don't have time to go on but if you want, i could talk to you in another setting.
president, apart from the fact that i am surprised that the european commission is acting in such a negative way, and that it is in fact ignoring the clear and unambiguous warning of the french and dutch "no" in the european referendums, 2006 will be above all the year of the definitive start of the accession negotiations between the european commission and the turkish state, in which the european commission once again proves that it is not only indifferent to the democratic will of the majority of europeans, but also to its own rules of law, which are otherwise so sacred to the community acquis. i am in any case curious to see what tricks, what lies, what false arguments the commission will use to finally say, despite the warning of the former commissioner for agriculture, franz fischler, that turkey would be able to be integrated into the european agricultural policy and that the costs would not be unbearably high. we will not stop saying that turkish accession to the european union is intolerable and undemocratic.
the brejc report, mr president, is yet another document, a little out of touch with the world, which, as is typical of all documents in this institution, seeks the blessing of new international standards, new international institutions, of which one wonders whether we do not already have enough and who will continue to pay for all of them. in practice, i note that this year we are negotiating accession with an islamic country where child labour and the marginalisation of women are the norm. i think we'd better keep talking about that instead of doing some non-binding talk about the social dimension of globalization. and yet, when we talk about it, we must also talk about china, the country with which we are such good friends, the country where parliamentary institutions from all the european countries happily travel back and forth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that we can now transform the social dimension of globalisation, while doing nothing about china, is a lie, that will be the day.
mr president, in exactly two days' time parliament will have a golden opportunity to reconcile europe and the european people by voting this ambitious reach regulation, which is really protecting our health and our environment. the choice is simple: either we turn our backs on the concerns of the citizens by succumbing to the sirens of a certain industry or by voting for a traditional left-right split which is totally outdated here, or the european parliament will turn the test marked by its committee on the environment in favour of a strong reach, which will bring hope to the citizens and to the many innovative industrialists who have made a bet on clean chemistry. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens. with xxs registration and xxl opt-out, in other words the maximum possibility of escaping the system of 'one substance, one exception', how can you, mr sacconi and mr verheugen, talk about an ambitious compromise? i call that a defeat. i hope that this thursday parliament will make the modern commitment to combine health and sustainable employment instead of continuing to oppose them in a fruitless way. i would like to conclude, if i may, mr president, with a short, friendly reply to my colleague mr goebbels: as a liberal, i do not feel particularly 'green' in making this choice, which is neither right-wing nor left-wing, but which is a bet on the future.
the proposal for a regulation which we are discussing here is not only complex and far-reaching but also very ambitious. it is not necessary to be less, because it is ultimately a matter of health and the environment. to achieve these objectives, we must not only aim high, but also make the proposal both workable and practical. balance and responsibility, mr rapporteur - you yourself mentioned these two words - are indeed two key words. our concern for the impact of competitiveness, for cost-effectiveness, for the specific concerns of smes, for the innovation capacity and competitiveness of our businesses and for legal certainty in data protection is not against reach, but is an integral part of it. there are a lot of amendments, too many for a plenary session, but there are some things that need to be worked out. let us therefore call for further consultations until thursday, so that we can reach a consistent and broadly supported vote on all fronts. a widely supported vote which could also lead to a balanced text. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let us therefore make the most of the european added value and therefore give the agency the necessary powers to arrive at a uniform approach without, however, losing the know-how in the member states and let us also ensure a sufficiently harmonized approach in the enforcement of the regulation. if we are careful this week, we will be living in a different environment in 11 years' time and we will have caused no less than a revolution in the union. we will have data on all chemicals and we will be much more sensible about them, we will have contributed to better public health and a healthier environment. let us take our responsibility to achieve this in an ambitious and realistic way. some colleagues have pointed out - and i conclude here - that the debate on the left and the right is irrelevant here. let's put that aside for a moment and make sure we vote wisely on thursday.
member of the commission. i would like to thank mr dimitrakopoulos for his question and for the follow-up question. i can assure him that we have indeed a common objective in ensuring that the european perspective is the future of kosovo. i agree that this was very much underlined in the report by ambassador eide on standards in kosovo. in my view, the eide report is very professional, of very high quality, is very objective and realistic. it also underlines the need to ensure both standards and status as we make progress in this negotiation process. i can also ensure that, in the joint paper with mr solana, we outline our objective of a balanced and sustainable settlement.
i fully agree with the commissioner, mr president, when he says that kosovo must be given a european perspective. the local authorities also agree that a military presence will be necessary once the independent status is achieved. does this mean, commissioner, that once that independent status has been achieved, kfor troops will eventually be withdrawn and replaced by european troops? if so, do you have any idea what this will cost the european union and is there a willingness on the part of the european union and the commission to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available?
member of the commission. president ahtisaari has just started his work and is engaged in shuttle diplomacy in belgrade, pristina and with the international community. therefore, i would not like to jump the gun and predict the proposal of the un envoy president ahtisaari. in my view it is better to let him work, let him consult with the different parties and then, when the time is right, try to achieve a solution with the necessary determination. therefore i do not think it wise to take a stand at this point on whether and in which format k-for should continue in kosovo. i want to say two things. first of all it is necessary for there to be an international presence in the future too, as a security guarantee. second, we are starting our needs assessment work in regard to financing in kosovo, so that we support the work of the international community and president ahtisaari.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu action plan called flegt - forest regulation, governance and trade - is concerned only with the concept of legality and does not address the wider and more complex issues of sustainable development of forestry. there is a marked difference between these two aspects. wood of legal origin may be harvested in an environmentally harmful way, for example by means of authorised clearing. similarly, illegal timber may come from a sustainable source, such as timber harvested under indigenous management systems that, while environmentally friendly, are not subject to official legal requirements. however, in most countries, forestry legislation is based on sustainable development principles. improved governance and better enforcement will therefore lead to more environmentally friendly forest management. the partnership agreements to be concluded under the flegt action plan will also provide a means of bringing together stakeholders to address broader aspects of forest governance and, where appropriate, support the implementation of regulatory legislative reforms. the commission hopes that these procedures will improve legislation and governance in the partner states and make them more equitable. therefore, i hope you will understand that the importance given in the flegt action plan to the issue of legality is not an end in itself but rather a means of working with partner states to improve governance in the forest sector. however, the eu flegt action plan is an initiative that aims to bring about change through the commitment of the parties. it is therefore not desirable to impose strict social and environmental conditions on potential partner states. too stringent conditions would be an obstacle to their commitment to the partnership agreements. it should also be noted that, while the eu's flegt action plan focuses on governance and legality, the eu remains committed to promoting sustainable forest management in developing countries. over the past decade, the european union has allocated more than €700 million to sustainable forest management in asia, central africa and south america.
president, commissioner, i thank you for your reply and for some of your comments. of course, cooperation with these partner countries can be a good thing, but we all know that nothing prevents potential partner countries from importing illegal timber into europe via third countries such as china. greenpeace has recently revealed that it has discovered illegal networks from congo-brazzaville to italy, from papua new guinea to china and so on to the united kingdom. so my question is how does the commission, how does the commissioner intend to put a stop to this kind of practice?
mr president, let me return to a regrettable incident that occurred yesterday concerning the anti-abortion exhibition prepared by our polish colleagues in the independent group. mrs gomes and i were not only pushed, not only almost beaten, but also called "fascists" and "nazis" by this group. this is unacceptable. i wasn't going to complain to the president, since the exhibition was cancelled and the scandalous images linking abortion to the holocaust - which is still a shame - were removed. but since my colleague has had the audacity to call us to complain that he has been called a 'fascist', i should like to point out that we have been called 'nazis' ourselves. in this chamber, that is particularly shocking.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate you and express the full support of parliament for the efforts you are making today to ensure that the european union plays a leading role in the reconstruction of iraq. but let me return to the unpleasant point. shortly before the outbreak of the war in iraq, general morillon warned the european parliament that 'there is no such thing as a war of our own'. one could hope, however, that a war of liberation would be less dirty than the others. it's not! after the terrible images of the invasion and the abu ghraib prison scandal, there is now the controversial issue of the white phosphorus bombs that were allegedly used in the siege of fallujah, a rebel city, also a martyr city. our history has taught us that no peace can be built in a country by concealing the atrocities that have been committed there. there is a necessary work of investigation and search for the truth. the formal democracy that is trying to establish itself in iraq and the relations with this country that we are trying to rebuild are confronted with this obvious fact: "no democracy without truth"! saddam hussein is going to be tried for the crimes he committed and, probably, for the use of chemical weapons against the kurds in 1991. it's only fair. the truth about the siege of fallujah, about the burned martyrs, about the responsibility for the use of weapons prohibited by the 1980 geneva convention, is also part of what we must give the iraqis in addition to our material aid. we're going to help them train their justice, it's called capacity building. but can we really succeed in this endeavour if we do not also give them a sense that justice, and especially international justice, exists? i therefore ask you, mr president, madam commissioner, to demand that the coalition forces conduct an independent investigation and that justice be done. we have called for an international criminal court for saddam hussein. the crime against humanity that the use of chemical weapons in fallujah would possibly constitute is well deserved. but if we in this house think that all this is a utopia, what message of hope can we bring to the iraqi people today?
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation to establish a blacklist of unsafe airlines. the spirit of this proposal? allow travellers to choose their carrier with full knowledge of safety conditions and to be informed of last-minute changes of company. this is part of a broader strategy to enhance the safety of a growing air transport sector. in 2003, there were 1.7 billion air passengers worldwide, and this figure is expected to rise to 2.5 billion by 2015. in europe alone, the number of air passengers increased by an average of 5.5% per year between 1990 and 2003. this work must be carried out at european level, in collaboration with the member states, in order to establish common inspection criteria. there are still too many disparities, particularly in the area of controls. the commission, without substituting itself for the gendarmes of the skies, must show ambition, point out the bad pupils, find weaknesses and harmonize european regulations on aviation safety. this is the prerequisite for air transport to remain what it is, the safest form of transport.
for the greens/efa group mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i have three reactions to your speech, mr straw. i would like to suggest to you, very modestly, that you should read over the draft constitution you have signed, which i believe contains solutions both to the division of powers and to the role of national parliaments. why abandon this project? as regards social policy and the directive on the organization of working time, i agree with you: we must say yes to national diversity, but if we have to take inspiration from a model, i would like to take inspiration from the scandinavian model. and then, on the question of the single market, i hope you will agree with me that competition must also be fair and balanced. in other words, the single market is also built on common social standards, in keeping with the very spirit of the treaties. finally, as regards the budget, i think we have a real problem of credibility in terms of both revenue and expenditure. mr barroso and the european parliament have alluded to this sufficiently. the success of the european union at twenty-five, the expression of our constant solidarity with the new member states and the pursuit of a foreign policy with sufficient resources, possibly more than 5% of the budget, require an increase in the community budget. and above all, and i will end with this, we must get out of the budgetary debate characterized by a rise in national egoism. in the mid-term review called for by the commission and parliament, the presidency and the european council as a whole must make a political commitment to propose a european mechanism which will provide the european union with genuine autonomous resources for the future of the union's policies. with such a commitment, we might be able to convince our citizens of the usefulness of european policy.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. iran is a cradle of civilization and has made an invaluable contribution to the cultural, artistic, religious, intellectual and scientific heritage of humanity. after iran became an islamic republic, it was isolated for decades. the european union has taken the lead in breaking this isolation and has launched a comprehensive dialogue, including on economic relations, international cooperation and human rights. however, since the inauguration of president ahmadinejad, there has been a clear tightening of the grip. the convictions of minors, the renewed persecution of journalists and human rights activists, and the recall of 40 ambassadors are all indications of this. the recent statements by the president, who congratulated suicide bombers and said that israel must be wiped off the map, are totally contrary to the charter of the united nations and are absolutely condemnable and totally unacceptable, both from the political and international point of view, but above all from the human and moral point of view. the right of israel to exist within internationally recognized borders and in security alongside a viable palestinian state is inviolable. iran would do better to contribute to a solution in the middle east and to stop supporting international terrorism. the recent presidential statements threaten to isolate iran, which is indeed a great country, and to prevent this important country from playing a leading role in its region.
president-in-office of the council. i can assure the honourable member that we take seriously the kind of abuse of which he speaks so eloquently. speaking for a moment from the united kingdom point of view rather than the presidency point of view, it is the case that in the united kingdom we have the highest guide levels of all the member states of the european union. we, like every member state, apply sanctions to those who bring in excise goods that are not for their own personal use with the intention – exactly the intention to which the honourable member refers – of evading the duty that would otherwise be due. these sanctions, i believe, are proportionate to the nature of the offence. therefore he is right in recognising that guidelines are exactly that.
president-in-office of the council. the council has never debated this question and it is not within the sphere of its competence.
president-in-office of the council. i can assure the honourable member that i have concerns for the welfare and interests of her constituents, not least because we share constituents, representing as i do the constitutents of paisley and renfrewshire south in scotland. i am respectful of her experience, not least in the field of constitutional law, but i would simply state what seems to me an obvious point, i.e. that my responsibilities today are not to explain or to articulate the position of the british government in relation to this particular policy issue, but instead to outline the position of the european union presidency of which britain holds the chair at the moment. i would therefore be perfectly content if the honourable member would wish to write to me on a bilateral basis on the specific points that she has raised in order that we could ensure that a reply be directed towards the home office in the united kingdom. but i would hesitate to go further than that, given that it is not really the appropriate focus for our discussions in this chamber this afternoon.
president-in-office of the council. well, mr president, it was a valiant attempt in the supplementary to try and draw us into a discussion of britain’s domestic policy, but i think the appropriate response, and one which is genuinely respectful to this chamber, is to address ourselves to the points that have been raised in responding as the presidency. i have already made an offer to one of the member’s parliamentary colleagues that if she wishes to write directly to me, i will facilitate the correspondence being passed on to the home office in the united kingdom, but i think, not least given the constraints of time always upon us during question time, it is important that we focus on questions to the council at this stage, rather than to continue what is an appropriate discussion within respective member states.
president-in-office of the council. in reply to question 6, the council shares the concerns of the honourable member regarding restrictions on freedom of expression, including on the internet in china. the european union has most recently expressed these concerns in the context of the eu-china human rights dialogue, which took place on 24 and 25 october 2005 in beijing. the european union has also repeatedly raised this issue in other bilateral meetings, including at the highest level. with a view to china’s signature and the process of ratification of the international covenant on civil and political rights, it is of particular importance that freedom of expression be guaranteed in line with international standards. article 19 of the iccpr was therefore the subject of a recent legal seminar of european union and chinese academics and practitioners that took place in beijing in june 2005 in the context of this dialogue. the joint recommendations that resulted from that seminar were handed over to the chinese side during that last dialogue. as part of the dialogue and in the context of the european union guidelines on human rights defenders, the european union has raised with the chinese authorities a number of cases of individuals detained for peacefully expressing their opinions, asking for more details on their fate and pressing for their release.
i would like to thank the council for its reply. i have the impression, however, that very little is actually being done by the chinese government, apart from a number of friendly declarations. i have the impression that we, the council and the european union, are still using double standards and double standards, and that china in particular is still being largely spared because of the power of numbers and because of the obviously very large economic interests in this country. i personally think that when it comes to very essential human rights and very essential freedom of expression, the council should nevertheless pursue a harder, more principled and more courageous policy. i would ask the council to study the specific case i have mentioned again, if possible, and perhaps to contact the chinese authorities in this particular case as well.
in writing. it is with a heavy heart that i felt compelled to abstain on this crucial vote. i do not mean to be dismissive, but this is the only way i can express my opinion on the contradictory message that parliament is sending today. the first concerns the principle of substitution of problem substances: compulsory (amendment 232) and the search for safer alternatives (amendment 214). this is the first time that the european parliament has expressed itself in this way in such an important text. that said, i cannot be happy when, in the same text, and at the beginning of the process, parliament completely distorts the registration procedure for two thirds of the substances covered by reach, those under 10 tonnes: tests that are extremely light and based on risk and not on tonnage. this, in my view, does not provide the basic guarantees of health and protection for the most vulnerable populations. we are here to undermine the very foundations of reach. it is also encouraging to note that the council is more ambitious than parliament on this point. may he continue to do so!
in writing. today the world has seen that a democratically elected parliament is easily fooled. all it takes is a few half-truths and a few big lies. this parliament has shown the world that whoever shouts and yells the loudest will be right in the end. the chemical industry in belgium alone made profits of eur 1.7 billion last year. this figure will be much more affected by the high oil price and the low dollar than by the introduction of reach in any form. in the not so distant past, europeans were fond of patting themselves on the back for the progressive environmental policy that was being pursued here. we were the world's leading runners, we thought. but that time is over. this faint boil of reach shows how not to do it. the white paper that preceded reach placed the full responsibility on the manufacturers of chemicals. they had to be able to prove that their products, which they make a profit from, do not pose unacceptable risks to health and the environment. there are so many back doors now that it's hard to find the main entrance. this reach is a missed opportunity, an opportunity that probably will never come again.
in writing. israel as a scapegoat! the tactic is as old as the hebrew state. old as the world i should say, since beyond israel, it is the jews who are targeted by the iranian president. anti-zionism, as everyone knows, is in many ways the contemporary form of anti-semitism. i regret the lukewarm reaction to this declaration of war. we have heard some pretty angry words, and some tremors. threats of punishment? not one! to burn articles 39 to 41 of the un charter? apologize to you? not on the agenda! i can only imagine what the outcry would have been if ariel sharon had called for the removal of syria or iran from the map! to ask the question is to answer it, and to see the indifference, the dramatic apathy of our western leaders and of many of our media. let me be clear: by attacking israel, mahmoud ahmadinejad is targeting us. his hatred of israel is nothing but hatred of any form of democracy, incompatible with muslim fundamentalism. i cannot accept the indifference of some, nor the lukewarmness of this text. that's why i abstained.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i had the good fortune to lead the european parliament delegation to observe the work of the 26th asean interparliamentary assembly last september in vientiane, laos. in my visit, i was able to see the efforts of laos and other countries in the region to improve their governance. the european union supports the efforts of these countries and we must continue to work in this direction. burma, on the other hand, has made no effort to ensure that power is exercised democratically. the repression of aung san suu kyi, the 1991 nobel peace prize winner, and her party supporters is not to be mentioned. this repressive situation is one of the most striking proofs of the absence of democracy in burma. let us not forget that the ruling party came to power through illegitimate means. i think it is appropriate to give you some facts illustrating the tragic situation of this country and its people. let me here use the voice of reporters without borders to refer to the case of win tin, a 75-year-old journalist in critical condition who is still in prison when he should be released on good behaviour. the list of oppressed people is obviously very long and, despite the welcome release of 250 people a few months ago, there are still about a thousand political prisoners. for more than 10 years, the state council for the restoration of law and order, which is nothing more than a military junta, has controlled various aspects of the country's political and economic life. human rights are completely forgotten, access to education has become a privilege reserved for a tiny part of society and freedom of expression is non-existent to the point that foreign journalists are imprisoned. any form of dissenting opinion is prohibited. the resistance members, still active, were arrested to prevent them from undermining the government. the situation is all the more serious because this country, which has a large number of ethnic groups, has no respect for cultural diversity. some ethnic groups were enslaved. despite these obvious horrors, some countries continue to trade with burma. as a member of the european parliament, i ask that a more firm stance be taken against this unacceptable situation, since the sanctions imposed are too weak. to change the present situation, i believe it is essential to prevent trade in strategic sectors currently in the hands of the generals. it would be interesting to invite the commercial and industrial companies in burma to set an example, so that the country can really move towards democracy. that is why i, of course, wholeheartedly support the resolution of the six political groups.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. because as commissioner mandelson has said: it's clear we need to adjust our ambitions. it is clear that hong kong will not lead to the long-awaited breakthrough in multilateral trade negotiations, unless a miracle happens. hopefully the meaning of hong kong will not be changed from "smelly harbour" to "sand mud puddle". the biggest obstacle is and remains the agricultural dossier. europe does not want to make concessions if other large countries do not come up with more concessions. and so we are in a complete deadlock. the situation seems even worse with the gats negotiations, where there is no agreement at all. i believe the commissioner is right when he says that a doha round without a substantive and positive approach to the services sector is unacceptable for europe. so we're supposed to put our hands in our own bosom? i don't think he is. europe has gone far, very far indeed, in the multilateral trade negotiations. we already have the largest open economy in the world. the european scheme of generalised preferences is the most generous preferential system. and everything but arms is unique in terms of exports to europe by the least developed countries. but at the moment the very principle of multilateral trade negotiations is at stake. a new debacle in hong kong risks completely eroding the world trade organization, as trading blocs will seek and pursue alternatives such as bilateral and regional trade agreements to increase their market access. this scenario is best avoided. on the one hand, because the poorest countries are in danger of being the victims, but on the other hand, because the importance of the world trade organisation, which has contributed to more economic growth, more development and more jobs over the last 50 years, cannot and must not be underestimated. the european union is a democratic institution, but it is also a democratic institution, even though it is in dire need of reform, in the direction of greater transparency, greater efficiency and, above all, more democratic control. commissioner, with the resolution before us, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, we want to strengthen your negotiating mandate, your negotiating position. the fact that there is a relatively large consensus in europe hopefully makes your mission a little less impossible. whatever happens, we must remain the driving force behind the multilateral trade negotiations from europe. your most important job now is to make sure there's life after hong kong. we shall endeavour to support you in this endeavour, modestly but with great conviction.
mr president, sport is much more than just a game. it is indeed a dream instrument with which to achieve very important things in education and in the social field. the arguments in the motion for a resolution are of course equally valid for sport here in europe. sport promotes common values and should therefore not be treated as a purely economic sector. i know, and you know with us, that there is a lot of money involved in sport and that football clubs are often powerful companies that are run as such. and that should not be an argument for remaining blind to the enormous social role of sports organisations. many clubs, big and small, in the european football league are active in the social field, in community projects. they involve young people from socially weaker families, often of immigrant origin or young people with learning difficulties, in the club and they thus avoid the young people slipping away and becoming lost to society. we must cherish and encourage this function of sport. projects involving local authorities and football clubs working closely together to achieve what is known as greater social cohesion deserve support. and just as we are debating this, there is a hearing being held in parliament, not far from here, on football as an instrument against racism. well, you see. i hope very much, commissioner and mr president-in-office, that you will be with us in the coming months and years in the development of european sport policy with or without a constitution. a sport policy which pays particular attention to the undeniable social role of sport in the european union and beyond.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the commissioner has said, my report is about implementing a decision taken by the general council of the world trade organisation on 30 august 2003. this decision allows wto members, pursuant to article 6 of the doha declaration on trips, to grant compulsory licences for the manufacture and sale of patented pharmaceutical products to countries with an acute public health problem which have insufficient or no production capacity of their own. it is almost the only agreement that was reached at that time in cancún among the wto members. the aim of my report is to ensure that this wto decision is applied in a uniform and equal manner in all eu member states by means of a european regulation. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. this consensus put us in a particularly strong negotiating position in the informal trialogue which was immediately launched. the british presidency in particular, and i do not blame them for their absence this evening, was keen to see an agreement at first reading with a view to the wto ministerial conference in hong kong. almost all the proposals of the committee on international trade were eventually accepted. this is thanks to the excellent cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs of the other political parties who have defended parliament's positions with a great deal of knowledge and conviction, for which i am very grateful to them. the main improvement on the commission proposal is undoubtedly the extension of the scope to non-wto members. all developing countries will now be able to use the system if necessary. in addition, ngos and international organisations such as the un will have the right to submit applications for the import of medicines themselves. in fact, these organizations often distribute medicines in developing countries. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the system of quotas for the period from 1 january 1993 to 31 december 1993. an application is possible if it appears that the quantity of medicinal products initially granted in the compulsory licence is not sufficient to alleviate the need. another important change is the removal of the requirement to negotiate with the patent holder in advance in the event of a major emergency or other situations of non-commercial or public use. as regards these preliminary negotiations, the committee on international trade has insisted on a more precise period of up to 30 days. this was eventually accepted by the council, as was the specific definition of the concept of appropriate compensation to be paid to the rightholder. it now simply represents 4% of the total value of the product concerned in case of an emergency. in other cases, the economic value is taken into account, but 4% remains the criterion. the amendments which the compromise contains to the commission's initial proposal were incorporated in amendments which i tabled together with the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups. i hope that they will be adopted and that the agreement reached with the council and the commission will be confirmed. it will enable us to announce in hong kong that europe has translated this important wto decision into a uniform regulation for the whole union. this can only serve to enhance our credibility in relation to the many people in need in developing countries and in regions affected by natural disasters. it is in that spirit that i would urge my colleagues to accept the amendments and thus ratify the agreement reached.
member of the commission. mr president, before i start my introductory remarks i would like to offer my apologies to you and to the honourable members for the delay. we had some traffic problems but now i am here and i will let you know the position of the commission. i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, mr becsey, for his two reports, and to ms berès for the oral question on such an important issue which is very close to my heart. i will first comment on the proposal on the minimum standard vat rate. i will continue with comments on the oral question and the motion for a resolution concerning the reduced vat rate. finally, i will comment briefly on the eighth vat directive proposal, which is part of the one-stop-shop package on which an extended debate took place in this house back in september. the commission thanks the european parliament for the quick handling of the minimum standard vat rate proposal and in particular the rapporteur, mr becsey, for his active and positive contribution. this proposal needs to be adopted as a matter of urgency as the present rules come to an end on 31 december 2005. the absence of a timely decision would imply a legal gap in eu legislation. the rules concerning the standard vat rate currently in force combined with the transitional system mechanisms have functioned so far to an acceptable degree. it is therefore appropriate to maintain the current minimum standard rate at 15% for a further period of five years in order to cover the ongoing implementation of the strategy to simplify and modernise the current community legislation on vat. for your information, the proposal has received a positive reaction from the european economic and social committee. the committee has acknowledged that in the current environment – i.e. the rule of unanimity – the commission’s proposal is the best way forward. i would like to stress that, while i fully understand the concerns of the honourable members regarding the absence of a decision in the council only one month away from the expiry date for the reduced rates for labour-intensive services, i do not think that the current proposal can be used to solve this problem. therefore i would very much urge honourable members not to make a link between this dossier and the discussions on the scope of the reduced vat rates which are currently being held in the council on the basis of the commission’s 2003 compromise proposal. i now come to the oral question and the motion for a resolution concerning the reduced vat rates on labour-intensive services. i would like to thank you for putting this question to the commission. i am conscious that this issue is of high concern to the public and to business. i am also very much concerned about this issue as the current regime to apply reduced vat rates on labour-intensive services is due to expire at the end of this year. i very much appreciate the uk presidency’s efforts to find a compromise on reduced vat rates. this issue was discussed at the ecofin council on 8 november and will be discussed again on 6 december. the absence of a decision by the council before the end of this year on the application of reduced rates to labour-intensive services would be a very bad outcome. businesses are very concerned as they need legal certainty. i can assure you that the commission will do its utmost to help the presidency reach a conclusion on this matter. without going into details about the presidency’s compromise, i want to explain the difficulties that have arisen in previous debates on this issue. some delegations reject any extension of annex h as a matter of principle. i must say that i do not really understand that position. the reduced rates listed in annex h are optional, so that, apart from a few categories in respect of which reduced rates are largely applied throughout europe, there are already today huge disparities between member states. if we take into account the numerous specific derogations granted to some member states, these disparities become even bigger. restaurant services are a very good example. currently half of the member states apply reduced rates to restaurant services by way of specific derogations and this has not given rise to any complaints or distortion of competition. why not, therefore, give the opportunity to all member states to apply a reduced rate in this sector if they wish to do so? some member states press for more subsidiarity. the budgetary impact of applying additional reduced rates also comes into play. in my view only very few sectors are really relevant in this respect. in principle, only restaurants and construction services might have a significant potential budgetary impact. for instance, regarding the building sector the council could explore criteria for restricting the scope of the reduced rates in order to limit the possible budgetary impact for example by limiting the reduced rate to buildings over a certain age. i want to underline the economic importance of the building sector. you know that the commission has always been doubtful about the positive employment effects of introducing reduced vat rates. this is still the case. nevertheless, we have to realise that at least in this sector the vat rate plays an important role. in contrast to the reduction of the rate, its increase by the reintroduction of the standard rate could well lead to an immediate increase in prices for consumers. this would have negative consequences for employment and could even encourage the black economy in the member states concerned. i am aware that businesses, the member states concerned and the european parliament have great concerns in this regard. therefore i consider that there are good political and economic arguments to allow at least the preservation of the status quo in this sector. however, there are some conditions. first, only locally delivered services should be added to the existing scope of the reduced vat rate provisions. the extension of reduced rates to new categories of goods should be avoided, as the risk of creating distortions of competition is too high. second, the mere prolongation of the existing experimental reduced rates for labour-intensive services is neither viable nor desirable. although i was initially tempted by this solution, we have to recognise that it is an illusion to believe that a mere prolongation has more chance of being unanimously adopted by the council than the compromise currently under discussion. furthermore, this experiment has been limited to nine member states and a mere prolongation would only prolong the unequal treatment of member states. i have to stress that the council has already had more than two years to reach a decision. it should not duck its responsibilities yet again. third, the compromise must be fair in the sense that it should represent a step towards the equal treatment of all member states. in my view, the uk presidency proposal for an initial extension of the time-limited derogations for the new member states to 2015 would precisely contribute to this objective. i know that some of the honourable members might not entirely agree with this line, especially as regards the extension of the labour-intensive services. let me, therefore, take this opportunity to remind them of the fact that when the council agreed on the second extension of the reduced rates for labour-intensive services for two more years, the commission considered that the same possibilities should be offered to the new member states. at the time of the pre-accession negotiations, the possibility of applying reduced rates to labour-intensive services was not considered relevant since the experiment was due to end on 31 december 2003, i.e. before eu enlargement. therefore, the extension of measures constituted a new element calling for a review of the situation. the situation is clearly not the same as it was in 2003 and it is therefore exceedingly unlikely that the council will – as it did previously – unanimously request that the commission propose an extension. in addition, a simple extension of the labour-intensive services experiment offers no solutions for the widespread demand to also include restaurant services in the scope of the reduced rates, because currently they are not in annex k. in conclusion, i consider it to be imperative that the council should now draw up the lines of a viable compromise with a view to a political decision in december during the last ecofin meeting under the uk presidency. however, the commission is in the hands of the council and we can do no more than help the council as much as possible to reach an agreement. as the commissioner responsible for taxation, i can assure you that the commission is prepared to do its utmost and show the maximum flexibility during the ecofin meeting on 6 december in order to help reach unanimous agreement on the basis of the uk compromise. finally, i should like to comment briefly on the eighth directive proposal. on several occasions i have underlined that one of the ways of attaining the lisbon objectives is to reduce cross-border administrative burdens and compliance costs in order to facilitate community-wide activities by businesses. today it will be possible to take the next step towards this objective. the proposal which is tabled today is part of the larger package known as the one-stop-shop scheme. the other parts of the overall proposal – the simplification measures, whereby taxable persons can discharge their vat obligations in the member states of establishment, and the rules containing the exchange of information between member states – were adopted by this parliament in september. this part of the proposal aims at reforming the vat refund procedure for traders who have to reclaim their vat in a member state in which they are not established. an entirely electronic procedure will replace the current burdensome paper-based eighth directive refund system. as a result of the new proposal, it will become possible to speed up the vat refund procedure substantially. this will be of particular help for small and medium-sized enterprises. in this respect i welcome the positive contribution of the rapporteur, although i cannot accept the proposed amendments. most of the issues are actually already covered by the commission’s proposal on the one-stop-shop package. i therefore invite you to support the original position of the commission. now i am eager to listen to your opinion on the three vat dossiers on the agenda of this meeting and in my closing remarks i shall take a position on the amendments that have been tabled.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. president, commissioner, the commission has not yet adopted a decision. thank you very much, commissioner, for your hopeful speech. i think we can use this well in vat legislation, because while everyone is talking about better legislation and good governance, in two of the three issues that are being discussed in this debate we are seeing the opposite. it is good that work is being done to simplify the rules for the refund of vat to taxable persons established in another member state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. we, the ppe-de members, can only agree to that. but then there is the proposal to extend the normal vat rate threshold. the fact that this extension is being proposed is of course a good thing and we support it. but we do find it a little dramatic that such a measure has to be introduced less than 30 days before the deadline for the successor to take office. but anyway, everybody knows what's coming. it will be decided later and everyone will be at peace for five years. but the situation is worse with the struggle - and i have no better word for it - over annex k and indirectly annex h of the sixth vat directive. the experiment with the reduced vat rate for labour-intensive services is already running twice as long as originally planned. the council is failing to evaluate and to make decisions. the sectors which we, the commission and the european parliament, had given hope in 2003 about the possibility of a reduced vat rate - the catering industry, the construction industry, but also the laundry and the gardening industry - all these sectors are still starving. the council does not say yes, the council does not say no, the council does not decide and the council is not here either. we're creating uncertainty here. uncertainty is bad for economic development. in a time when we are yearning for growth and more jobs, this is unacceptable. we are counting on your support, commissioner, in the debate with the council and we are also in full agreement with the two becsey reports and the resolution attached to the oral question.
the rapporteur. - mr president, as a result of some errors which have crept into the voting list prepared by the secretariat, it is possible that some confusion has arisen. i would like to clear up that confusion by making it clear that everyone who can rally behind the compromise we have reached with the council and with the commission will accept the amendments in block 1, but reject all the other amendments. the commission and the council made it clear again yesterday during the debate that there is only a compromise if block 1 is adopted in its entirety, without any other amendments. all the groups voted in favour of this compromise yesterday, except the gue/ngl. it is extremely important that we have a regulation on the eve of the wto conference in hong kong. this compromise has been worked hard on. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. it seems to me important that this should be adopted and not, because of possible confusion, that there should be another vote which we expect and do not expect. so again: if we support the compromise, we must accept block 1 and no other amendments.
i think that there is something essential missing from mr duff's report on the guidelines for the approval of the european commission. i would remind you that a year ago mr butiglione, the italian candidate for commissioner, was slaughtered here on the basis of a scandalous dossier prepared against him. the question was not, as in the inquisition at the time, whether commissioner butiglione would pursue a policy, but whether he would not, in his deepest convictions, hold views which were contrary to that terrible political correctness. the massacre of butiglione was another step in the repression by our new left-wing totalitarian priests. if this parliament were honest and consistent with itself, this report would say that european commissioners are not allowed to think outside the bounds of political correctness.
president, much ado about nothing. the duff report does indeed remind me of the famous words of william shakespeare. independence, competence, european commitment - all of this is very good. but in practice i find that a figure like louis michel was accepted by this parliament as a commissioner without any problems: mr michel, who, as former belgian foreign minister, went against the very idea of european cooperation in his demonization of austria; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms industry is not left behind. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including the former president of the council, michel, who said during a flash visit to cuba in march that all was well and that human rights organisations should stop provoking castro. how fortunate that ethics and respect for human rights are not overriding criteria for appointment! (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to begin by thanking mr blokland for his very interesting report. it is clear that a society without batteries has become unthinkable and, as we have heard from colleagues, the use of batteries is showing an increasing trend: the world is growing at an annual rate of 9%. and by the way, let's think about all the things that we use in electronics on a daily basis as consumers. this is a good reason for all member states to make greater efforts to reduce environmental risks to a minimum in the future. it is clear that the current 1991 directive is not producing enough results on the ground, precisely because it does not contain any hard-and-fast collection and recycling objectives. moreover, it is very difficult to compare the results in the different member states. i would like to remind you of the successful example of my region, flanders, which has been mentioned many times. in flanders, the public authorities have made a huge effort, in conjunction with the industry, to set up an efficient collection system, which has resulted in no less than 60% of the batteries being effectively collected. the key factor in this success is shared responsibility. without a well-developed, dense network of collection points, ambitious collection objectives cannot be achieved. i would like to say that i would like to call for higher collection rates, which my amendment also passed in our committee. secondly, i would like to call for accountability for all actors. i have tabled a new amendment to this effect. finally, i would like to call for legal certainty for the industry, both for batteries and for the so-called power tools, with regard to cadmium use, for which i propose a transitional period of four years. i hope that many colleagues will support this.
i think that the commission proposal and the proposal in the bersani report to introduce a common tax base for companies are good proposals. it leads to more transparency and that is good for our economy and for employment. but whether we like it or not, the marks & spencer case which has already been alluded to here will very soon lead to the concretization of the debate on tax harmonization. i would therefore like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the amendments which i myself and some 40 colleagues have tabled, not to harmonize taxes but to introduce a minimum rate for corporation tax. an amendment which allows for competition between member states in the tax field, but then fair competition, also for companies. an amendment which will ensure that enough money is coming in to finance our social model and which will allow the public sector to have enough funds in reserve to finance, for example, the infrastructure for the companies. i would like to quote the hungarian minister for social affairs, kinga göncz, in this connection. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. despite the short-term benefits, it is possible that we will eventually lack the resources to guarantee prosperity and implement the social model. we want to prevent this. we already have a minimum rate for capital gains, we want a minimum rate for companies tomorrow.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i believe that the commission should adopt its strategy for sustainable development today. the question is not without its impact on the debate on the legislative programme in that my group has criticised the commission's programme for not paying enough attention to sustainable development issues in particular. since last month's debate with president barroso, the european environment agency has published a very important and very interesting report, the third five-yearly report on the state of the environment in the european union and the effectiveness of the union's policies. i shall not summarize this 750-page report in 30 minutes, but it is clear that despite considerable progress, the overall situation continues to deteriorate in a number of sectors, particularly transport, energy and agriculture. there are two other very important points in this report, and i would like to draw your attention to them. first, the cost of inaction may be greater than the cost of prevention policy. i was really surprised to learn that two hundred million working days are lost every year because of occupational diseases related to air pollution. second, household spending will double by 2030, the report says. this is the interest and importance of guiding consumer choice and thus of actually applying the principle of internalising costs. that is why the green resolution calls for you, among other things, to introduce binding measures for car emissions linked to air pollution , to introduce implementing measures under the eco-design directive, for which the commission is behind schedule, and to introduce a kerosene tax as part of a broader tax reform that detaches labour and, as has long been said, penalizes environmentally harmful products. finally, another element in our resolution is the extension of the scope of the buildings directive in favour of a broader insulation policy and better insulation of buildings. in other words, i would say that if bill clinton said in montreal that he liked kyoto, we know that the commission likes lisbon very much. we would like the commission to like göteborg more and i hope that you in particular will make your colleagues like göteborg more.
the commission may talk in its programme about, i quote, 'closing the communication gap' and, i quote again, 'strengthening the democratic foundations of the european project', but in practice we find that this is all just theory and that the commission itself very often pursues a policy which is fundamentally undemocratic. i am thinking, for example, of the way in which we, the citizens of europe, are being thrown down the throat of the accession negotiations with turkey, even though they have no democratic legitimacy whatsoever. second example. it is striking how the commission is turning against the joint initiative of national parliamentarians from across the european union to systematically test the commission's regulatory proposals against the principle of subsidiarity. the commission claims that this system is actually similar to, or nothing other than, the famous leakage system provided for in the european constitution, and so the commission says: the european parliament has been a very important instrument in the development of the european union. but if the commission is to be successful, other parts of the former european constitution are being applied and even made legally binding. for example, the fundamental rights agency regulation states that the fundamental rights agency is empowered to apply the charter of fundamental rights and that member states are required to respect these fundamental rights when applying union law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is something which should have been destroyed along with the european constitution, but which is now being made binding by the commission by means of a backdoor. if the commission is to do more than merely give lip service to the strengthening of democracy, it will have to change its approach fundamentally.
mr president, in the roure report we are faced once again with the identical refrain that we have been hearing for many years now and that we have been hearing almost continuously recently in the case of the riots of foreigners in france. the continuing problems with foreigners in our countries are entirely our fault, the fault of the reprehensible europeans who discriminate always and everywhere. it is a tune that is also heard in this report and has nothing to do with reality. but if we are looking for discrimination and lack of equal opportunities in europe, let us also talk about the call of women in muslim communities. in many parts of my own country, in many parts of the city of brussels for example, women are now systematically beaten or called whores by muslim immigrants who want to impose their prejudices on us. so let us talk about this, about this time bomb of the multicultural society that threatens essential achievements of our civilization.
i read in the roure report that the european year of equal opportunities 2007 is intended, among other things, to convey the message that everyone has the right to equal treatment. the promotion of respect and tolerance is also high on the agenda. given the politically correct content of the report and given the practice in the past, i have little illusions that the commission is making it clear to the muslim communities in europe that violence against jews and discrimination against women are unacceptable. for example, a 2002 study found that anti-semitic acts were mostly committed by muslims. this is of course not politically correct and the conclusions of this report have been thrown out. the most common and flagrant cases of discrimination are covered with the cloak of love. of course, hypocrisy has never killed anyone.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of a new european directive on batteries and accumulators and the management of their waste. the text has two objectives in a field where there are enormous disparities between the 25 member states: on the one hand, to make batteries and accumulators cleaner by considerably limiting the presence of heavy metals such as cadmium and mercury in their composition, and on the other, to organize better the collection and recycling of these products. belgium can be proud of a system which is a model for europe: a collection rate of 59%, whereas many other countries are stagnating at rates of less than 10%. the directive, drawing on the successful experience of the member states, sets ambitious collection targets: 40% after six years and 60% within ten years. these objectives cannot be achieved without a balanced policy which takes account of the whole economic chain and includes all the actors involved, from the producer to the consumer and the distributors. this is a fundamental rule for europe's future production and collection, for the benefit of the environment and consumers.
mr president, the fact that this parliament is about to award the sakharov prize makes me, in the circumstances, frankly disgusted by so much hypocrisy, because the withdrawal of the parliamentary immunity of our colleague mr gollnisch is not only a disgrace to this parliament but also a bad thing for democracy. it is not even necessary for us to comment on the merits of the case, because those who call themselves democrats must first of all be attached to the right of free expression of all those with whom they disagree. this parliament has a tradition of defending parliamentary immunity. i find it appalling that this has now been waived ad hoc for our colleague mr gollnisch. the robespierre, freisler, beria and their cowardly henchmen in this parliament are clearly not out of the woods yet.
i voted against the wallis report, mr president, because it goes against the tradition that parliament does not deal with the question of the waiver of immunity in the context of offences of opinion or alleged offences of opinion. if we start with this, mr president, we might as well abolish the very concept of parliamentary immunity.
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, if there is anything to be happy about in the aftermath of the recent summit in tunis, it is that it has had the positive effect of showing the world what too many people did not want to see, and still do not want to see, according to what i have just heard, namely that democracy is being trampled on every day in tunisia. i was indeed surprised, after questioning the commission and the council on my return from a mission there, at the timidity of their reactions to what can be described as a real violation of the eu-tunisia partnership agreement, at least the part of the agreement dealing with human rights. i dare to believe that this timidity is not directly linked to other prospects, in particular the organisation by the maghreb countries, as some would like, of a kind of police of our borders, in order to limit illegal immigration. but i am pleased with the statements i have heard today, particularly those of the commission. i hope that beyond these declarations and the resolution which we will, i am sure, vote on, we will have the opportunity to see concrete measures put in place and adopted very quickly in the form of an association council and a subcommittee on human rights. i would like to conclude, mr president, by simply asking that the tunisian civil society, which is being completely ignored today, be associated with this committee on human rights. it would be useful if she could have the opportunity to speak in this newly created committee.
mr president, i would like to anticipate some of the criticisms and reassure mr cousteau that there will be no media lynching of tunisia! on the contrary, it is important for us socialists to welcome, in a country which has certainly achieved impressive results in the socioeconomic field, a genuine democratic lifting of the shields by the trade unions, the human rights associations, the judiciary and lawyers, an impulse which must be able to be concretized through freedom of expression, association and assembly. this renewal is particularly evident in the committee of 18 october which will subsequently organise a permanent forum in which the socialists in this parliament wish to be associated. many people have said that the barcelona process was a semi-failure. it's true, we were afraid. europe is struggling to disseminate its pluralistic and democratic model. but today tunisia offers us a gift, almost a case study. the tunisians are not calling for our help, but they want more democracy. can we support those who, through sometimes bitter struggles, as all social struggles are, seek to open up and breathe a regime which tends to withdraw into itself, a regime which, in the name of the fight against terrorism, stigmatises all human rights defenders and prevents the judiciary and lawyers from meeting and organising? can we fight so that no socialist country can take advantage of its membership of the socialist international to trample on human rights? i have only one request: that the issue of human rights and the rule of law in tunisia be at the centre of the association council which is due to be held in january 2006 and that there be no talk of the wood.
president, madam commissioner, i have a short question in connection with product placement. it is indeed very remarkable that you are putting forward some new demands on this point. you have given the green light to product placement, and i understand that there is no other way, and you say that it should not be for children's or youth programmes, but it is not clear to me from the communication whether this also applies to non-linear supply, to the so-called on-demand supply. should that back door be closed or does the ban on product placement apply to all offers in the field of children's and youth programmes, including non-linear offers? so i would like to ask a short and clear question and i would like a clear answer.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs wortmann-kool, for the work she has done and, above all, for the result that is on the table today. the result, if all goes well, will be the provisional endpoint of a long and arduous negotiation. i say provisional, because there is still a lot of homework to be done on external costs, which is one of the major bottlenecks. the commission will have to develop a method of calculating external costs within two years and then a new initiative will have to be taken. some will argue that compromise amendment 37 does not go far enough. i have, of course, a lot of sympathy for that position, because i myself tabled an oral amendment in the committee on transport which goes a long way to keep the pressure on the boiler, to make faster progress on external costs, the famous 60% rule. we left this out of the compromise. it's all gonna take a little longer. this is a concession, indeed, but it is contrasted with the fact that the council, which in its common position had made no reference to external costs, has now had to make a 180° turn, and also that there is no way back: the principle of external costs in tolling will be accepted and applied. this is an important step forward towards fairer competition between modes of transport, based on the polluter pays principle. combined with the fact that the revenue from tolls will be able to be used for investment in the whole transport system and not just in roads, this means that opportunities are being created for alternative means of transport such as rail and inland waterway, and that is a great step forward.
president, commissioner frattini's reaction to the news that the cia was secretly transporting and interrogating terror suspects in europe was swift, energetic and forceful. if the european union were to act with the same energy, strength and speed against terrorism itself as it did against the alleged cia flights, we would certainly be on the right track. it is true that the fight against terrorism must be conducted within the framework of the rule of law, but the european union has a credibility problem. we are always prepared to observe a minute's silence for the victims of terrorist attacks such as those in madrid and london and even those of 11 september in new york and washington. but when it comes to taking measures and taking actions to help prevent such terrorist attacks in the future, we are not going to give up, we are primarily interested in safeguarding the rights of the terror suspects. the selective indignation in the european parliament is therefore misplaced. if the european union could produce just one concrete success in the fight against terrorism, the series of accusations against the united states might still be acceptable, but this is not the case. perhaps we should stop lecturing on morality now that it has become clear, for example, that the council will be making official contacts with organizations such as hamas and hezbollah following the palestinian parliamentary elections. hamas is not on the eu list of terrorist organisations! it is urgent that this hypocrisy be ended and that the legal framework for the fight against terrorism be adapted to the needs of today.
the president, mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the accusations we are facing are extremely serious. if confirmed, they clearly constitute breaches of the principles set out in article 6 of the treaty: the european union is committed to the promotion of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. since the last amendment to the convention, article 7 has provided for the possibility of taking action against a member state for serious breaches of these principles. such action may lead to the suspension of certain rights of that member state, including its right to vote. that is precisely why the greatest caution must be exercised. i personally think it would be too much to commit myself to the introduction of the article 7 mechanism now. of course, i too am very outraged by the alleged behaviour of the cia and i am very concerned that member states may have tolerated this behaviour, but outrage alone does not trigger a sanction mechanism. article 7 gives us, for the first time in the history of the european union, the possibility of taking action against member states' misconduct. the mechanism for this purpose may only be activated when sufficient and satisfactory elements have been collected. i trust that this parliament and its committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on foreign affairs will do so with the utmost care.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is proof that we in the european union can make social regulations, even if we like to dress them up as economic regulations. the final result of the negotiations shows that the european parliament can make a difference and i would like to thank rapporteur schwab and mrs weiler for the way they have handled this matter. it is thanks to parliament that consumer misinformation and the excessive administrative burden on our companies due to other than c1 labelling will no longer be possible. parliament also ensured that the most dangerous machinery could be subject to real controls and that this would not be a formality, but it is now up to the member states to make this directive into something real, an ambitious working instrument. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted, and that the member states are not forced to take action to ensure that the market is not distorted. the european commission, commissioner, should, in my view, monitor closely the commitment of the member states, check whether they are carrying out this market control and, if necessary, take action in the future if it appears that they are not keeping their promises, and this in the interests of workers, consumers and producers. we are now at the end of our work and i think we will be able to adopt this directive tomorrow.
president. - one of the problems with the continuing violations of human rights in communist china is the lack of a credible, consistent and coherent protest by the european union. we always give lip service to human rights, but we don't act on our words. the european union and most of its member states are more interested in china's economic potential than in human rights. the european council has tried to lift the arms embargo against china. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in china. i was also ashamed to learn some time ago that the belgian government had refused the dalai lama entry to its territory because it would be bad for our relations with communist china. ladies and gentlemen, we are now talking about the situation in tibet and hong kong, but we could add the threats to taiwan or the existence of the lao gai concentration camps in china. it is time for europe to send a strong signal, for example by inviting the dalai lama to this european parliament.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. a collection of critical journalists and citizens, diligent ngos and non-profit organizations, who, as spokespersons of civil society, uncoerced and uncensored control the state, the government, the administration and the parliament. not like this in russia. people or groups, businessmen and journalists who are too critical of the kremlin and putin's policies are silenced. as icing on the cake, the russian government now wants to silence domestic and foreign ngos as well. i am very pleased that six of the eight groups have succeeded in putting forward a joint resolution which puts the dots on the i. it is a support for people like mrs alekseyeva and mr gari kasparov. it supports the many who are active in ngos, such as alexander nikitin at belona, and ngos such as immemorial, greenpeace, social verdict and the civil society contact group. it also supports the words of my former co-chairman of the european parliament's committee on cooperation with russian parliaments, mr vladimir lukin, who clearly condemns the draft legislation in question. the resolution before us, mr president, deserves our support throughout the house.
