mr president, first of all i think we should express our gratitude to the members of the convention on the future of europe who have prepared this constitution and at the same time congratulate the heads of the member states who signed it on 29 october 2004. we must also not forget the president of the assembly, mr giscard d'estaing, to whom we must thank. i do not intend to repeat what has been said in favour of the constitution and at the same time say what is written in the rapporteurs' report and what the rapporteurs have said. i fully agree with what they have said and congratulate them on the excellent report they have produced. i would like to congratulate both mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo. the constitutional text we are discussing is certainly not perfect. that's what everyone's been saying. but it is the best that could be given today's political situation. it creates a more democratic and more functional union and makes it more credible and valid both externally and internally. the european union is a world history as a union of states that aims to serve values. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. humanitarian solidarity is also transferred to the national level by the provision of defence to a member state in the event of an attack against it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the adoption of a constitution for europe is a great step forward. it's a station on the way to the future. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the european union. it's their right! but they must respect one thing: that their governments, all governments, have signed this constitution. the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome for a long time, and it is not the council that has been the party to the treaty of rome.
mr president, commissioner, mr solana, the general impression we have gained from our experience as election observers is that the palestinians have undoubtedly succeeded, and perhaps for the first time under occupation, in holding democratic and free elections, which is a major political act, which sends political messages both to israel and to the entire international community. on 9 january the palestinian people sent a clear message of dignity, of absolute commitment to democracy, to peace and to the struggle for independence. the elections were held in a free and democratic manner with an increased participation of women and youth and for that they deserve congratulations. the problems which have affected mainly east jerusalem and the gaza strip have been caused by two things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i would like to ask the commissioner to make a few comments on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the day after the elections, however, opens up new prospects for the resumption of the peace process. the winner has clearly stated and expressed its intention to pursue a demilitarised and peaceful solution to the problem on the basis of international law, un resolutions and the road map. the new president, with his recent contacts with the armed groups, we believe he must have succeeded in persuading them to proceed with a unilateral ceasefire, an action which we hope will lead to a truce which will break the vicious circle of violence and will greatly help to restart the peace process. it also seems to be ready for a series of internal reforms aimed at economic, social and political development despite the unfavourable conditions of the occupation. the palestinian authority has been trying to get the peace process back on track, but the israeli government must also show goodwill. unfortunately, the building of the wall, which was so strongly condemned by the international community, including by the international court of justice, is still going on, as is the settlement. the road map for the establishment of an independent palestinian state was to be adopted in 2005. yet 2005 is here, with no such prospect in sight. we, as the european union and parliament in particular, have a very important role to play in trying to restart talks and find a final solution to the problem. beyond the theoretical level, through resolutions and so on, we must also, in a more practical way, exert pressure in all directions for substantive talks that will lead in 2005 to significant progress and a short-term final solution to the problem, a solution which can only include the establishment of an independent palestinian state in peaceful coexistence with the state of israel and, of course, the demolition of the wall and the end of the occupation, so that the two peoples can build a peaceful future which will contribute to peace and progress for the whole of the much-vulnerable region of the wider middle east. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, parliament’s election observation mission to palestine in which i had the privilege to participate has concluded that the elections were to a very large extent free and fair. the palestinian people now have a legitimate president and a valid interlocutor to negotiate peace with israel. president abbas needs to be given both the time and encouragement to consolidate his position and to implement his electoral programme, that is, firstly to end the armed intafada and prioritise the political process, and secondly, to proceed to the necessary internal institutional and – in particular – security reforms. the news of recent days indicates that there are already some positive effects on the ground. the deployment of palestinian policemen in northern gaza and the reported progress in talks with the armed factions have led to four days of calm followed possibly by a ceasefire. given the precarious nature of such ceasefires, it will be helpful that substantial gestures – such as the lifting of the restrictions of movement, the freezing of settlement activity, the halting of the construction of the separation wall and extra-judicial killings – will go a long way towards creating the favourable context of this window of opportunity. the decision by the eu to send such a large mission to assist and observe the election, and to nominate as its head an eminent member of this parliament, was commendable, as it made our presence felt both locally and internationally. great efforts on the eu’s behalf are now needed within the context of the quartet, to encourage both sides to capitalise on the developments in the interests of peace. the objective is to resume negotiations, which will regenerate hope. hope strengthens moderation, frustration allows extremists to thrive. that is the only way the vicious circle can be broken.
mr president, 60 years ago today the auschwitz concentration camp was liberated. on days like this, we are called each year to honor the struggles and resistance of millions of people whose every form of difference has been the cause of their extinction. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. by keeping this sad piece of human history alive in our memory and in our minds, we owe it to those who sacrificed and to those who will come to fight against all forms of expansionist policies, plans of imposition and global domination. in paying tribute today to all the victims of nazism and every other racist extremist movement, we must demand the banning of all forms of nazi and fascist symbols and continue the struggle so that they and those who follow them are permanently excluded from modern reality.
mr president, a few days ago in cyprus a terrible, atrocious crime took place. a father, a mother and their 15-year-old daughter were abducted from their home and shot at close range just outside nicosia in the unoccupied part of cyprus. five turkish cypriots are very strongly suspected of being the assailants in this case. the cypriot police issued warrants for their arrest but unfortunately they have managed to cross into the occupied part of cyprus. in the occupied part of cyprus, illegal police are holding them and are protecting them against being handed over to the legal cypriot police. i ask you to use your offices, mr president, to convince the illegal regime in the occupied part of cyprus, and perhaps also to convince the turkish government which is their guardian, to hand them over to the legal police to be tried.
madam president, many thanks are due to mrs ries for her hard work on this report. human health, both physical and mental, is directly related to the environment we live in. most disease processes are the result of interactions between our bodies and various environmental factors. this is common sense. an environment and health action plan should have two main goals: firstly, to identify quickly the main environmental health risk factors and, secondly, to eliminate or minimise their effect on human health as soon as possible. this is also common sense. the action plan proposed by the commission is, unfortunately, more planning and less action. it is principally concerned with improving information and research relating to environmental pollutants and disease causation, and enhancing environment health communication procedures between member states. it eventually aims to help improve human health. is this common sense? on one hand yes, because information, research and cooperation in environment-health interaction matters are always a good thing, but, we do not necessarily need more time- and money-consuming, research-related mechanisms in order to act fast and save lives now. we already know which main environment hazards kill people, so it would be common sense to concentrate first on these and try to eliminate them quickly and efficiently. an obvious example is smoking. we know that both active and passive smoking kills hundreds of thousands of people in europe every year. we also know that the only effective way to reduce the deadly habit of smoking is to drastically increase the price of cigarettes, to ban cigarette advertising completely and to stop our farmers from producing tobacco. is this what we are doing? not quite! a packet of cigarettes is still relatively cheap in many eu member states; cigarette advertising, in particular indirect advertising, which is more effective because it acts subconsciously, is still happening and we are still subsidising many of our farmers to grow tobacco. this is definitely not common sense. in conclusion, i say 'yes' to research and information for combating long-term environment-related diseases we do not know much about, but i urge the commission to say 'yes' to immediate drastic action to prevent the diseases we already are very familiar with today.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. the contribution of environmental pollution is enormous to the development of cancer, a disease which will affect one in three europeans in their lifetime. i would also like to make a prediction, commissioner: with the progress made in cardiology, interventional medicine and surgery today, do not be surprised if cancer becomes the number one cause of death in the european union in a few years' time. but prevention of cancer and other diseases is necessary and clearly more cost-effective than further treatment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore in the interests of the community that the measures to combat it should be introduced. unfortunately, in the reach draft the commission is limiting itself to declarations and delaying the identification of legislative measures and specific funds for their implementation on the grounds that further research is needed. as mrs ries said, the plan is more of an evaluation than an action. there are numerous authoritative scientific studies on substances harmful to the environment and human health, which makes us wonder which interests the commission is protecting: the european citizen's or the interests of big business? the urgent need to withdraw from the european market certain dangerous substances mentioned in the report is particularly acute when safer alternatives are on the market. in this case, inter alia, the alleged lack of information should not be used as a justification for inaction. it is also essential to find resources both for research, which naturally needs to be intensified, and for the prevention of diseases linked to environmental causes. the plan does not suggest any recourse to the precautionary principle. nor does it specify where the money will come from. in addition, resources are needed to inform the public and professionals about the cleanliness of workplaces and indoor and outdoor areas frequented by children, the smoking - active and passive - envisaged by the project, and other factors. i would like to stress here the vulnerability of low-income groups, who, because of their economic or social position, are disproportionately exposed to environmental risks, as are workers in unhealthy occupations. i would like to conclude, madam president, by expressing the hope that both the european commission and the european council will take seriously the report by mrs ries, whom i congratulate on her work.
mr president, the relationship with our mediterranean partners is one of interdependence. the barcelona process is based on the principle of mutual benefit. on the one hand, member states are primarily keen to tackle issues such as immigration, terrorism and human rights. on the other, mediterranean partners are eager to increase their standard of living and benefit through economic aid and trade. the solution is, of course, to address the gap between the union and the mediterranean region. reduce the prosperity gap, and you slow migratory flows. address the democracy gap, and you consolidate regional stability. the theory is simpler than the practice. the barcelona process has tried to do all this, with moderate results. we have been lacking in three areas: visibility – convincing people that we are in this together on all issues; prioritisation – trying to do everything, but ending up doing little; and implementation – through financing. surely, if member states see tangible results, they will be more forthcoming in committing funds. our mediterranean partners are asking for more money in order to produce these results. ingenuity is needed to break this 'chicken and egg' situation.
acting president of the council. mr president, i think that there are not many parliaments which are as sensitive as this one to the problems of underdevelopment, poverty, the fight against hunger and development. i believe that this is all to the credit of the european parliament, which has an important role to play in the development cooperation policy of the european union. i think there are indeed times when indignation is appropriate. mr bowis quoted figures, indeed horrendous figures, which show that behind the statistics there are human beings who suffer from this relentless law of hunger and who die every day, every minute. so this moment of outrage is useful. but as someone said, after indignation, there must be action. i would like to say that the european union has nothing to be ashamed of either. i don't think she should feel guilty. it is the largest donor of development aid. but i also admit that the help we give is not enough. that is why we have set ourselves more ambitious targets for those well below 0.7%. on the other hand, for those who have reached or even exceeded 0.7%, which in the present budgetary context is not always obvious, it is essential to maintain the course. it should also be stressed that the approach to the fight against hunger, against underdevelopment and against poverty can only be a global one. that is why it is important to talk about the means of financing and first of all to respect the commitments that have been made. additional and alternative sources of funding must be sought. but all this only makes sense if it is part of a global approach, as someone has said, which also takes account of commercial aspects. i would also like to say that the european union is not entirely wrong. there is a problem with certain policies, and agricultural policy issues have been mentioned. but here again, the european union is probably the region in the world which has opened its markets to developing countries' exports the most. the previous commission initiative, more specifically by pascal lamy, entitled everything but arms, is aimed at the poorest countries. i believe that we must build on what has already been achieved, which is not insignificant. but we know that the stakes are enormous and that time is running out - we do not have decades and decades ahead of us - in an increasingly globalised world, and i believe that europe cannot feel that it is immune to these problems, that it is a spectator. we are both actors, by force of circumstances, but we also suffer directly from the effects of this poverty. when thousands of people come to us on makeshift rafts, it is a consequence of poverty and misery. so i think we need to take a global approach. we must now set up a monitoring system and we must not be afraid to say, if necessary, that the efforts have not been sufficient. i believe that we are gradually going to establish an even more effective policy in europe in this area, to which your parliament attaches great importance.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to emphasize again what the honourable member has just said: the fight against hunger is of course important and it is also a moral obligation for all of us. but i would like to give you the figures for the aid that the european union, as the world's largest donor, if we add up the commission and the member states, provided in 2003, for example. at that time, it was 32 billion euros. for 2006, if trends continue, it is estimated to be around eur 46 billion. we must of course continue our efforts to reach the un target of 0.7%, but we must also see these figures in concrete terms: the commission budget alone provides €7 billion a year for development services. i agree with you on one thing. it was said by mr. yañez-barnuevo: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all know that the doha round and the big round in hong kong are very, very important here. the commission is currently negotiating economic partnership agreements with the acp countries, which are also moving towards trade. we want to further liberalize access to the eu market for developing countries. the commission also intends to continue to help developing countries to strengthen their economic strength so that they can benefit from the opening up of markets. i noticed that this morning we were always talking about human rights, the rule of law, the rule of law, and also good governance. we never talked about it this afternoon. and monterrey is talking about exactly that: there has to be a matching approach on both sides. the developing countries must also uphold these principles, otherwise our money is wasted and it is tax money that is wasted. i would like to say to our polish colleague, who is unfortunately no longer here - but he will be informed - that poverty in poland is certainly sad, but that is why the european union has the cohesion fund and the structural funds, and it is up to the polish government to use them accordingly. i would like to say to mrs martens that you are absolutely right. i myself was, until recently, not only foreign minister but also secretary of state for development cooperation, and i have always focused on women, because they are an important factor in the development of a family and of an economy as a whole. but smes are also enormously important in the sense of a bottom-up approach. in conclusion, it is very important for us to reiterate that the mdgs should determine the direction of development cooperation. the commission will be working very closely with parliament on this and we hope that the so-called millennium package can be adopted as early as 22 march. the package consists of four communications: one overarching communication describing our contribution to the un millennium conference and three others, each discussing in detail one aspect of our efforts. we shall of course continue to discuss the financing.
hunger and poverty are no longer only a humanitarian issue. according to the recommendations of the un high level panel on threats, challenges and change, hunger and poverty along with the hiv epidemic and environmental degradation, constitute a threat to world security, over and above the traditional threats facing humanity at present (eg terrorism). these threats are interrelated, and a threat to one is a threat to all. the world bank estimates that the september 11 attacks increased the number of people living in poverty by 10 million. poverty, as measured by per capita gdp, is strongly related with the outbreak of civil wars: 12% probability when less than 1000usd and 2.5% when it reaches 4000usd. meeting the millennium development goals and decisions taken in johannesburg and monterrey is the right direction. reducing trade barriers, increasing development assistance and providing debt relief are obligations of the developed countries. it is true that not all member states, particularly the newcomers, including my own, can meet the obligation of contributing the 0,7% of their national income. i urge the council to take a collective decision on this issue so that every m.s presents a multiannual programme by which it commits itself to reach the 0.7% target and in the meantime the remaining to be complimented through the eu budget.
acting president of the council. mr. mordechai vanunu was released on parole last april. he was subject to restrictions against which he lodged an appeal which was rejected by the israeli supreme court on the grounds that there is a persistent risk of disclosure of information affecting the security of the state of israel. restrictions are limited in time and subject to revision. respect for human rights and democratic principles is the basis of relations between the union and israel. according to article 2 of the association agreement between the european union and israel, which entered into force on 1 june 2000, these provisions constitute an essential element of the agreement, which informs the internal and international policies of both parties. the european union will continue to ensure that the commitments made are respected in the context of the political dialogue with the israeli authorities and the implementation of the neighbourhood action plan.
madam president, mr minister, thank you for your reply, which unfortunately does not satisfy me because it does not answer my question. the council is obviously playing a theatre of the absurd. i asked you whether the council intends to make any recommendations to the israeli government to restore the democratic rights of the vanunu, and you surrealistically replied that israel is a democratic state and, within the framework of its neighbourhood policy with the european union, will continue to respect the commitments it has made. you are setting the wrong example once again, mr minister, with your provocative attitude. i did not expect you to answer that you would go personally to free vanunu, but i would at least expect the council to defend freedom of thought. in this context, i would like to ask you if you find it positive that vanunu is still in prison ... (the president interrupts)
mr president, i congratulate mr maštálka on a truly excellent report. the rapporteur exposes, in no uncertain terms, the inadequate and unacceptable way in which the commission has dealt with the issue of health and safety at work over the last few years. he makes concrete and logical suggestions on how to remedy the situation. the importance of having proper legislation in this field and its effective and speedy implementation is clear. the current situation is totally unsatisfactory and the human cost involved is enormous. each year in the 25 eu member states, approximately 400 000 workers become permanently disabled because of a workplace-related accident or disease. each year it is estimated that about 8 000 people die as a result of work-related accidents or disease. the economic cost is equally vast. it is estimated to be about three to four per cent of gnp. so why has the commission been so complacent in dealing with this hugely important matter? is it due to mere inadequacy and naivety? or is it due to excessive pressure from employers, many of whom have not yet managed to comprehend the simple fact that it makes good economic sense to have high standards of health and safety at work? we expect and must insist that we get clear answers from the commission on this issue. we also expect that the new commissioner will do his utmost to put right the deficiencies of the past. i would like to make two suggestions for further consideration. first, more attention should be paid not just to the health of workers in the workplace, but also to their families. many of the toxic substances that workers are exposed to at work can be carried home, for example by way of their clothing. second, a publicly-available blacklist of employers with proven bad records for poor hygiene and accidents should be established. employers with the best health and safety standards should be publicly lauded and suitably rewarded. this way, consumers will be able to know who is worthy of their business support and who is not.
mr president, nepal, one of the poorest countries in asia, has had a very troublesome recent history not least because of the rebellion by powerful maoist forces, which has been going on for the last nine years. in this period more than 11 000 people have been killed. in june 2001 the king of nepal was murdered, along with other members of the royal family. his brother, gyanendra, was crowned as the new king. gyanendra's democratic credentials have never been too obvious, quite the contrary. he has followed the line of aggravating confrontation with the rebels and he has side-stepped the country's political forces. in 2001-2002 a state of emergency was declared which led to an explosion of serious human rights violations, including extrajudicial killings and torture. despite this, the king continued to enjoy the support of western nations, including eu member states, i am sorry to say. on 1 february this year, the king, supported by the royal nepalese army, dismissed the government, assumed direct power and again declared a state of emergency. as expected, widespread human rights violations ensued. this joint motion calls on the king to lift the state of emergency, to restore all fundamental democratic freedoms, including freedom of the media, and re-establish parliamentary powers. it also calls on the council and the commission to take practical measures such as imposing an embargo on military assistance to force the king to give up his dictatorship.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, charles taylor, the former warlord president of liberia, is alleged to have been responsible for gross human rights violations, including thousands of killings, widespread torture, massive forced displacement of populations and the breakdown of social and economic structures, over the ten year period of his rule over liberia. in july 2003, taylor fled the country and accepted the nigerian government's offer of asylum. in march 2003, charles taylor was indicted by the prosecutor of the special court of sierra leone on 17 counts of crimes against humanity and war crimes, including murder, mutilation, rape, sexual slavery and the recruitment of child soldiers. it is an insult to international law and an affront to human dignity that this alleged mass murderer continues to be given refuge by nigeria. the nigerian government not only has a duty to humanity, but also has the obligation under the geneva convention, which it has ratified, immediately to surrender the infamous charles taylor to the jurisdiction of the special court of sierra leone, so that he can be tried, and if found guilty and punished accordingly. if it fails to do so, it should and will face the justifiably serious consequences from both the eu, and the international community in general. we should ask ourselves one question: why has it taken 14 years of rule by taylor in liberia, with him having already carried out all his terrors, before we decided to take some decisive action? (applause)
mr president, the european union, in accordance with the european constitution, aims at full employment and social progress, combats social exclusion and discrimination and promotes social justice and protection. the commission's report shows how far we are from these objectives: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new type of vaccine. violence against women and inequality between men and women have not disappeared. by the way, today is women's day. how can we really work towards the elimination of violence against women and the family when the results of the daphne i research are still not being exploited? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, the lisbon strategy has so far proved inadequate in tackling the social deficits in the union. the charter of fundamental rights of the union places people at the heart of its action. the council and the commission are talking about progress and an increase in the average wage in the various social sectors. but the minimum levels of political and social rights of each citizen, as defined by the charter, are not assessed in average terms but on an individual basis. sustainable development and social justice make sense not only when the overall indicator of economic and human well-being is increased, but also when social cohesion is promoted. the main objective of the union must therefore not only be to make the lives of the majority of its citizens better, but above all to make the poor lives of any minority at least better. it is time for radical decisions and effective action. the responsibility lies with the commission and each member state of the european union. the lisbon roadmap should be adapted to the new situation. the aim is a life of dignity for every european citizen: for all european citizens without exception.
mr president, each year hundreds of thousands of couples are sentenced to a childless life because the woman is unable to produce eggs. the situation can now be rectified through egg donation. two main ethical questions arise. firstly, is it justifiable for the egg-donor woman to be subjected to the necessary medical preparation treatment, which is not entirely without risk? secondly, is it justifiable for the woman to have this done and be compensated for it? a properly controlled and regulated system, under which healthy, consenting women, fully counselled and screened, donate their eggs, is both ethical and desirable. such a system could function with an absolute minimum of acceptable risk to all involved. it could provide high-level medical service and much happiness for many couples, while at the same time ensuring much-needed financial assistance to young women, many of whom will use this help in order to care better for their existing families. the principal concern is the risk of exploitation. the surest way to make this happen is, of course, to drive the egg-donation service underground. so let us not shy away from the realities of modern human needs. let us not bury the opportunities that medical advances offer to our citizens. let us not destroy the family dreams of thousands of loving couples and deny them the happiness of childbearing. let us direct our efforts towards controlling and guiding, rather than suppressing, punishing, scaring … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, i would like to say a great many things, but i will limit myself to very few, because i do not want to go back to the history that is already known to you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. it is a very nice attempt by mrs mcavan to convince us that these things do not happen, but as a doctor i know they do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, today i received an e-mail from mrs záborská, which she sent to all members on a united nations general assembly resolution - no 59516 - on this subject, which mrs záborská did not mention in her speech. if that is so, then we should allow the trade in other organs, for a fee, such as finding kidneys. we know the wild market in kidney transplants is mainly in the far east and the middle east. we know too many of these incidents. but i want to focus on the side effects. for healthy women who for their own reasons - for reasons of fertility - do not use this method but to become donors. the side effects, which are significant, have been reported by other colleagues. there have been reports of deaths, but they haven't been scientifically proven yet, but i think that's a good reason for a woman to think twice before making a decision like that. and it is a pity, on this day of women's day, to discuss such a subject as the exploitation of poor women in romania.
mr president, as the president-in-office of the council said a moment ago, the spring european council will deal mainly with the stability and growth pact and the lisbon strategy, which is considered to have failed and needs to be revised. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the changes proposed in the stability pact and in the lisbon strategy itself cannot make the latter more pro-people. it is paradoxical and absurd to talk about creating the most productive economy on the planet on the one hand and wanting to reduce budgets and therefore less cohesion on the other. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external relations is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle which is also reflected in the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, the standards of medical practice and care in libya leave a lot to be desired. there is a lack of local medical staff, medical expertise and training, as well as of proper medical facilities and equipment. the problem is more prominent in large, overcrowded city hospitals serving largely poor, underdeveloped urban areas, like the al fatah hospital in benghazi. it was in that hospital, back in 1998, that an outbreak of hiv infection was discovered, affecting approximately 400 children. that outbreak was no surprise to western experts as they knew that the hygiene conditions in that hospital were abysmal and that it was only a matter of time before such a major infection catastrophe occurred. the libyan government needed a scapegoat, which was found in the form of five nurses from bulgaria and one doctor from palestine. in countries like libya, getting signed confessions under torture and setting up staged trials is no difficult task. while the international community stood back and watched, these six medical workers, who went to libya in order to offer their services for the benefit of the libyan people, were sentenced to death in 2004. they were found guilty of the ludicrous charge of deliberately infecting the children in the benghazi hospital with hiv. it was alleged by colonel gaddafi himself that they did this as part of a cia and mossad plot to destabilise the country. how can the situation now be remedied? first of all, the eu must take concrete action. i propose the following three steps. firstly, the president of the european parliament should request the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to send a small delegation immediately to visit the imprisoned medical workers in libya and to see colonel gaddafi and convey to him the strong wish of parliament that these medical workers are pardoned and released immediately. secondly, the eu, in collaboration with the world health organisation, should immediately send a team of medical experts to libya to assess the situation in relation to the hiv epidemic in the country and offer expert advice and help to deal with the problem. thirdly, the eu should take further drastic initiatives in order quickly to lead libya out of the isolation imposed by the western world from 1992 to 2003. such actions, if effective, would be of mutual benefit to the eu in terms of trade enhancement, and to the people of libya in terms of improving their standard of living.
mr president, commissioner, the people of cambodia have suffered extensively for many decades from the catastrophic effects of a totalitarian government and high-level official corruption. at present, those in the country who have fought endlessly for justice and reform are once again under severe government-led persecution. they include the three opposition leaders, sam rainsy, chea poch and cheam channy, whose parliamentary immunity was recently lifted for obvious political reasons and using dubious and groundless proceedings. in passing this resolution we, the representatives of the european people, want to convey a strong and clear message to the autocratic rulers in phnom penh and to those who support them that the friends of cambodia will not turn a blind eye to the ongoing attempts to eliminate the democratic opposition in that country. they will continue to support wholeheartedly those pluralistic political forces that are fighting for reform, democracy, freedom of expression and social justice.
mr president, commissioner, a country that in the 21st century does not allow women to exercise their voting rights, surely cannot be included on the list of the world's democracies. a country that in the 21st century treats women socially and politically the way that saudi arabia does, unquestionably cannot be regarded as a civilised nation. such a country should have been subjected to the most fierce international pressure and total isolation until drastic reforms were urgently brought about. yet we europeans, who pride ourselves on being the guardians of human rights and the defenders of gender equality, do nothing more than pass semi-polite, mildly reprimanding resolutions which we know for sure will have not the slightest impact. at the same time, we continue through lucrative trade and defence contracts – some member states more than others – to fully support the dictatorial regime in power in saudi arabia. it is shameful.
mr president, a twenty-year-old turkish woman suffering from leukaemia will soon die unless she is given a bone marrow transplant from a compatible donor. cyprus has one of the largest bone marrow transplant banks in europe. two greek cypriot donors have been found and are available to donate their bone marrow to the turkish patient. unfortunately, the turkish authorities are putting various politically-based obstacles in the way of the transfer of the bone marrow graft from cyprus to turkey. mr president, would you, as a matter of urgency, use your good offices to contact the turkish government in order to urge them to assist in this humanitarian issue and prove that the fight against cancer has no boundaries in europe.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. how does the main objective of implementing policies to protect human rights fit in with the incorporation of biometric data in the passports of its citizens? how is it right to make decisions that violate basic freedoms? the hague programme, as set out in the november european council conclusions, calls for security to be urgently addressed and made a priority, particularly in the light of the terrorist attacks of 11 september 2001 in the united states and 11 march in madrid. the path the union is taking is the sacrifice of human freedoms. the hague programme serves the policy of separating its citizens from those of third countries, who are constantly being photographed as the source of most evils. the union itself, in the name of freedom and justice, is promoting xenophobia and building walls, making citizens of developing countries into second-class citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's vice-president mr president, first of all i am pleased that the european parliament has supported this proposal. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr demetriou, in particular. the commission is in principle in favour of some of the amendments tabled and will support them during the negotiations in the council. this is the case with the concept of national units, which is rejected by the majority of the delegation, but for which we could accept a change in wording as proposed by the rapporteur. we could accept the term 'point of contact' suggested in the compromise of the presidency, which seems to be inspired by the same logic. the same applies to the amendment to allow the council to terminate the director's term of office for failure to act, at the request of the board of directors. we also support the budgetary amendments. on the other hand, as regards the possibility for parliament to be represented by an observer on the administrative board, we can only refer to the european parliament's resolution of 13 january 2004 on the framework for regulatory agencies and to the draft interinstitutional agreement on the framework for agencies, adopted of course by the commission on 25 february 2005. the document states that parliament should not be involved in the administrative board. in fact, it was parliament itself, as a branch of the budgetary authority, which realised that from an ethical point of view this was not a healthy situation, since it is parliament which gives the discharge to the agency.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of the two preceding issues and in particular the statements by both minister frieden and commissioner frattini have confirmed and substantiated the position that the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice is a fundamental policy and a central objective of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's police forces are properly trained and equipped to deal with the most serious crimes. the continuous modernisation and upgrading of police training in each member state of the union is therefore a necessary condition for the promotion of political freedom, security and justice. the contribution of the european police college to the union's efforts to develop an area of freedom, security and justice during its successful three years of operation is undeniable. it is widely acknowledged that the implementation by the academy of common police training programmes, based on the experience of all the national police academies of the member states of the union, has led to the adoption at european level of common training standards and methods. the commission has rightly decided to upgrade the academy. the establishment of the academy's permanent seat in bromsill, united kingdom, its integration into the union's organisational structure, making it its 17th institution, the granting of legal personality, in particular, and the incorporation of the academy's budget into the union's budget are all actions which we have, from the outset, fully endorsed. the amendments to the commission proposal which we have tabled and which have been approved by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs are aimed at making the academy work more collectively, efficiently and effectively. these amendments shall achieve the following: the central responsibility for the operation of the academy remains with the transnational board of directors. the staff shall be appointed in accordance with the union regulations. the relations of the academy with the national police training institutes are balanced, instead of the academy setting up national units in each member state, which would cause confusion and perhaps misunderstanding that there is interference in the member states. each member state shall establish a liaison unit responsible for the implementation of the common police training programmes in the national police training centres. the european parliament will have the right to send an observer, in our view, to the academy's governing board and, in any case, it will have the right to control the academy's activities through the union budget. we do not seem to be holding to that view, and commissioner frattini has expressed his view, and he is respected, but we can certainly find a compromise here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. both these institutions agree, in principle, with the amendments of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and approve the proposal as amended and adopted unanimously by our committee, with the exception of the point raised by commissioner frattini in relation to the participation of the european parliament as an observer, if it so wishes, in the academy's governing board. i believe that the amendments tabled by the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs improve the proposal. i therefore hope that all colleagues and all the political groups will give their positive vote on my report as it stands next wednesday.
member of the commission. i completely agree with the honourable member and take his point. we shall pay particular attention to this issue. you are right that we cannot, on the basis of our own treaty, question a potential member state’s right to have recourse to nuclear energy if it plans and builds a nuclear energy plant on the basis of all the rules and regulations and respects nuclear security. but in any case nuclear security will be a core issue, especially if there is a reason to focus on that issue. turkey is not yet at the construction stage. it is at the planning stage.
just a suggestion, madam president: would it be possible, in order for this session to be more efficient in terms of time, to plan ahead so that we know which questions will be answered? that way we do not have to wait for an hour and a half and then not have the question answered. for example, there could be a time constraint on the answers as well as on the questions.
mr president, although the president of the council has left and the president of the commission is busy with a debate, i will say what i have to say. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the changes proposed in the stability pact and in the lisbon strategy itself cannot make the latter more pro-people. it is paradoxical and absurd to talk about creating the most productive economy on the planet and at the same time wanting to reduce budgets and therefore less cohesion. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external relations is a very important one. the european left as a whole disagrees. we are calling for a genuine social state in europe with full employment as its objective. to establish a strategy aimed at a high standard of living without sacrificing the need to increase competitiveness. the so-called 'flexible working hours' which are so corrosive to the social fabric must be abolished. to introduce a real 35 hours with no reduction in pay, which will mean hiring more people. we are facing a strategy of unilateral growth to the benefit of big business and the private sector. we will continue our efforts to get the governments of the european commission and the council to adopt positions which will remove accounting logic in favour of an anthropocentric logic. this can only be achieved by radical changes to the stability pact and the lisbon strategy.
mr president, stability and growth depend on a healthy economy. the eu’s economy is suffering daily, sometimes to the tune of millions of euro, due to the embargo imposed by turkey on eu shipping. this embargo was intended in theory to be against cyprus, but in practice it is against the whole of the eu. i shall explain why with the following example. a german-owned ship with a french flag carrying british goods for a spanish company will be prevented from entering a turkish port if it is discovered that a member of the board of the goods handling company previously had a business connection with a cypriot company. this is illegal and absurd and there is no excuse for the council and the commission to tolerate such aggressive behaviour by a candidate country for one day longer. i would like briefly to raise another issue. two days ago, hurriyet, a daily newspaper with a large circulation and the mouthpiece of the turkish government, reported that the council and the commission had been working together on what sounds like a conspiracy to essentially isolate and destabilise the cypriot government in order to force it to accept an unpopular solution to the cyprus issue. i know that this report is nonsense, but it has been misused for the purposes of turkish propaganda and has caused my constituents concern. i urge you to state here today that it is utterly false and farcical.
author.– mr president, instead of being associated with joy and happiness, lampedusa – a beautiful island basking lazily in the hot mediterranean sun – has become synonymous with pain and human suffering of tragic proportions. the southernmost piece of eu land reaching out as though to link europe with africa is the graveyard of the hopes and sometimes the lives of thousands of immigrant men, women and children; desperate people who are either running away from torture and death or are just seeking to achieve a better way of life. their only crime is that they had a dream, which they thought had a slim chance of becoming reality in the otherwise civilised europe; a dream of being in a land where they would feel safe and be treated as human beings. a dream that for many of them soon turned into a nightmare, when they discovered that the strict allegiance to the principles of respect for human life and dignity, so eloquently and loudly pronounced on every possible occasion by some european governments, is just a big illusion when it comes to lampedusa. the responsible authorities are ready, willing and able, in gross violation of international conventions and treaties and against widespread condemnation, to hand them back to those murderous totalitarian regimes in africa from which they are so desperately seeking to escape. let us not beat about the bush: lampedusa is a bloodstain of shame for the italian government, for acting in such an irresponsible, inhumane and un-european way. it is also a bloodstain of shame for the commission and the council for not taking any effective action to remedy the situation and bring the italian government to order. as far as the libyan government is concerned, its deeply shameful behaviour in the lampedusa affair is understandable, as we expect nothing less from an undemocratic regime. i strongly urge you to support this joint motion for a resolution.
mr president, two days ago a four-year-old girl was killed in my constituency after being hit by a car in front of her mother. the enormity of the grief that such a catastrophic event can bring to a family is difficult to comprehend and impossible to describe. unfortunately, such tragic occurrences are happening daily and in great numbers in one part or another of our union. road traffic accidents are in fact the commonest cause of death of children in europe today. this is a shameful and totally unacceptable statistic for a civilised society such as ours. the slaughtering of our children on the roads must be stopped. mr president, can i call upon you to personally contact all the european heads of state and use your persuasive powers to impose upon them the urgent need to involve themselves in a serious, continuous and effective crusade to improve road safety, especially for children? i also suggest that efforts be made to establish a widely publicised blacklist of shame, in which the 25 member states are ranked according to the number of children killed on the roads per head of population each year.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are not depleted. their pollution affects rivers, lakes and precious ecosystems, raises the cost of drinking water and threatens its security of supply. the commission proposal on the protection of groundwater needs to be improved, especially since it can take decades to clean it up. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of groundwater is not affected by pollution. we need a proposal that protects against pollution with defined criteria and limits, and member states should be obliged to make periodic reports on the state of their waters and the measures they have taken to ensure their effectiveness. amendment no 94, which proposes the identification and prevention of toxic persistent and bioaccumulative pollutants and establishes a procedure for control by the member states, is a positive attempt to improve exposure. according to the european environment agency, 87% of european groundwater does not meet the criteria for nitrates, and 10 out of 11 countries report a risk of water contamination from herbicides. we need strict criteria for nitrates and herbicides, so i urge you to vote in favour of amendments nos 101 and 102. another is groundwater ecosystems, where the tiny fauna and flora contribute to improved groundwater quality and better drinking water quality. amendments nos 96 and 98 introduce groundwater protection areas, while amendments nos 95 and 100 call for further research into this ecosystem, and i therefore urge you to vote for them.
member of the commission. mr president, it is almost a year since the ten new member states joined the european union. as of 1 may 2004, the european commission is by far the largest single market in the world, encompassing 25 countries and more than 450 million people. before may 2004, some critics said that the enlargement of the european union was happening too fast and lacking in adequate preparation, that the candidate countries were not yet ready and that it would all end disastrously and painfully. on may 1, 2004, the big bang did not happen. the enlargement was well prepared and i would add that the new member states have shown a positive attitude, efficiency and dedication in preparing for their accession. today, when the enlarged union is almost 12 months old, we see that the european union, and in particular the ten new member states, have made particularly impressive progress. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the internal market, including the introduction of the single market in the new member states. the commission considers that the delegation of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection visiting poland could point to many more such successes. the commission would like to thank the european parliament for this important own-initiative report. we are particularly pleased with the european parliament's draft resolution on the internal market in the new member states. almost a year after the enlargement of the european union, mrs handzlik's report - as we can see with satisfaction - gives a very thorough overview of the largely positive picture of the functioning of the internal market in the new member states. the analysis and recommendations contained in the report summarise the achievements and objectives for the smoothest possible functioning of the internal market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the proper transposition of community legislation is a prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the internal market. the member states must fulfil their obligations; some do very well, others fall short. but what is really impressive in the new member states is the achievements of the last two years. in particular, the new member states are doing very well in transposing community legislation into national law. according to the most recent data, lithuania is in first place among the 25 member states with a transport deficit of just 1%. some old member states are not doing as well. the member states must take more seriously the 1.5% target agreed at various european council meetings. further efforts are also needed to ensure the timely and correct transposition of the internal market directives. the conclusions of the resolution are in full agreement with the commission's position, for example, on the need for closer administrative cooperation between the authorities of the member states, as is already the case with the solvit problem-solving network. these out-of-court dispute settlement procedures satisfy market operators and contribute positively to the functioning of the internal market in europe. it is clear that the new member states are not just advertising but are, on the contrary, keen to improve their performance and create a fertile ground for innovation to flourish, which is very encouraging. this is precisely the approach that will ensure the success of the internal market. it should be borne in mind that the proper functioning of the internal market is one of the basic conditions for achieving the lisbon objectives. i would add, however, that the commission should also do its part. instead of producing more and more legislation, we should now take the opportunity to focus on doing less and better. this includes simplifying legislation in close cooperation with the new member states as well as the old ones, but also providing better information and guidance on consumer rights and on the opportunities for citizens to work and settle in an enlarged union. in the years ahead we must make the european union a more attractive place for business and investment, and the creation of a modern and successful internal market is certainly an important first step towards achieving this goal. we are counting on the support of the european parliament to meet this challenge. in conclusion, i would like to say this: we are optimistic and believe that the new member states are bringing new strength to the european union and fresh air to the benefit of us all.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the left group is really very surprised to hear the report refer to the unquestionable economic success of the internal market and the assessment that it has been a driving force in promoting economic cohesion and the progressive elimination of regional disparities. i fully agree with this assessment if and as long as the reference to economic success is to enterprises. no doubt for them it was indeed a great success. however, we had the impression that the internal market was part of the european union's effort to eliminate regional disparities and to offer a better quality of life for all european citizens. in this context, the internal market has failed, as has the lisbon policy, as will all policies based on the philosophy of neoliberalism. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. what we need today is real convergence in the quality of life of all citizens of the union, not convergence of local economies in numerical terms, which contributes to the prosperity and proper functioning of the free market system but not to the prosperity of europeans.
mr president, religious freedom is one of europe’s important fundamental values. two days ago, christians attending mass in the turkish city of bergamos, in the presence of the orthodox ecumenical patriarch bartholomew, came under attack from a large mob of turkish nationalists known as ‘grey wolves’, who tried to disrupt the mass by shouting obscenities, abuse and death threats at the attending worshippers. the turkish police made no attempt to stop them and nobody was arrested or prosecuted. this is one of many episodes of state-tolerated and, on many occasions, state-sponsored persecution of christians in turkey. mr president, could you please send a letter of strong protest to the turkish prime minister, telling him in no uncertain terms that, if he is to have us believe that turkey seriously has european aspirations, then he must, amongst other things, make sure that the rights of religious minorities and, in particular, of christians in turkey, are properly protected and respected?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, as you can imagine, as a cypriot, i have a particular sensitivity to the protection of bathing waters, as i come from an island. the income of my country with its excellent beaches depends to a large extent on tourism, and in particular on european tourism, which is demanding in terms of the purity of the waters. so are the cypriots. a polluted beach in cyprus is a major topic of discussion and concern, with citizens demanding their government maintain and improve the state of the seas to the highest standards. the reason why i say that the new directive must be both strict and feasible is not just to ensure tourism in cyprus. all european citizens have the right to enjoy europe's waters, whether coastal or inland. to be able to carry out various activities without risk of microbiological contamination and, most importantly, to have the right to be informed as soon as possible about the state of the waters in which they and their children will be swimming. i do not see why the directive should be delayed. i believe that the 2011 deadline is more than enough time for local authorities to be in tune with the kind of tests they need to do and to develop the appropriate infrastructure. i fully agree with the rapporteur that public information is one of the most important elements of the directive. if the aim is to improve and maintain the quality of european bathing waters and to protect the citizen, i find it difficult to understand why the council does not want to develop a common information system for the public. i therefore ask you to support the amendments. the first time i saw the directive i wondered why the commission should be satisfied with good water quality only according to the parameters it sets. the council now wants to add a parameter, adequate quality. i think it is unacceptable that we should end up with microbiological standards even lower than those set by the commission. i therefore call on you to vote for the amendments deleting the new parameter and for those which do not separate inland and coastal waters. since no scientific study has been presented to the european parliament to support this view, and until substantiated evidence is presented, i propose that the vote on the separation be taken. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that parliament must stick to its views, especially after the vote in the committee on the environment, and i ask you to show by your vote that european citizens deserve the best possible quality of bathing water.
president of the council. i really think that the commission and the council are following very closely the developments on this crucial and important issue. i have no reason at this stage to doubt the firm intention of the turkish authorities to adopt and implement a revised penal code, which is justified for the reasons i have indicated. i therefore believe that there is no reason to doubt the decisions taken by the european council.
president of the council. the position of the european union in favour of the abolition of the death penalty is well known; is actively promoted by the european union in its relations with third countries as well as at the multilateral level, in line with the european union guidelines on the death penalty. the council responded in july 2004 to the reintroduction of the death penalty in iraq by raising the issue with the iraqi authorities on several occasions and will continue to do so in the future.
i'm the deputy editor. i am very grateful to you, mr minister, for your answer to mr papademos. i have no comment.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the presidential elections held on 24 april in togo were subject to serious irregularities, as a consequence of which there was an outbreak of violence resulting in many deaths and injuries. in addition, thousands of people fearing for their lives fled togo for neighbouring benin and ghana. togo has suffered election violence on several occasions in the past because the previous dictator-president, father of the current president, repeatedly rigged the polls in his own favour. according to amnesty international, several hundred opposition supporters were massacred by state security forces during the 1998 election. opposition supporters claim that similar attacks by the security forces are taking place today. in order to stop the present escalation of violence in the country and prevent similar shameful events from taking place in the future, we join our voice with those calling for, amongst other things, the establishment of a national unity government in togo and the speedy implementation of constitutional and electoral reforms.
author.– mr president, the burmese people continue to suffer extensively under inhuman repression practised by a long-lasting authoritarian military government. thousands of political prisoners are subjected to mistreatment and torture and denied access to a lawyer or a fair trial. burma holds the disgraceful record of having more child soldiers than any other country in the world. it also holds the shameful record of having the world's only imprisoned 60-year-old nobel peace prize recipient, mrs aung san suu kyi. on 19 june 2005, her 60th birthday, this remarkable lady will have spent a total of 2 523 days in detention. gross violations have been committed by the burmese army against ethnic minorities, including summary executions, torture and rape. an estimated one million people have been internally displaced and several hundreds of thousands have fled to neighbouring countries. the organised violence exercised by soldiers against women, including young girls, in areas of internal conflict, is a well-known atrocity in burma. hundreds of cases have been documented, with a high percentage of these cases involving gang rape and, in many cases, resulting in the killing of the victim. the alde group has long supported mrs suu kyi's efforts to bring democracy to her country, and we call for her immediate release from detention. in addition, my group wishes to see an increased role for the un high commissioner for refugees in the refugee camps along the thai-burmese border and a permanent un human rights monitor in eastern burma to investigate thoroughly human rights violations. furthermore, the alde group will continue to urge the european union to take every opportunity to put pressure on the burmese junta to restore democracy in the country. we also support the tourist boycott of burma and are in favour of the targeted imposition of economic sanctions on burma in order to encourage a speedy democratic reform.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank mrs gál for her report and to say that it is very positive to see that the question of the promotion and protection of human rights is increasingly being discussed in the union's institutions. the establishment of the fundamental rights office could certainly be viewed positively and without much concern if it were considered to be of real value in serving the purposes for which it was set up. however, we believe that there is always a risk that the office, because of the sheer volume of its work, will become dysfunctional and inefficient. the proposal to convert the centre for combating racism and xenophobia into this office is likely to weaken its present work. the independence of the office is not easy to achieve and it should always be able to strike a balance between security and human rights. the protection of human rights cannot be achieved solely by the creation of competent bodies, but above all by the practical change of policies, so that racism against foreigners is not fostered, that the strengthening of a police regime is not maintained and, in general, that the rights of its citizens and of all people are not undermined in the name of security. in the hope that these will be safeguarded, we shall vote in favour of the proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their reports, but when we talk about terrorism we must be very careful to present a clear position on the content of the term. the danger of giving risky definitions is illustrated by the difficulty of the international community itself and the united nations in achieving an objective interpretation of terrorism. terrorism is a crime which we condemn unreservedly, as long as the term is not misused to persecute liberation movements and radicalism. unfortunately, the excesses in the measures adopted through the action plan allow the conservative forces to justify measures that are anything but protective of a safe environment. at the same time we must be very careful about the legislative framework in which we try to integrate terrorism, so as to ensure that it does not become the basis for military interventions, which would be contrary to the principles of international law and the united nations charter. the majority of the measures taken by the european union in the fight against terrorism are based primarily on the need to create a climate of security. that is essentially the priority that has been set. the adoption of measures to ensure peaceful coexistence and a sense of security for the citizens of the european union is not of secondary importance. but in no case can they be guaranteed on the basis of the interests of capital, the control of the conscience of the citizens and the strengthening of the climate of fear and insecurity which is the result of excessive controls and the lowering of the bar in the field of human rights. the action plan is mainly a response to a given interpretation of terrorism and does not aim at addressing its root causes. it is primarily a response to the existing hegemonic tendencies and does not deal, as we believe it should, with the root causes of hunger, misery, social injustice, disrespect for political and national dignity, discrimination, racism, violations of human rights in general and state terrorism. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr president, we have heard very useful views and suggestions from the rapporteurs today and i congratulate them and also vice-president frattini on his policy positions on the fight against terrorism. mr president, terrorism is an abstract concept with a specific political background. terrorists are real, specific faces, but they are also invisible and invisible. the global campaign against terrorism will therefore only succeed if we either eliminate all terrorists or if we eliminate the political foundation on which terrorism rests. the first is impossible to do. the second is achievable. as a military or political tactic, terrorism is a despicable phenomenon. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, including the creation of a european police force. however, those who engage in barbaric terrorist methods invoke some specific religious or sometimes social cause. and they have the moral and political support of some societies. these are the societies we must turn to. the european union is able to penetrate these societies and act as a catalyst. in the case of the arabs, as in other cases, europe is not seen as the great devil or the enemy of the peoples. it is precisely here that the division of roles between the european union, the united states, russia and the other countries involved must be made. the european union's condemnation of terrorism and the escalation of legislative and other measures against terrorism must be accompanied by our own campaign of communication with the moderate elements of these societies. i am sure that with this campaign the european union will be able to pull the rug from under the feet of the terrorists. it is the only way to eliminate, not reduce, terrorism and this is the direction the european union, the council, the european parliament and the european commission must take together.
member of the commission. the european union does not have competence in the matter referred to in question 32, because it is a purely or strictly bilateral matter involving a member state and a third party, which is an organisation, in this case the north atlantic treaty organisation. it is not for the commission to comment on this matter as it is outside its competence. the commission therefore also wishes both sides to reach a suitable solution as soon as possible, as this would certainly contribute to further strengthening cooperation and relations between the european union and the north atlantic alliance.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his clear answer, but my question was aimed at ensuring that europe's common foreign and defence policy is as secure as possible in the vital biostrategic area of cyprus, and the answer was very clear.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, it would be a mistake not to congratulate mr bowis, who has expressed his knowledge and experience in these matters in his report. the european parliament's view on the serious issue of patient mobility is important as a lever to pressure the european commission to take clearer action on the issue. the european patients have rights which must be legally protected in order to be able to enjoy the same social protection wherever they are in the europe of free movement. i believe it is important to promote the daily and simple information of patients on their rights, and to recognise the particularities of groups of patients such as the elderly, the illiterate and the retired, as amendment no 37 also stresses. in addition, the protection of patients' personal data is important. the creation of a database of medical information on patients is envisaged, but, as provided for in amendments nos 48, 49, 50, 67, 68, certain safeguards must be taken to prevent abuse. i also think it is necessary to clarify the situation in the border areas. patients should therefore be treated in institutions as close as possible to their place of residence. many european countries bordering each other, such as france, belgium, luxembourg and germany, have developed close cooperation mechanisms. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of road safety experts. it is natural that some citizens living in cross-border areas should have to go to hospitals in neighbouring countries for their healthcare, as these are closer to their homes than the healthcare centres in their own country. i therefore ask you to vote for amendment no 41, paragraph 8. finally, i would like to stress that health services cannot be compared to goods offered for sale. i therefore believe that the issue of patient mobility and services in general should not be included in a general directive on services. however, a proposal for action on mobility is needed, with a specific timetable, taking into account the conclusions of the high level group on health services and medical care.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for this very interesting debate. it was also very useful for me to see how we can take this work further. let me begin by reassuring mrs doyle that i share her concern about the urgency of this whole issue. i am really concerned about every single aspect of this complex issue which we call patient mobility, because it is not just about moving patients from one country to another. members have mentioned the problems with professional mobility and the burden on healthcare systems. but we cannot do everything at once. one complication is that most of this lies within the competence of the member states. the processes in the union are rather slower than in the member states, but when it comes to coordination or whatever method we choose, it takes even longer. nevertheless, i shall tell you what i plan to do in the near future. everything has to be done, but it is a matter of choosing priorities. some things are easier or more urgent. the first one you have all mentioned: legal certainty. this has to be dealt with. i will not take a position on the services directive. i am waiting for the conclusion of the discussions. i can assure you that if eventually it is decided not to include health in the services directive - i am speaking hypothetically here - we will bring forward a different proposal. (interjection from mrs doyle: ‘when?’) as soon as you decide what to do with the services directive! (interjection from mrs doyle: ‘commissioner mccreevy has told us health will not be in it ...’ (rest inaudible)) it is not final yet, but let me put it like this: no time will be wasted. that is the first priority. we will have our health portal by the end of the year. this is moving forward, as you know, the provision of information about access to healthcare is more an issue for the member states, but we shall, nevertheless, include it in our health portal. i will speed up the progress of the high level group, so that they can deal with the various issues they are working on. i shall give priority to a health programme for the gathering of data information, because it seems that this might not be progressing as well as we think, but because of faults in the system we are not receiving the right information. so it might be progressing better than we think. so i shall give priority to gathering data information. centres of reference are very important and are included in the report. in 2006 there will be at least a pilot project. however, we also encourage them within member states, because they is needed there as well. patient safety is important. the luxembourg presidency and the uk presidency are giving it priority. i hope that by the end of the uk presidency we will have some more concrete conclusions on that. the use of information technology for facilitating payments, records and so on and the use of e-health information technology have been mentioned. patients’ rights are important. i am proud to say that the country i know best has already adopted legislation in this respect. it is a question of subsidiarity, but we will encourage the member states to adopt some kind of charter of patients’ rights, which may or may not be binding depending on the legal system of each member state. finally, another project which is important and which we will finance through the new health programme – provided it survives the financial perspectives debate – will be the financing of a new strand in health cooperation between member states. this will provide vital resources at european level to turn the discussions on cooperation into practical reality, including the other information and the centres of reference mentioned earlier. in conclusion, i apologise again for taking so much time, but i wish to thank everybody for this debate. i will keep parliament informed on the progress of the high level group.
mr president, yesterday you wondered why there were not enough people in the chamber at the time of the debate. this morning we had the same problem and you had to wait until people came. it is no wonder there is not good attendance; it is because no debate is taking place. all we do in this chamber is hear predetermined, prepared, one or two minute speeches without actual dialogue; they are just monologues. i think the procedure has to change if we are to have dialogue, proper debates and proper attendance.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i thank the members of the european parliament for dealing with this important but also very technical issue and for proposing constructive amendments. in fact, we must make every reasonable effort to reduce emissions of so-called polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in order to protect health and the environment. these polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic and reproductive toxic. they are also considered as persistent organic pollutants under the unece protocol. however, these particular hydrocarbons are part of the supplementary oils used in the production of tyres and thus cause health and environmental problems. this is why the commission has proposed to introduce harmonised restrictions on the marketing and use of oils containing these pahs and tyres containing these oils. the commission proposal will ensure that the internal market for tyres is preserved and that national measures which create a barrier to trade in goods are avoided. alternatives to the substances to be restricted are being developed by industry. in order to give industry the necessary time to adapt to the new standards laid down by this directive, the commission has proposed a reasonable transitional period for the implementation of the directive. the parliament and the council have put forward a viable compromise package with amendments concerning the later introduction of the measures, the testing requirements and the removal of unnecessary exemptions for certain sectors. the commission supports these amendments. i would encourage parliament to adopt the proposal at first reading, together with the amendments which are part of this compromise package. this will demonstrate the willingness and ability of the european institutions to deal with such problems without delay.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam vice-president, we are discussing today the 27th amendment to directive 76/769 on the restriction of the marketing and use of certain polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in dilution oils and coating tyres. this is a significant development when one considers that the european tyre industry produces some 300 million tyres a year and uses 250,000 tonnes of dilution oils, which are incorporated into the rubber matrix and remain in the rubber of the final tyre. these oils contain some quantities of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons which have been classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic, toxic for reproduction, and are also considered as persistent organic pollutants. i should like to begin by congratulating the commission on its initiative to extend annex 1 to directive 76/769 to include polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in car tyres. i think her proposal is very good. in the light of the protection of public health and the environment, but also of public safety and the proper functioning of the internal market, and after consulting both the commission and the council, the tyre and oil industry and non-governmental organisations, i have tried to draw up a balanced report, which has been amended accordingly by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the main issues that concerned us were the duration of the transitional period for the implementation of the directive, the method of detecting toxic substances that would be used, and the issue of exceptions to the directive. after consulting the council and in cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, a package of amendments is proposed which has been signed by most political groups. i would like to point out, as you see it, that the amendments tabled are very positive, so that we can conclude this matter smoothly at first reading. more specifically, as regards the transitional period considered necessary for the development of new types of tyres with dilution oils containing the minimum amount of the substances of concern, it is proposed to extend it until 1 january 2010. here, it should be noted that for environmental reasons we decided to take into account the date of manufacture of the tyre, which is engraved on the tyre itself. that is because destroying the tyres that will remain in stock is also harmful, and perhaps even more harmful to the environment, while of course we are helping the industry to dispose of this stock. the european federation of tire manufacturers has assured us in writing that it can apply the criteria of the directive to all types of tyres, including tyres for racing cars, these aircraft and special vehicles, as well as 'antique' cars, without any risk to the safety of drivers. we therefore propose that there should be no exception to the application of the directive. today i received three faxes protesting the fact that we had to give extension dates. i've spoken to all three senders and when i explained the compromise proposal to them, they seemed to agree with it. one of them even apologized to me for his ignorance. as regards the methods for detecting and characterizing polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, the commission proposes that the quantity of benzo (a) pyrene, a substance which will be an indicator for the whole group, be limited to 1 mg/kg or, if we take the sum of all pahs recorded, not to exceed 10 mg/kg. the industry, so far, uses the ip 346 method of the petroleum institute, which deals with the pac- extract of dimethyl sulphide which should not be more than 3%. it is proposed to include it, since it is the classical method followed. so much for the dilution oils. as regards the content of these oils in car tyres, since the iso 21461 method for determining the type of oils in tyres has been developed, it is proposed that this be specified in the directive to supplement the commission proposal. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including the one on the use of the 'retreading' system. no tyre retreading material shall be placed on the market with a dilution oil content above the specified limits. in conclusion, i would like to thank both the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation, the staff secretary of the committee on the environment and the council for its constructive proposals and cooperation so that we can deal with this matter at first reading.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i also wish to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. he has consulted painstakingly and taken due note of the views expressed by all the main players. in addition, i commend the productive efforts and efficient methodology employed in bringing about full and genuine cooperation between the shadow rapporteurs for all the main political groups. this has led to the achievement of a compromise package of amendments, which appears to have been widely accepted by most parliamentary groups, the council and the commission. concerning the substance of the directive, with the compromise amendments, this will to a very large degree achieve the intended aims, i.e., to effect, as soon as practicably possible, a reduction in the emission of carcinogenic tyre debris into the environment to an acceptable level, by restricting the marketing and use of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-rich extender oils and tyres. that would be done by harmonising the rules on the marketing and use of extender oils and tyres containing these toxic substances, thus preserving and improving the conditions and functioning of the internal market, while making sure that a high degree of health and environmental protection is achieved. lastly, it should be mentioned that there have, sadly, been a few direct and indirect attempts by some transatlantic tyre manufacturers to manipulate the derailing of the effectiveness clause of this directive. it is to the credit of the rapporteur and the shadows that fortunately logic and a sense of preservation of the eu’s high standards of safety and efficiency prevailed and such attempts fortunately failed. that is a good example, demonstrating clearly that unity and common sense will always protect us against the ‘big brother’ approach sometimes propagated by a small number of us industrialists and politicians. in conclusion, i strongly urge you to vote in favour of the compromise amendment package presented to you in connection with mr adamou’s report.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs fraga estévez, on her hard work on this legislation. i wish to make some general comments. fish, as everybody knows, is an important source of healthy human nutrition and is, quite rightly, much sought after by the consumer. it is also a major source of income for thousands of fishermen and other people involved in the fishing trade, including many small, medium and large businesses. the seas provide this fish, but uncontrolled fishing practices will eventually diminish supply and kill off the fishing industry. it is thus imperative that measures to manage the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources are legislated for and implemented as soon as possible. this is especially so with respect to the mediterranean sea, where stocks of many fish species appear in many instances to be at threshold levels. that is why this legislation is so urgently needed. however, legislation becomes significant not when it is approved on paper, but when it is implemented in practice. this is a major weakness, especially with respect to fishing. observation, surveillance and action to ensure application of the rules is unfortunately inadequate in many, if not in most, cases. out there on the high seas, things are not as they should be. gross violations are committed daily by those who bend the rules or just disregard them altogether. so the first point to be made is that much needs to be done to verify implementation of the legislation. the second point concerns the scientific data available to us. this information is essential if we are to understand and properly assess, for example, fishing stocks, breeding grounds, migration patterns and catchment methods. are our present scientific data reliable? unfortunately, it would appear not. it is thus of the utmost importance to direct efforts at getting accurate fishing data, free not only from scientific error but also from external manipulation aimed at booosting personal profits rather than fish conservation. last but not least, i refer to the diminishing species of the small- and medium-sized fishing enterprises of the smaller mediterranean member states like my country, cyprus. already disadvantaged by being a small island at the periphery of the eu, half occupied by turkish and british troops, cyprus is now facing the very real threat of having its fishing industry completely destroyed. a few hundred fishermen who have been carrying on the centuries-old family tradition of fishing around their island are now facing annihilation by the bureaucratic and, it seems, heartless dragon of brussels, acting in conjunction with faceless international commissions whose main concern is to satisfy the interests of the big multinational companies and powerful governments. so vessels from all over the world fish freely around cyprus, but the cypriot fishermen cannot do so because they are being strangulated by ridiculously low quotas. take tuna, for example. the eu has a quota allocation of about 18 000 tonnes per year and the commission in its wisdom has, for some years, considered giving cyprus a quota of just 5 to 10 tonnes, instead of the 500 to 1 000 tonnes needed. the commission blames many factors, such as previous years undeclared or erroneous catchment statistics by the cyprus authorities, but these are just excuses. the fishermen of cyprus … (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to underscore once again my satisfaction at the manner in which parliament has cooperated on this important dossier. our shared objective is to achieve sustainability of fisheries in the mediterranean. we owe this to our fishermen and also to the maintenance of a sustainable marine ecosystem to be able to support this activity. through a constructive dialogue, we have explored the avenues to finding some technical solutions to what before seemed to be intractable difficulties. i would like to underline that the aim of the proposal is to create a conservation plan for the mediterranean. we achieved this through finding a balance and we have instituted measures to protect small-scale fisheries in particular. for example, fishing for bianchetto continues to be allowed in our proposal, but with selective gear, not with trawls. with the advent of the new parliament and when i took office, i had to decide what to do regarding the mediterranean proposal. it was decided at that time that rather than withdrawing the original proposal, we would leave it on the table, but adopt a flexible approach. that is exactly what we did and, to this effect, we have worked very closely with the fisheries committee. we have taken on board the amendments proposed by the fisheries committee as a package. we have also taken on board a number of other amendments from individual meps. consultations have been carried out in an extensive manner with representatives of the sector for the mediterranean, both by the fisheries committee and by the commission. we are discussing with the member states with a view to having the proposal adopted as early as the june council. we are making significant progress and we can accept certain other amendments to sensitise the regulation even further to the specificities of mediterranean fisheries, but without forgoing the fundamental principle of sustainability. we, the community, have a responsibility to set a credible and strong example. we will continue to work with our partners in the mediterranean sea to convince them of the need to adopt measures along the same lines as ours. we have set up the medisamac as a forum, bringing together most mediterranean littoral states. we have strengthened the gfcm to be able to use it as a tool to achieve common standards, and we are working to establish a regional advisory council for the mediterranean, which will work further in this direction. the community has to set an example. it has to take the lead in the mediterranean. once the regulation is adopted, we will work within the gfcm and with individual third countries through our very good relations with them on all fronts, based now on partnership and neighbourhood, to adopt measures on the same lines as these and to have a level playing field for the mediterranean. in conclusion, my appreciation goes to all of you, and in particular the rapporteur, for her tireless work. you have come up with a proposal that i will clearly defend in the forthcoming discussions in the council. (applause)
mr president, i feel you have been unduly strict with us today. i know this is thursday but, as the secretariat will confirm, there is plenty of time left over from our groups' speaking time. my group had nine minutes and i used only four. your comment that people have planes to catch is not applicable, because we have to be here until this afternoon. there is voting at 5.30 p.m. and if some meps want to go home early ... (the president cut off the speaker)
author.– mr president, bolivia is regularly troubled by civil unrest and is currently ‘on the brink of civil war’, in the words of its president, mr carlos mesa. violent clashes between security forces and protestors, calling for economic reform and more rights for indigenous people, have been taking place in the streets of la paz. the fear of escalating violence is growing by the day. such clashes should come as no surprise to anybody, since the causal factors have been in place for a long time. first, there exists a huge and unjust discrepancy in wealth distribution. secondly, the indigenous population, peasants, and the long queues of the unemployed are largely excluded from economic and political life. thirdly, about 85% of farmland is owned by only 15% of the population, and fourthly, although bolivia is thought to have the second largest gas reserves in south america, this natural resource is not sufficiently used for the benefit of the people of bolivia and is to a large extent taken advantage of by foreign multinationals and a small group of elite beneficiaries. all the above, and much more, has led to the potentially explosive situation that we see today. the resolution before you mainly calls for continued efforts to deepen and broaden democracy in bolivia and urges the eu and its member states adequately to support the government to bring about a peaceful and just solution and avert a catastrophe of looming civil war.
draftsman.– mr president, i would like to congratulate the secretariat of the alde group, to which i belong, for submitting the application so quickly and thus giving me the privilege of being the first to speak in this debate. in algeria, president bouteflika’s government continues, through judicial procedures lacking in any credibility, independence or justification, in its attempt to silence journalists who are considered by the governing regime to offend or attack the president or the government. in fact, these so-called attacks are no more than the ordinary independent criticisms by political journalists we see on a daily basis in all free democratic countries. as a result of this war on the free press, numerous journalists are being dragged before the courts and many have been imprisoned or savagely fined. the list is long and the cases of the editor of the daily newspaper le soir d’algérie, mr fouad boughanem, and the cartoonist, mr hakim laâlam, who were sentenced by a court in algiers to two months in prison and fined 250 000 dinars for defamation, are recent examples. as indeed is the case of publisher mohammed benchicou, already in prison for libel offences, whose transfer to hospital for much needed treatment – requested by the prison doctor – the courts have refused to approve, even on humanitarian grounds. we call upon the algerian government to respect the principle of freedom of speech and to stop harassing journalists in an attempt to silence the voices of the democratisation process and the opposition press.
author.– mr president, the government of azerbaijan is continuing its crackdown on opposition political groups. on 21 may, the police and paramilitary forces beat up and arrested participants in a peaceful opposition rally in baku. the official excuse was that permission to hold the rally was denied and this despite an apparent order of 12 may from president aliyev, instructing government authorities to respect freedom of assembly. dozens of civilians were arrested in that incident and many journalists were beaten up by the police. it is worth noting that the purpose of the rally was to voice the need for amendments to azerbaijan’s election laws, in order to prevent the authorities from falsifying election results, to ask for the creation of an independent public broadcasting authority, and to demand the prosecution of the murderer of the independent journalist elmar huseynov, who was shot dead outside his apartment last month. in other police operations, scores of known opposition activists, including the heads of youth organisations, were rounded up and mistreated. parliamentary elections are due in november and it seems that a repeat pattern of violence instigated and carried out by the state is starting again, as it did before the 2003 elections. we call on the government of azerbaijan, and in particular president aliyev, to proceed quickly with the necessary electoral reforms and to show the necessary respect for its citizens’ right to free, fair and democratic elections.
mr president, a number of my colleagues have successively congratulated the luxembourg presidency. i am doubly proud today because a country the size of the country i represent has produced leaders who have proven that they can speak without chewing their words and who can stand as leaders beyond the borders of their own country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the criteria for determining the contribution of agriculture to the gross national product must not be the social balance between the urban and rural areas, the fight against police brutality and the protection of the environment. you have promoted the lisbon process, whose failure has been the fault of the member states. you have achieved the stability pact, which the governments of the member states were then able to compromise on, since it was a particularly pressing issue. i would also like to congratulate you on your contribution to the finding of a common position in the turkey-european union association council, which should be considered an achievement of yours, and to congratulate you personally, mr schmit, on your contribution to the efforts to find a package of proposals for cyprus which would form the basis on which to conduct, in a good climate, a dialogue between the two communities to solve our problem.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i am in favour of transparency in the matter of members' salaries and allowances. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this case, there was no adequate dialogue. all objective data were not taken into account. for example, the proposed compensation for travel does not take into account travel time. nor the suffering. the salary ratio of members of parliament to judges does not take into account the income of members who are absent.
mr president, let me begin by thanking all five rapporteurs, and in particular mr hadjidakis, for the effort he has put into this report. however, we must not forget that when we speak of a european regional policy, we are talking about the development of a programme to promote social and economic cohesion which enables the union to take action to reduce regional disparities, promote genuine convergence, stimulate employment, and also serve to redistribute and offset the costs of the internal market in the less developed regions. the report, which covered most aspects of the union's regional policy, does not, in my view, give sufficient weight to the less developed regions. we must also not forget that the new member states suffering from serious geographical disparities, such as cyprus and malta, need further assistance in the context of european regional policy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction.
author.– mr president, some may wonder how, on a day when the plague of terrorism has again hit innocent civilians in a european capital, we can continue to debate the matters on our parliamentary agenda as planned. the answer is of course that, while our hearts go out to the victims and their families, we must never allow cowardly acts of terror to disrupt our democratic institutions and processes. to do otherwise would in fact give the cowardly terrorists the sick satisfaction and perverse pleasure they seek to achieve by perpetrating such monstrous crimes against humanity. ethiopia is, unfortunately, a country with a long history of poverty and famine. it is also a country with a long history of autocracy and state terror. during their fourteen years in power, the governments led by prime minister meles zenawi have continued to amass a shameful human rights record. many critics of his government have been routinely subjected to harassment, imprisonment and torture. last month, after the recent parliamentary elections in the country, opposition demonstrations in the capital addis ababa were met with brutal attacks by the ethiopian police. the demonstrators, mainly university students, claimed, with good reason, that there had been widespread electoral fraud. the security forces fired indiscriminately on the unarmed demonstrators, killing at least 36 and injuring over 100. an estimated 5 000 people were arrested and thrown into military detention centres. following international reaction, many have now been released, but a large number are still in detention. over the last few years, ethiopia has received – and continues to receive – a considerable amount of development aid from the west, much of which is from the eu. many argue – quite rightly – that we ought to reconsider how this aid to african countries is given, because it would appear that in some cases at least – and ethiopia is an example – the granting of financial help may bring about the collateral danger of helping to establish a non-democratic regime the policies of which further lead to national poverty. i ask you to support this motion for a resolution.
mr president, the plane crash on 14 august involving a low-cost cypriot airline claimed the lives of 121 people. in a small country like cyprus, the human loss has been devastating and i would like to thank you, mr president, and all my colleagues for the condolences offered to the families of the victims. while an investigation into the exact cause of the crash is under way, it would appear from leaked official reports that long-standing organisational errors and administrative shortcomings may have rendered the cyprus civil aviation department incapable of fulfilling adequately its role as an aviation safety service. although the government of cyprus has committed itself to corrective measures immediately, it is now clear that the commission has been aware of this situation for some time and has kept largely quiet and chosen to follow a slow and rather ineffective course of remedial action. civil aviation authorities in other member states may have similar safety-related problems, and corrective measures may be needed urgently. i hope that when the commission makes a statement in this house later on tonight, it will be persuasively clear of its intention to tighten up urgently its watchdog role over the civil aviation authorities and to make sure that transparency is strictly applied.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: what a tragic irony, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that we are discussing air safety today when just yesterday there was another tragic accident in indonesia that claimed the lives of at least 140 people. in view of this incident and the fatal accident in greece on 14 august in which 121 of our colleagues were killed prematurely by a private airliner, i would like to reflect today on the image of the aviation industry in recent times. since the beginning of 2005, there have been six international accidents that have claimed the lives of some 625 people. in the last month alone, 500 people have lost their lives in four accidents. however, a few years ago the former transport commissioner argued that the aviation industry needed to be stabilised and suggested that the number of national airlines in the union should be reduced. that is the biggest problem in the industry. the european commission's continuing drive to liberalise the sector has led to deregulation and unlimited competition, all at the expense of citizens' safety. this new environment created by the uncontrolled entry of private capital into the market and by the rapid decline in the level of services provided has led to a decline in the degree of security since it is at the expense of companies. so what we have to do, and what we have the power to do, is to amend the aviation directive and the regulations in such a way that safety is not sacrificed to the profit of the companies.
madam president, i rise as a member of the european parliament representing cyprus, which was hit by the last air disaster. the public in cyprus is shocked and troubled by the fact that 121 lives were lost, including many children, and entire families were wiped out. the demand of public opinion in cyprus, and i believe throughout europe, is that investigations into the causes of accidents should not be restricted. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection board and the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i urge the european commission, commissioner, not to hesitate to point out shortcomings, deficiencies, criminal negligence and not to hesitate to give the necessary instructions to correct all the bad texts. i welcome your presence here today, which shows your sensitivity, and i welcome the measures you have announced. in the european union we can move towards higher standards, increased control and prevention roles, while at the same time we, without being against the liberalisation of airspace, believe that because of this liberalisation, additional control by the national civil aviation authorities and also additional control by your own commission over the national civil aviation authorities of the member states is necessary.
mr president, we agree with mrs jensen's report and i congratulate her because we believe that ensuring high levels of social protection and participation for workers in an age of market and profit rules is our imperative duty. we believe that all workers have the right to work and live in an environment of equality and social cohesion, and we stress, among other things, that immigrants are not workers or second-class citizens. the enjoyment of equal rights and equal opportunities, their social protection and integration are non-negotiable. the same applies to people with disabilities, who must also have access to work, and their social integration must be promoted and confirmed. the european parliament can and should play a key role in monitoring and implementing the progress programme. citizens of the union and every individual must have the right to participate and equal opportunities in the society in which they live, and this is only achieved when social policies are not undermined by profit-making policies. and we believe that progress, with the improvements that have been approved by the relevant committees including the increase in funding, can at least play a role towards ensuring some levels of social cohesion by employing the hitherto socially disadvantaged and, ultimately, by achieving social protection for all workers without discounts and without discrimination.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i should like to thank mrs grossetête for her work. it was necessary to specify more precisely the mission of the paediatric committee, to clarify the mechanism involved, to ensure the monitoring of paediatric research programmes while giving this committee the important task of identifying special needs in the field of paediatrics. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. it is important in my view - and i happen to be a doctor - to reduce the six-month extension granted to manufacturers of paediatric medicines whose products are already protected by pharmaceutical patents. such a reward is disproportionate, considering the huge profits that companies make from this monopoly since no one else can manufacture the drug. and most importantly, consumers, and therefore the government, are forced to pay for the brand until the drug is allowed to be sold by others. mrs behrendt said earlier whether we asked the patients, the babies, whether we asked the parents. i would like to ask mrs behrendt if she has asked any mother or father who has children and who does not have the money to buy the medicine. that is something we must take into account. we shall be supporting a reduction in time to three plus three months; i would also add that the new system of rewards should not be abused - and i agree with john bowis - by repeating previous rewards. legislation should clearly state that the new additional protection offsetting paediatric testing will not be granted again through any other forms of market protection from competition. amendment no 75 aims to clarify this and i urge you to vote for it. the european parliament's report must aim to establish a real dialogue between the parties concerned. in conclusion, i would like to protest against the timing of this very serious debate. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, it has been a shameful stigma on our 21st century civilisation that, to this day, many of the medicines we use to treat our children are untested for paediatric use and that a large number of medicines that could be of lifesaving benefit to children are not used because they never underwent paediatric testing. in a world in which it seems, perhaps, inevitable that economic profit is, to a great extent, the cornerstone of our existence, the commission has finally brought before us a remedial proposal based mainly on financial terms and mores. the pharmaceutical companies will now have to measure a child's ill-health on financial balance sheets and proceed with paediatric drug development only if it is profitable. i do not necessarily blame them: they produce medicines to make money and if they do not make money they will not be able to produce medicines. this is unfortunately the harsh reality and those of us with more romantic aspirational fantasies will just have to accept it. this piece of legislation, despite its ideological shortcomings, will help develop more and safer drugs for children. it is therefore an important step forward and deserves our full support, although its application will have to be monitored closely, especially with regard to the proper ethical scrutiny of paediatric clinical trials.
mr president, i have the impression that we did not vote for amendment 15.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we have all recently witnessed historic events in the middle east of particular political significance. the implementation of prime minister sharon's disengagement plan was a development which we can only welcome because it is undoubtedly a positive development and an important step towards a peaceful solution to the palestinian problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is no coincidence that, while the gaza strip has been turned into a free zone with the implementation of the plan, the number of settlers in the west bank has increased dramatically in recent times. after the private meeting we had during the official visit of president borrell to the french prime minister, ariel sharon, last june, it is clear that the disengagement plan is not part of a political process aimed at ending the occupation, returning the refugees and establishing an independent palestinian state, but, i am afraid, the deeds of the occupation continue to exist. israel continues to maintain control of the border with egypt in the gaza strip in terms of the movement of goods and continues to maintain the right of military intervention, while continuing to control the coast, airspace and borders of the gaza strip. we, as the european parliament and the european union at large, must continue to monitor developments in the region with particular attention, but at the same time we must press in all directions for substantive talks that will lead within 2005 to significant progress and very soon to a final solution to the problem. the solution must be the establishment of an independent palestinian state and, of course, the demolition of the wall and the end of the occupation so that the two peoples can build a peaceful future which will contribute to peace and progress throughout the middle east.
mr president, it is now becoming clear to both sides that the use of force will not achieve victory: the israelis cannot achieve their desired security, the palestinians cannot achieve their independent state. the only process ahead is the political process. political process and armed struggle cannot coexist: it is either one or the other. both sides are now arriving at this conclusion, as demonstrated from the palestinian side, with the democratic election of president abbas, the mandate that he has received to negotiate peace and the fact that even hamas is now slowly entering the democratic process; and from the israeli side, with the gaza disengagement, despite formidable opposition and the traumatic experience of the israelis. now is the time to consolidate these positive developments. the council and the commission – either through the quartet or on their own – must discourage, firstly, those palestinians who may consider that the gaza disengagement is a result of their intifada; secondly, those in israel who may consider that this licenses them to proceed with further settlements or the continuation of the wall and, finally, encourage both sides, so that they avoid actions that strengthen the hands of those on the other side who oppose the peace process. elections will be held in the months ahead in either palestine or israel, which is likely to create a sort of vacuum. good management of this vacuum is required so that the momentum for peace is kept alive.
author.– mr president, religious freedom is a fundamental human right and an important indicator of the level of civilisation of a society. nevertheless, it cannot be denied that religion has in some cases been exploited for political and economic gains. nor can it be denied that religious fanaticism has, in some cases, led to many extremist manifestations aimed at our democratic institutions. in essence, the balance between religious freedom and adequate protection of the citizen is a very fine one and requires extreme wisdom in framing legislation, coupled with an honest determination to apply it correctly. not unexpectedly, such will is lacking in totalitarian states, where religion is perceived merely as a possible threat to the political stability of the ruling regimes. this, it appears, is the case with china. recently, thanks to international pressure, the chinese government put into effect new regulations on religious affairs, but it is already abundantly evident that these changes do not go far enough and policies limiting religious freedom persist. numerous examples of persecution and harassment of religious groups and individuals in china are well documented and need not be mentioned here again. we call on the chinese government to put a real end to religious repression in the country and, furthermore, to immediately release from detention and stop the prosecution of all individuals persecuted by the state authorities as a consequence of their religious beliefs and practices. i urge you to support this joint motion for a resolution.
author.– mr president, this parliament has dealt with the issue of human rights violations by syria in the past, and there is no doubt that, following both european union and international pressure, some improvements in the field of respect for human rights have been accomplished over recent years. unfortunately, however, these improvements do not go far enough. the example of the continued imprisonment of two ill parliamentarians, riad seif and mamoun al-homsi, and the recent persecution of many civil activists, such as hasan zeino and yassin al-hamwi, are pertinent proof of that. as is, indeed, the syrian authorities' continued tactic of imposing obstacles on the registration and free operation of non-governmental human rights organisations in the country. as well, of course, as the tactic of intimidating and harassing numerous syrian human rights activists. the syrian government must realise that this situation is unacceptable to the eu, and its continuation will no doubt hinder the accomplishment of a future eu-syria association agreement. we call upon the syrian authorities, and especially the current president, mr bashar al-assad, who has given hopeful signs of wanting to open up the syrian political system, dominated for many years by the ba'ath party, to proceed in a speedy and determined fashion in the much needed process of democratisation and reform of his country. such changes will not only earn him and his government much respect abroad but, more importantly, they will greatly benefit the syrian people. colleagues, i urge you to support this joint motion for a resolution.
mr president, although i am a firm believer in the use of a common working language of communication, i accept and respect the right of every mep to listen and speak in his or her own national language. what i cannot accept, however, is the fact that more than a year after the accession of ten new member states, there is still at least one parliamentary committee in which no interpretation for certain new member state languages is provided, and that colleagues from these states are unable to take part in the deliberations of these committees using their official mother tongue. this obviously puts these colleagues at an unfair disadvantage. it is not an acceptable state of affairs and i call on you to reassure the house, on this day of linguistic freedom, that this regrettable situation will be remedied as soon as possible and that it will not arise again when the next two new member states join the eu in the near future.
i am glad, mr president, that we have the opportunity today to discuss and vote on two important reports on the union's regional policy. if i may, i would like to focus more on the report by mr guellec on the role of territorial cohesion in regional development. the report by my colleague has, in my view, a very important paragraph: the second paragraph of the resolution states that parliament calls for 'regional development to be based on programmes which ensure equal treatment between countries while preserving their diversity, which implies in particular appropriate access to services of general interest and services of general economic interest'. but what public services are we talking about today, ladies and gentlemen? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. how will these services remain of common interest and help territorial cohesion? and to give you a striking example, you are obviously aware that in greece, on the basis of community legislation, the national airline will soon be privatised. i wonder to what extent this will help territorial cohesion, knowing the specificity of the greek territory. how can a private individual replace the state as a provider of public services? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we are also talking about territorial cohesion here, when in brussels the governments of the member states cannot even agree on the budgetary perspective, and the member states are left with surprises. so let's not hide behind our thumb. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, i was thinking of starting this short speech of one and a half minutes, but i cannot help but comment on the statement made earlier by mrs bonino, who blames the greek cypriots for rejecting the annan plan. i think it is acceptable that decisions taken after a referendum by the people are respected, as stated in the resolution, regardless of whether it expresses regret. i would expect mrs bonino to explain why the greek cypriots rejected this plan and also to explain that 35% of turkish cypriots said 'no' and that settlers in the occupied territories in cyprus also had the right to vote, which under international law constitutes a war crime. that's like a little comment. turkey must fulfil its obligations under international law and the principles on which the european union is founded. it is also necessary to take account of the fact that the european union is made up of 25 member states, including the republic of cyprus, and that it would be a paradox if turkey wanted to join the european union and at the same time occupied the territory of a member state by means of an army and refused to recognise it. in this context, turkey must fully and indiscriminately implement the provisions of the protocol, including the transport chapter, and it is therefore self-evident that turkey must recognise the republic of cyprus. with cyprus, greece and turkey reunited as members of the european union, i believe that peace and security in the region will be consolidated.
mr president, i was one of those who, last december, did not oppose the opening of negotiations with turkey, in the hope that it would promote the issues of democratisation and human rights in that country and foster peace between turkey, greece, cyprus and armenia in the region. unfortunately, last year saw retrogression and no progress. one thing essential thing, apart from legislation on sex discrimination, was requested from turkey. that was that it extend implementation of the ankara protocol to include cyprus. however, only a week ago foreign minister gül said that ports and airports have nothing to do with the customs union. the council and the commission want to brush this under the carpet, just as they have brushed under the carpet the treatment of religious minorities, article 305 of the penal code, the question of the armenian genocide, the repression of demonstrations by women and so many other issues, including that of orhan pamuk and freedom of expression within turkey. turkey's treatment as a candidate country has to be fair, but strict. who among the previous ten candidate countries would have dared, when embarking on their negotiations, not to recognise a member state? and yet that is the case with cyprus. we may lament the result of the referendum in cyprus but must respect the outcome of that referendum, the referendum in france and the referendum in the netherlands. the complacency shown by the council and the commission weakens the message coming from those referenda. i am afraid that the problem here is not turkey. it is the council and the commission.
mr president, there is no turkish part of cyprus, just as there is no greek part of cyprus. there is only one cyprus: the republic of cyprus, which is internationally recognised. some of us consider that starting accession negotiations with a country that does not recognise one of our member states, continues to occupy part of eu territory and has an abysmal human rights record is totally nonsensical. equally, the idea that turkey must join the eu in order to be transformed is incomprehensible. by the same argument, we should get iraq, afghanistan, cambodia, nepal and many other not-so-democratic countries to join the eu. a woman does not get married to her rapist in order to reform him. she stays well away from him and hopes he is put in prison for a long time. let us stop behaving like a subordinate of the united states. if mr bush, in his plentiful wisdom, thinks that turkey is so great, let him have it join his own country! trying to get turkey to become an eu member is turning from a bad joke into a nightmare, and our citizens, who will pay dearly for our mistakes, realise this much better than we think they do. let us stop insulting their intelligence. turkey is an undemocratic, highly aggressive and super-problematic country and is light years away from european standards and values. let us not turn 3 october into a black monday for europe, and let us vote against accession. (applause)
author.– mr president, tunisia is a country that in recent years has made significant steps towards the advancement of respect for the human rights of its citizens. nevertheless there is still plenty of room for much-needed further progress. many disturbing reports still come from tunisia of arbitrary detentions, judicial harassment of human rights activists and their organisations, systemic repression of freedom of expression and association, as well as censorship and state-control of internet access and use. the team of eminent experts in the fields of new information technologies, the media and human rights that visited tunisia last january seems to have documented convincingly many instances where the tunisian authorities appear guilty of violation of international law and disregard for human rights. furthermore, the severe intimidation to which the state has subjected the tunisian league of human rights for the last 30 years is totally unacceptable. we condemn such practices and call upon the tunisian government to make sure, through prompt and decisive action, that they soon become a thing of the past. this will not only enhance the eu-tunisia relationship but will strengthen democracy and the rule of law and, consequently, will substantially improve the quality of life of the tunisian people. i am sure that this joint resolution, with its fair recommendations, will be taken very seriously into consideration by the tunisian government and i hope that it will not be seen as an act of aggressive interference in internal national matters, but rather as well-meant critical advice from an associate and friend.
mr president, avian flu is once again knocking on europe’s door. the cases of highly suspect mass poultry deaths reported in romania and turkey are very worrying. the fear of a global avian flu epidemic is real. extensive plans on how to cope with this threat are being drawn up by all responsible european governments and by the commission. unfortunately, the turkish government does not appear to be taking this problem seriously. this has been clearly demonstrated in two instances. firstly, eu officials reported that the results of important tests were delayed and are still awaited because turkey was late in sending samples to the appropriate laboratory. secondly, in a public statement yesterday, the turkish minister of agriculture declared that ‘there is no reason for concern’. mr president, could you convey to the turkish government our deep concern at the complacent and irresponsible way in which the authorities in that candidate member country seem to be dealing with this extremely serious matter? in addition, could you stress to the commission that we expect drastic action to be taken in order to prevent this disease spreading from turkey into other neighbouring countries?
mr president, the lisbon strategy states that the union must become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. in order to achieve this goal, a widespread educational transformation must be set in motion. in our increasingly materialistic and purely economy-based societies, it is not surprising that many policy makers have wrongly understood this transformation to mean mainly the mass production of first class economists, scientists and other professionals, and have accordingly given most weight to the achievement of this aim. i believe this to be profoundly wrong and i am particularly happy that mr bono also agrees with this in his excellent report. not every child in our schools will grow to become an einstein; neither would many of us like to live in a world full of einsteins. we undoubtedly need a few fast-track academic achievers and we must give them every possible opportunity to reach their highest potential. however, in a humanistic, caring society we also need the ‘not-so-brilliant’ as well as the poor achievers. we must also care for them with equal zeal. sadly, many of our much-discussed educational systems are still unable to cope with those children that need extra help. they are unable to deal with the special needs of the physically disabled or those with learning difficulties such as dyslexia, which accounts for approximately 10% of our student population. equally, they are unable to deal with the special needs of children from problematic socio-economic backgrounds and disturbed situations. it is not, therefore, surprising – but it is rather disturbing – that according to a unesco report in the mid-90s, more than 2 million britons, mr beazley, were completely illiterate. this comes from a country which is known to have an educational system of a high standard. i believe that the report by mr bono is excellent and we must support it. i am sorry i do not have enough time to conclude.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an own-initiative report today, but it would be useful if it were a legislative report: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. european cities remain the foremost creative spaces and centres of social and cultural development, as evidenced by their attraction to the population. on the other hand, they are the source of many and varied problems, such as environmental pollution, traffic congestion, housing problems, crime and drug addiction, as well as social exclusion, migration and poverty. i would therefore like to make five points which i consider important, referring to the report by mr beaupuy. as a member from a country which has just been enlarged, i can only applaud the efforts of the committee on regional development to deal with this matter. the first point i want to make is that there is a great gap in urban policy between the 25 member states, particularly with the enlargement of the union to 10 new member states, which often lack a clear and comprehensive urban policy to be pursued at national or regional level. while i agree with this proposal, we must not forget that the same evil is also happening in many of the older member states, where urban politics is a dying breed and urban centres are left at the mercy of some superior force. the european union's 25 member states must therefore work together to develop and tackle the problems of urban centres in a sustainable way. the second point i would like to make, and which is of major importance for member states with an agricultural economy, is that cities or regions are part of the regional territory, which requires sustainable urban development that must be carried out in harmony with the neighbouring rural areas. as you know, in many member states large rural areas are very often isolated by the desertification of neighbouring urban centres. we must therefore intensify our efforts to make smaller urban centres more attractive and thus avoid the desertification of, for example, the countryside to the benefit of the big cities, which may have a negative impact on the rural economy of some member states. the fact that over 80% of economic activity is carried out in cities makes local authorities the mainstay of regional development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions, and has recently launched a new programme for the protection of the environment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. the rapporteur also asks the conference of presidents of the european parliament to propose an amendment to annex vi to the european parliament's rules of procedure concerning the powers of the committee on regional development which would explicitly include the urban dimension, in addition to regional policy and cohesion policy, in its objectives and powers, taking into account the work of the other relevant committees on transport, environment, research, employment and social affairs, the internal market, culture, etc. in a horizontal perspective. this is particularly important not only because it will increase the powers of the committee but also because it will send a message to the citizen that we care, we listen, we listen to everyday problems and we try to find sustainable solutions. in conclusion, i would like to say that instead of admitting the inadequacy of sustainable policies, we are instead spreading the message that responsibility is due to a lack of support for an outdated practice, which is against the lisbon policy and not worth our efforts. we need to disconnect the one term from the other and work, i repeat, together to make the vision of sustainable urban development a reality.
mr president, last week formations of turkish fighter planes repeatedly and provocatively violated cypriot airspace. at the same time, the turkish army occupying northern cyprus has continued to strengthen its foothold on the island by increasing and enhancing its forces with more sophisticated american-made heavy weaponry. these grossly illegal actions are causing much concern to the civilian population, risk causing a dangerous confrontation with cyprus’ defences and are seriously undermining efforts to achieve long-lasting peace in the region. will the president of this parliament have the determination to send a strong message to the ankara government, telling it in no uncertain terms to stop violating the integrity of an eu member state and start making an effort to behave like a civilised nation at last? or, should we all just accept and resign ourselves to what many ordinary people in the street think, namely that the eu is just a big business, making more money for the big member states, and does not give tuppence about the safety and wellbeing of the smaller member states?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon strategy, as it was formulated after the spring council, subordinates education to the needs of the market and emphasizes lifelong learning and education only as a means of promoting low-wage, permanent jobs. there is a constant call for greater private investment in scientific research to meet the needs of capital. at the same time, innovation and modernisation are not geared to promoting technology and the quality of life. the lisbon strategy fails to take into account the growing need for public education spending and investment, for scholarships and for comprehensive lifelong learning programmes, which support non-formal education while being inaccessible to a large part of the population. the expansion of lifelong learning in partnership with the business sector is one of the main objectives of lisbon. with this programme, universities will open their doors to the specialization of the workforce in new professions, which will then be cheap labour for the entrepreneur who invests his money in the university. this creates a vicious circle for young people, who are fired and then, after being retrained, are hired as cheap labour in new occupations. it is clear that the commission's objective is not lifelong learning but lifelong exploitation. in conclusion, it is obvious that if these policies are implemented, we are essentially passing education to the will of the enterprises, which will be sacrificed on the altar of competitiveness and profits. it will mean subordinating research to the dictates and needs of business and reducing the state's contribution. we believe that the member states of the union can develop education and lifelong learning without it being characterized by speculation and a one-sided attachment to the so-called needs of the market and competitiveness. the european united left cannot therefore vote against the proposal for a lifelong learning programme.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i left cyprus at 7 a.m. and have spent most of the day in aeroplanes, buses and cars in order to be here this evening. that, i can assure you, is not very conducive to engaging in long debates, especially since the house – understandably so – is almost empty. i will therefore confine myself to making the following brief comments and i hope i will not be testing your patience too much. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on shipments of waste is a very important piece of legislation which is much needed and is, unfortunately, long overdue. the subject-matter is always controversial: it is very often in the public eye and is close to the heart of the ordinary citizen because it matters so much. consequently, it is the paramount responsibility of parliament, the council and the commission to get things right. it is noteworthy that the european parliament has put a lot of effort into working through and streamlining this regulation. this is evident from the fact that, at first reading, the european parliament adopted no less than 103 amendments, and, on this occasion, 90 amendments have been adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. in dealing with the council’s common position, the rapporteur of this recommendation for second reading, mr blokland, has shown much wisdom and determination, for which he is to be congratulated and supported. in my view, the most important item in the common position and recommendation for second reading is the choice of environment as the single legal base, thus highlighting that the main aim of the council is the environment, not – as some wanted and tried hard to achieve – the enhancement of trade in waste material. this is what i am hoping for, and i would like to add my voice to those who urged the commission not to challenge this in court. a point of difference with the council has been the total exclusion of animal by-products from the scope of the regulation. i feel this is unjustified. i agree with the rapporteur that animal by-product waste should be included in order to ensure that such waste is shipped in an environmentally and hygienically correct and responsible fashion. in conclusion, i, along with most members of the committee on the environment, i am sure, hope that the commission will facilitate this regulation by coming forward in due course with sensible and stringent proposals on the waste framework directive and with a strategy on waste prevention and recycling. i also hope, as the rapporteur just mentioned, that ways will be found to deal effectively with the ever-present problem of application and implementation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the population is protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted by the fact that the european union is not able to take action on the environment, and that the commission is not able to take action on the environment. another point which i also consider important is the proper information of the public and especially of poultry farmers and the avoidance of causing panic, which we have already caused, without any indication, commissioner, by continually telling people to be vaccinated with a vaccine which we know in advance has nothing to do with the new virus that will emerge. the only thing that we will achieve by vaccinating the general population, and not high-risk groups like poultry farmers, is to limit the rate of common influenza that occurs every year in europe. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new programme for the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, personally speaking, i believe that organised crime is the cancer of our society and, like cancer, it is very difficult to cure. mr newton dunn’s report is an excellent one, but is it enough? i would just mention two aspects that should, i feel, cause us to consider reviewing our strategy further. first, fighting organised crime using the classic police and judicial methods has proven largely futile. we need to look at new, fresh methods of dealing with it. for example, much organised crime is connected with drug trafficking. by adopting a more liberalised stance on drugs, we could help drug users deal with their sickness and at the same time eliminate drug traffickers. secondly, in some cases organised crime thrives because it has the backing and cooperation of corrupt politicians or corrupt policemen. do we have in place in all member states the necessary effective means to correct this situation, or do we just pretend that this corruption does not exist? unfortunately, this piece of legislation, although it contains many fine things, does little in respect of the two points i have just mentioned. that shows, in my view, that neither the commission nor parliament is yet ready or brave enough to cut deep and remove the cancer of organised crime from our society before it is too late.
mr president, organized crime is one of the greatest dangers facing mankind today. the opening up of frontiers and markets, better transport networks and progress in communications have unfortunately also become a channel for the establishment and organization of international criminal networks. the repression of the criminal activities involved is an imperative. but that does not mean that we should deal with the matter by imposing stricter measures that call into question the political and other freedoms of innocent citizens. in general, the present proposal makes the problem more rigorously, but not necessarily more effectively, tackled. the definition of organised crime is becoming broader, the criteria are becoming looser and the protection of individual rights of the innocent and the guilty is being jeopardised in the name of tackling it. in conclusion, the fight against organised crime is possible, but not on the basis of the recent models being promoted, such as the action plan against terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, although this is a very lonely debate, it is nevertheless a very important piece of legislation because it deals with what we knowingly – or in many cases, unknowingly – ingest. it is also a somewhat complicated and controversial piece of legislation in places, and therefore much credit should go to the rapporteur for achieving a valuably balanced report. i wish to pick up on a couple of aspects that i feel need to be noted further. first, it is right to ban jelly mini-cups with gel-forming food additives in order to prevent choking in children, but the banning of gel-forming food additives in general is unwise because these substances are only hazardous when used in jelly mini-cups. if used in other products, they are perfectly safe; so i fully support the principle that we should not place a blanket ban on all substances, and should only ban unsafe products. secondly, with regard to the newly authorised sweetener erythritol, i agree with the rapporteur that its laxative effect, even if at very low percentage levels, should be made known in the form of product labelling. as a matter of principle, i believe that it is an unquestionable right of the consumer to know exactly what he eats or drinks. that right surely supersedes any marketing tactics or side-effects. i thank the commissioner for staying so late with us. the use of antibiotics is very unwise in any foods because of the danger of microbial resistance and allergenic reactions.
president-in-office of the council. the simple answer is ‘yes’. it reflects our commitment, not just to the blighted continent of africa – perhaps the only continent in recent years to have moved backwards on many of the key indicators that were so graphically highlighted in our own prime minister’s commission for africa report – but also to supporting other countries as they seek to meet the millennium development goals, which were reiterated in september at the millennium review summit in new york. it also emphasises the importance of clinical research being taken forward if we are to find solutions to a challenge as great as hiv/aids. i can assure the honourable member, who i know has an abiding and passionate commitment to tackling injustice, not just at home but abroad, that we are determined to support the efforts of the partnership as i described, not least through the efforts of the department for international development that she highlighted in her question, but also by encouraging other member states to play their important role in what is a hugely important contribution by the european union plus norway to confronting a genuinely global challenge and a global problem.
president-in-office of the council. the draft agreement referred to by the honourable member does not cover air transport between cyprus and azerbaijan. the sole purpose of this draft agreement is to ensure that, where a bilateral agreement between a member state and azerbaijan exists, such an agreement complies with community law. since there is no such bilateral agreement between cyprus and azerbaijan, this draft agreement has no bearing on the issue the honourable member raises relating to flights from azerbaijan to the area of the republic of cyprus in which the government of the republic does not exercise effective control.
mr president, i thank the minister for his very comprehensive answer. however, let me observe that he is giving me technical answers to a purely political question. we all know, of course, that azerbaijan must comply with the directives of the united nations and icao, but i would like to know what the council's view is of the fact that azerbaijan continues to maintain flights to airports in the occupied territories of the republic of cyprus.
president-in-office of the council. i endorse wholeheartedly the points that have been made by the questioner. of course israel has a right to protect itself from acts of terrorism, but equally all of us understand that it is necessary to find a way forward and a political solution to the challenges of the middle east. in that regard, and notwithstanding the very real difficulties that the middle east continues to face, i think we should take pride in the efforts that the european union has been able to make in this troubled and difficult area of the world and we should be encouraged in particular by the strength that mr wolfensohn has been able to bring to his role as the quartet’s special envoy. of course there is more work to be done, of course the european union stands ready to make those points directly to israel and to the palestinian authorities, and of course the european union stands ready to help in other ways if it can. however, i would simply reiterate that, ultimately, the responsibility lies primarily with israel and with the palestinian authorities. it is both a great test for them and also a great opportunity, for exactly the reasons the questioner set out.
president-in-office of the council. i say to the honourable member that, firstly, the issue of economic development is inextricably bound up with the issue of security. the european union is committed to continuing the enhanced support for the palestinian civil policing through eu corps, in order to help build the necessary security environment in gaza following israeli withdrawal, so as to allow exactly the kind of economic development that is necessary. we also welcome the agreement between the governments of israel and egypt on basic security arrangements along the gaza-egypt border. a resolution to the issue of the crossing point on the rafah border is also needed and is essential to the fate of other crossings and issues such as the port and airport. the european union continues to be one of the biggest international donors to the palestinian authority. last year assistance to the palestinians from the european community amounted to some eur 250 million. that included assistance to refugees, food aid, the health and education sectors, the private sector, municipalities and institution-building. the commission has recently announced a larger package of support to the palestinians and will provide around eur 280 million in 2005. that money includes a substantial contribution to help tackle the priorities identified by mr james wolfensohn. the european union’s aim is to ensure that disengagement is a success and a step toward implementing the roadmap. the commission attaches strict conditionality to the budgetary assistance it has provided to the palestinian authority. the conditions mainly reinforce the need for transparency of the palestinian authority’s public finances, strengthening the prudent management of the budget and encouraging progress on overall financial and administrative reform.
president-in-office of the council. after the terrorist attacks in london on 7 july 2005, the council reiterated the urgent need for an eu instrument on retention of communications data, called for in the wake of the madrid bombings, and made a commitment to agree to it by october 2005. the draft framework decision tabled by four member states in april 2004 does not aim at recording the content of any communication, but rather at the retention of so-called traffic data. these data, such as the names of the persons connected with a phone call or the time of the communication, are necessary for law enforcement authorities effectively to investigate criminal offences and bring successful prosecutions in an age when criminals exploit the advantages of modern communications facilities. the proposal for a directive on retention of traffic data, which the commission adopted on 21 september 2005, and which the council considered in october, also concerns traffic data and not the content of communications. a decision has yet to be made on whether the framework decision or directive is the appropriate legal base for such rules by the council on data retention. in the meantime, work will continue on the substance, in consultation, of course, with the commission and the european parliament. at its meeting on 2 july 2004, the council stressed the need to give particular consideration to the proportionality of the measure in relation to costs, privacy and efficiency. the council aims at an instrument that balances law enforcement requirements with the right to privacy and costs, and which is compatible with member states’ constitutions.
i'm the deputy editor. mr president, mr minister, thank you for your reply, but in view of the conclusions of the council's legal service and the legal problems which would arise from any adoption of this proposal under the third pillar, as well as the information concerning the commitment of the dutch minister not to agree to a proposal under this pillar, when does the council intend to withdraw its proposal?
author. – mr president, firstly i should like to add my voice to that of the previous speakers and say how wonderful it has been to see that the attempts made by some to stop parliament from passing a joint resolution today on western sahara have been unsuccessful. let this be a precedent and a warning for the future: hypocrisy and false, pretentious tactics should never stand in the way of our will and determination to express condemnation for human rights abuses anywhere in the world. refugees are protected by various un resolutions, un protocols and un conventions. in some cases this protection is effective, and in many cases it is lifesaving. in others, unfortunately, the situation is not as it should be and innocent civilians suffer hunger, ill treatment, disease and even death. such is the case currently for a large number of refugees in western sahara. it is reported reliably that hundreds of people have been subjected to inhumane treatment by the moroccan authorities in the regions of the so-called spanish enclaves of ceuta and melilla, where many migrants have been shot dead while attempting to enter spanish territory. now, why there is spanish territory in morocco is another story. there is a similar reason, i suppose, as to why there is british soil in cyprus, or why there is – or has been until recently – french soil in faraway oceanic lands. perhaps modern colonisation is not entirely finished, but then, who wants to talk about such sensitive matters? after all, some of the old colonising powers – of which we are all constantly reminded in this house – are splendid examples of fighters for the principles of democracy, freedom and respect for human rights. that is fair enough. coming back to the subject-matter of this resolution and in conclusion, this joint resolution makes it absolutely clear to the moroccan government, and to all other interested parties, that we expect nothing less than their doing their utmost fully to safeguard the rights of refugees in western sahara.
mr president, last week was the 16th anniversary of the end of the division of germany. this year is the 31st anniversary of the division of cyprus; almost half of cyprus is occupied by turkey. until 16 years ago, germany was divided by russian communism. today cyprus is divided by turkish fascism, and turkish occupation is continuously being strengthened. recently, after threatening un observers, the turkish forces extended their grip into the un buffer zone in the region east of nicosia. i managed to lower the turkish flag from a new military post being built in that area and brought it here today in order to remind my fellow meps, once again, that an eu member state is occupied by a candidate country and yet the eu seems strangely able to tolerate this absurd situation. i wish to hand this flag to you, mr president, and request that you send it to the turkish premier telling him that our patience has run out and that he must, without further delay or excuses, get his occupation troops off cypriot european union soil.
mr president, we all seem to agree that the decommissioning of nuclear power plants is necessary on safety and environmental grounds, but the real question is who should pay for it, and should this cost not be taken into account when planning new nuclear power plants in the future? we have heard that in the eu about 60 nuclear power plants need to be decommissioned in the next 20 years, at an average cost of eur 500 million apiece. that means that a staggering eur 30 billion will be needed over the next 20 years! that is about 30 times the annual budget of my country, cyprus, and a cost the equivalent of building hundreds of hospitals, schools and other institutions of public value. my country has had nothing to do with nuclear material, apart from the disgraceful storage by britain of nuclear bombs at the colonial british bases there. is it not fairer that countries which have benefited from nuclear energy production should themselves contribute far more significantly to decommissioning their nuclear power plants? and why should those who were responsible for building those stations – for example the russian government, as well as various multinational companies – not be called to contribute in accordance with the ‘polluter pays’ principle? furthermore, would it not be fairer if that contribution came from eu countries which themselves benefit from nuclear energy production? it is my strong view that member states which do not use nuclear energy should not pay for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in other member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that we have the opportunity today, in the presence of the president of the council and the president of the commission, to take stock of the informal european council which took place at the end of last month. unfortunately, while the idea of convening the council was not bad, the execution suffered the most. indeed, at a time when the european union is breathing down its necks after counting 20 million unemployed, when we do not know how to deal with social problems, especially those that have recently erupted in france, and when public confidence in government is declining exponentially, the idea of european union leaders meeting in london to discuss the european social model and resistance to globalisation seemed to be a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind you, mr president, that mr blair, in his speech on the same stage here in the european parliament on 23 june, said that he had always been an enthusiastic supporter of europe. i wonder, four and a half months later, how mr blair is turning those words into action. what is the assessment of the presidency of its country so far, since a month before its expiry we have not reached agreement on the financial perspective. the social model has not advanced a single inch and the council's response to globalisation is to create an ambiguous regulatory fund. i really wonder, mr president of the commission, whether you have given serious thought to the reaction of the dismissed workers when you tell them that the fund is responsible for all the evils of globalisation. mr president, the british presidency had the opportunity to make history at hampton court. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is already in the process of adopting a new proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
mr president, i feel deeply offended by the previous speaker. i do not know why he was allowed to continue to say those absurdities to this house and to us. i feel personally offended and i ask you to take action. (applause)
mr president, commissioner, the most dangerous weapon of mass destruction is the nuclear bomb. this bomb, this weapon, has been used twice by the usa, killing hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians in a split second. it has also been used by britain, france, russia and china in nuclear tests, causing immense environmental damage. these countries, along with israel, india and pakistan, belong to the fearful nuclear club of eight that holds the whole world to ransom. they terrorise the entire international community with their warmongering irresponsibility, threatening each other with deadly nuclear games of annihilation, and they violently insult our intelligence by trying to force upon us their view that nuclear suicide is a form of deterrence. the governments of these countries, using a logic intelligible only to single-minded warlords ready to sacrifice the whole of humanity in their quest for short-term economic profit, are spending astronomical amounts of money in building a nuclear arsenal capable of destroying the world many times over – and all that we can manage to do is to pass resolutions on ineffective strategies calling for non-proliferation. why do not we call loudly and clearly on the nuclear bomb countries to get rid of their stockpiles of weapons now? why do we tolerate in our european community nuclear-bomb disaster countries like britain and france? why do we not pass resolutions or take measures against these two countries? and why should a small country like mine, cyprus, live with the threat of a nuclear disaster because britain wants to store, against our wishes, nuclear bombs in its colonial british bases on the island? the answer is, in my view, shamefully simple: we lack political courage. so, we choose to be hypocrites instead – and life goes on as usual.
author. – mr president, this is not the first time that a resolution on burma has been put before this parliament. only a few months ago, a joint resolution condemning the gross violation of human rights in that country was passed unanimously. unfortunately, as is often the case when dealing with totalitarian regimes, the burmese dictatorship took only minimal notice of that resolution. the brutality and repression practised by the burmese military against their own people has continued unabated and serious human rights abuses, including rape and pillage by government soldiers, have continued to take place. furthermore, an estimated 1 000 political prisoners are still being held illegally and, on 2 november, 10 prominent human rights democracy and peace activists were given a total of 756 years in sentences. needless to say, their trials were totally unfair, they were denied representation by lawyers of their choice and prevented from having access to their families. so the burmese dictators leave us with no option but to proceed with a tougher resolution, such as the one before us today. amongst other things, we call on the un security council urgently to address the situation in burma and we insist that the eu’s common policy on burma be strengthened by taking certain practical punitive measures. the resolution also calls for a high-ranking eu envoy to be appointed to work towards securing the release of political prisoners, helping in humanitarian issues and generally assisting and bringing about the much-needed democratic reforms in that nation. let us hope that the burmese dictators will, on this occasion, take more serious note of our condemnations and concerns and that they will proceed speedily along the only logical avenue open to them, which is the one that leads to the democratisation of their long-suffering country.
mr president, i do not want to speak in favour of voting today. i just wanted to bring the attention of the house to the fact that we do not want to create a dustbin parliamentary period on thursday afternoon as a result of saying that everything which seems to be more important than other things can be postponed to a future date. i do not object; i do not hold strong views on the subject and i certainly do not want to upset my good friend mr martínez, but there is a danger that we could create inferior subjects and superior subjects.
mr president, during last week’s meeting of the eu-turkey joint parliamentary committee here in parliament, the chief turkish accession negotiator, mr ali babacan, accused parliament of having terrorist supporters in its corridors. i find that accusation unacceptable and offensive. it undermines the resolve of our parliament to fight terrorism. i therefore call upon the president of this house to take up the matter with the turkish government and ask mr babacan to withdraw such an insulting statement. since i am talking about terrorists, may i bring to the attention of my fellow meps the fact that the turkish occupation army in cyprus has continued to terrorise the people of cyprus. on this occasion, and for the second time in the last two months, it has extended its military presence in the buffer zone, this time in the town of nicosia at the ledra street level. i call upon you, mr president, to write to the turkish government and ask it to end the division of cyprus as soon as possible.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, avian flu is clearly a major fatal threat to birds and humans. millions of avian deaths have recently been caused by the virus responsible and many human conditions are being attributed directly to the highly pathogenic avian influenza virus, hpai. however, avian flu is not a new disease. in fact, it is thought to have been around ever since viruses themselves were discovered and it is most likely to be just as old as the common flu virus itself, i.e. probably many thousands of years old. the threat to humans is not new either. studies using molecular biology techniques indicate that the influenza pandemic which erupted at the end of the first world war was in fact caused by an avian flu virus. that pandemic killed approximately 50 million people. it is of interest that, as with most influenza pandemics, the 1918 flu pandemic only lasted for about one year and gradually disappeared in the subsequent period. this happened without the use of antiviral agents, vaccines or radical measures having been taken in poultry farming, but thanks to the most effective means of disease defence called natural resistance. this should perhaps cause us to carefully consider how drastic our precautionary measures should be. this is why i agree with both the commissioner and the rapporteur that a balanced approach is the most rational to take. i feel that any measures we take should be in accordance with nature’s defence mechanisms and not in opposition to them. it is therefore my view that close scientific monitoring of the epidemiology and molecular biology of the avian flu virus is essential. i believe that massive culling of lpai-infected holdings is not strictly necessary – let us remind ourselves that we have been eating scrapie-infected sheep and goats for over 200 years and no human has yet died from scrapie infections. i am also of the opinion that vaccinations of flocks are costly, cumbersome and perhaps of dubious significance – rather, we should aim at researching and promoting the breeding of naturally-resistant birds. in addition, assistance should be given to developing countries to improve primitive holdings conditions and poultry food hygiene, which is very important. lastly, the panic-stocking of antiviral drugs of doubtful effectiveness and without proper scrutiny of their sometimes lethal side-effects is not wise. it deprives much-needed resources from healthcare systems and mainly helps further to enrich pharmaceutical companies.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur, mr van hecke, on the enormous amount of work done in relation to this report. the subject matter was difficult and complicated. it is to be noted that, in the codecision procedure followed in respect of this proposal for a regulation, there were intense negotiations which culminated, i am glad to say, in a compromise text which includes most of the essential key points. in my opinion, the inclusion of the following points in the compromise text is of particular significance. firstly, the necessity of vital technology transfer and technical assistance to countries deficient in national drug manufacturing capacity. such assistance will help much-needed, long-term improvement of healthcare provision in underdeveloped countries. secondly, the extension of eligibility to non-wto members: such countries are just as much in need of assistance under the provisions of this regulation as wto member countries. public health concerns and disease prevention and treatment cannot be differentiated on the grounds of wto membership. thirdly, the extension of applicants to ngos and international organisations such as the united nations: it is well known that many ngos and international organisations play a major role in providing vital healthcare services in developing countries. their rapid involvement in fighting disease and poverty and eliminating human suffering, especially in disaster-stricken regions, is well established and in most instances it is more important and better coordinated than national government assistance efforts. it is therefore only logical that a request from an ngo acting with authorisation from an importing country should be eligible under these regulations. finally, although this regulation will no doubt help save millions of lives worldwide, i feel it has come a little too late. let us recall that the trips agreement was adopted in 1994; the landmark doha declaration on trips and public health was produced in 2001; the decision of the general council of the wto was taken in 2003 and this regulation will probably come into force in 2006. i wonder whether such a delay may have been responsible for much confusion, inaction and probably unnecessary human suffering in the developing world.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to an incident which took place last week in miami in the united states and on which i believe that we as a house must take a stand. a 44-year-old american man with a history of psychiatric illness was flying with his wife from miami to orlando when suddenly, for reasons still unexplained, he felt the need to get off the plane. he did it running and was followed by a policeman who shouted at him to stop. when the passenger disobeyed orders, he was executed in cold blood in the boarding area. eyewitnesses say they heard as many as six shots. it is the second execution, mr president, to take place in the space of a few months after the unfortunate incident with the brazilian national in london. so we have to ask ourselves if this is the society we want to build, where the authorities shoot first and ask for explanations later. we are creating a morbid climate of fear in the citizenry, which will lead to unpleasant developments in the future. i therefore believe that we as a house must condemn such actions and do our utmost to ensure that any legislation passed by this house is pro-citizen and not pro-violence.
mr president, i understand that you are applying the rules of procedure, and very correctly, but the commissioner, mr rehn, has only been given 12 minutes of the 20 minutes allotted to him to reply. i have the 76th question and you have prevented the commissioner from answering mine or the next question, despite giving him 12 minutes of the 20 he was entitled to.
matsakis, on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, due to time constraints i will make only one comment, a self-critical one, with regard to hong kong. we are calling for the abolition of the system whereby the chief executive is chosen by a committee made up of about 800 hong kong residents selected by beijing. to be fair, however, such a system is arguably better than the previous system whereby the ex-british colony was administered by a governor appointed by the queen of england. i cannot recall the european parliament passing any resolutions at that time condemning britain for imposing such an undemocratic system on the people of hong kong. then again, what right does this house have, even today, to criticise british colonial policies? it dared not do so in the past, and i expect it would not dare do so now concerning britain’s occupation of approximately 300 square kilometres of cyprus as a colony, where thousands of cypriot civilians are governed by an administrator appointed by the queen of england. before i become too controversial for my honourable british colleagues, let me finish by saying that in this resolution we call for the setting of a timetable for the election of hong kong’s chief executive by universal suffrage. nevertheless, we should, in the near future, pass a resolution calling for an end to britain’s colonisation of cyprus.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the commission shares the concerns of the european parliament regarding the human rights situation in china, in particular the detention of monks and closure of monasteries in tibet, as well as constitutional developments in hong kong. these issues are very high on the agenda of our dialogue with china. the commission also welcomes and supports the general affairs and external relations council's conclusions of 12 december, which voice strong concern over china’s human rights policy – in particular, with respect to the rights of minorities. on 12 december, the general affairs and external relations council also approved the commission’s negotiating mandate for a new partnership and cooperation agreement with china. the mandate also stipulates that a partnership agreement with china will contain a standard clause on human rights. i wish to stress that, for many years, we have not concluded agreements with other parties without such a human rights clause. as regards hong kong, the european union supports democracy throughout the world as the best means of creating legitimate, stable, accountable and transparent government, of protecting rights and freedom, and of upholding the rule of law. it supports early and substantial progress towards the ultimate goal of universal suffrage in hong kong, as set out in the basic law, in line with the wishes of the people of hong kong. it is important that we maintain pressure on china to work towards universal suffrage in hong kong. as regards the situation in tibet, the european union has put tibet very high on its agenda with china. it has, in particular, mainly focused its attention on the preservation of the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the tibetan people. the present situation in the region, which we follow very closely, raises grave concern, especially with respect to the exercise of religious freedom. we are worried to see that the local authorities have imposed a strict framework setting limits on the exercise of this freedom, and we deplore the recent cases of detention of monks and, in particular, the blockade of the monastery of drepung in lhasa. we hope that a solution compatible with both chinese sovereignty and respect for the tibetan population will be found soon. in our view, to reach this ultimate goal, there is no alternative but a peaceful process based on dialogue. we have called for years, and will continue to call, for the establishment of such a dialogue. we, therefore, fully support the process which has been taking place over the past years between beijing and the representatives of the dalai lama. we firmly believe that only such a direct dialogue can be conducive to a lasting solution of the tibetan issue. in our view, the opening of a direct dialogue should not be made subject to any precondition. on the other hand, the respective parties should refrain from taking any step that would compromise the establishment of the climate of confidence that appears indispensable, if a solution is to be reached.
author. – mr president, it is only true and fair to say that in recent years, russia has, overall, made significant progress towards the respect of human rights, and this we must praise. unfortunately, there are still a number of areas where progress is much needed in this vast country, with its very long and unique history and culture, and it must be encouraged to proceed with the outstanding issues, where reform is necessary. such an issue is that of ngo legislation. it is a well accepted fact that ngos and non-profit-making organisations are often key to developing a strong and well functioning civil society. such organisations, ranging from children's charities to consumer groups, are not present in very large numbers in russia. it is, of course, a fact that russia has suffered severely from terrorism in the last few years and public sentiment, expressed through elected representatives, may, when dealing with certain ngos, especially those in chechnya, border on the extreme and tend to be unduly legalistic and severe. although this may be understandable under certain circumstances, it is not acceptable in terms of proper respect of human rights. we therefore call on the russian duma to listen to our advice and take the necessary time to review and impose the amendments concerned with the legislation, in the light of the recommendations expressed in the presidential review, the council of europe provisional opinion and this resolution.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, human rights violations in ethiopia are not a new thing. nor is condemnation of these violations new. twice in 2005 this parliament passed resolutions on the situation in ethiopia, and twice we were disappointed by the response. recently the ethiopian ruling regime undertook an alarmingly gigantic crack-down operation against political leaders, human rights defenders, independent journalists, ngo workers and young people voicing opposition to the government in addis abba. thousands of civilians have been arrested and detained without trial. about 8 000 have now been released, but an unknown number still remain in custody. we are also most concerned about troop movements on both the ethiopian and eritrean sides of the border. the fear of a new war is now real and the devastating hostilities of the recent past may once again become a nightmare reality of the present. we call on the ethiopian government to respect the human rights of its citizens and we also call on both the ethiopian and eritrean governments to show restraint, abide by the un security council resolutions and, in the spirit of good faith, resolve their border differences peacefully. i will conclude by saying that what we heard from mrs gomes was most disturbing and serious and i hope the commission will be able to give answers to the questions she posed.
