mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the resolution on the european constitutional treaty is written in a very positive spirit. we recommend a perfect work here, as if we were unaware of its weaknesses. but we should not ignore the voices that point out the shortcomings of the current draft constitution. we can agree that despite all efforts, this constitution is neither transparent nor comprehensible. i am also struck by the fact that the resolution does not take much account of democratic debate and thus labels those who have reservations about the treaty as anti-european. the european constitution is a practical instrument that will shape european integration for the next decade. europe can either move towards a bureaucratic federalism of superstates or towards the political opposite of a liberal and competitive europe. let us be clear: accepting or not accepting the euro is first and foremost a political choice, not an integration necessity. and in this case, it is perfectly legitimate to vote for or against the adoption of the constitution. ratification is often presented as a necessary step, one that is not worth discussing too much. the advocates of the euro are sometimes even threatening that the union will not be restrained by the few states that do not ratify the constitution, pushing them to the periphery and forcing them to settle for some weaker form of association. i find this approach very unfair. i have referred to the danger of violating democratic principles many times, i grew up in a political system where every election was supposed to be a joyful and cheerful yes to the only possible choice. i would strongly advise against using the same principles here. i do not want to deal directly with the constitutional treaty in my speech. i would simply like to stress the need for an open and democratic debate and that any rejection does not mean either a tragedy or the end of the process of european integration. on the contrary, it could lead to a deeper reflection on the direction of european integration and where voters would really like to see it. thank you for your attention.
i once wrote a book on the origins of the theory of human rights and the american constitution, so i understand the positive aspects of this document. but what i do not understand is that the european parliament wants to voluntarily condemn itself to a secondary position by supporting this document. in article iii-303, point 2 shall read as follows: 'a european law shall determine the conditions and general arrangements for the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament. the european parliament shall act on its own initiative after having requested the opinion of the commission and after having obtained the consent of the council. the council shall act unanimously on all rules and conditions relating to the tax arrangements of its current or former members. this is preserved by the superiority of the commission, the executive, which has more rights than we do, and it is also preserved by the unjust differences that exist between us as the legitimate representatives of the european people. we are the only ones with real legitimacy and all the other european institutions derivative, so i think this provision must disappear. and if mrs wallström has spoken here about getting more democracy, i think we don't want more democracy, we want democracy, and we want real democracy.
mr. chairman, for the first time, we have here members who bring 50 years of experience of living under totalitarian rule. today, when we are dealing with the draft european constitution, i sometimes feel as if i were in the old days. by direct election, an unauthorized assembly called the convention has produced a hasty document. similarly, the ruling elite in our country once made decisions and then passed their decisions off as fatal inevitabilities. we are taught today that the rejection of the constitution will cause a catastrophe of cosmic proportions. life has shown that no disasters have occurred. it's not happening now. a hybrid body was created, blending constitutional principles with practical policies, opening up a boundless field of interpretation to uncontrollable eu officials. we'll find a parallel here as well. we also had documents that were passing decision-making from our country to others without authorization. we are sitting in a parliament decorated with ceremonial banners to the constitution. on such occasions, we too would put up banners and listen to the loud blasting of the air to obscure the euphoria of the document that had been approved. we do not need a european constitution. what we don't need is this confusing document we're voting on. and what we don't need is to spend eu funds on fancy parties. let's send this money to sri lanka.
the debate has been adjourned until 3:00.
ladies and gentlemen, the european constitutional treaty is another important step in the development of european integration. it creates the conditions for the enlarged european union to act as a decisive factor in european development and, of course, to influence developments in the world. i see the contribution of the european constitutional treaty in that it brings the union closer to the citizens, extends the rights of the citizens of the european union, incorporates the charter of fundamental rights into primary law, simplifies the legal system, replaces the main european treaties with a single text. furthermore, the constitution strengthens the democratic character of the union, enhancing, inter alia, the role of the european parliament and also the role of the parliaments of the member states. it creates the conditions for effective decision-making by the european union and also clarifies the powers of the european union vis-à-vis the member states. and, among other things, and this is very important also in the light of events in south-east asia, it also strengthens the union's ability to act as a cohesive and unified force in the international community. for all these reasons and many others, which i cannot mention here, the social democrats, including the czech social democrats whom i represent here, will vote in favour of the draft constitutional treaty. as for my home country, the czech republic, the ratification of the european constitution will not be easy. the european constitution is opposed not only by the communists but also by the conservative right, represented here in the european people's party. i would therefore like to invite mr poettering and the other leaders of the european people's party, i see here for example my colleague mr karas, to come to the czech republic and help the pro-european czech forces to ratify the european constitution. the civic democratic party you've taken into your ranks won't do the job for you. thank you, sir.
i am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that i was able to participate as an observer in the repeated presidential elections in ukraine, and i agree with commissioner potočnik that it was essential that everything went without bloodshed and that the elections were held in accordance with european standards, both in terms of organisation and technology, although not without some comments. but visiting ukraine during the repeated presidential elections has reinforced my belief that the reality of life is dramatically different from its media image. i regret to say that euronews' news coverage was surprisingly orange-toned. i don't understand why we have to manufacture enemies and sow mass misunderstandings east of home. but i think our task today is not to moralize ukraine, nor russia, nor the media, but to help the ideals of understanding in europe. i would therefore recommend that we support the working groups which will begin to analyse the conditions for ukraine's accession to the european union. it is not just a matter of helping ukraine and the union by bringing them together, but we must also contribute to the stabilisation of the political situation in ukraine by helping to fulfil one of the election promises of the new president. at the same time, we will help to realize a goal that has never been in conflict with the demands of the blue, only presented differently in the media and politically. secondly, i recommend that we open a discussion on the code of democratic elections. it is not only necessary to establish uniformly the principles that must be met in order for elections to be recognized as democratic, it is also necessary to say to what extent we are willing to tolerate deviations of real life from our ideals. third, i recommend that we establish criteria of tolerance for foreign interference in democratic processes. it is an undeniable truth that every state has a legitimate right to defend its interest in having a government in any country that is favorable to it. but in such a situation, can we talk about the legitimacy of an elected government? these are questions we must answer. thank you, sir.
mr president of the european commission, it is also part of your plans to present the european constitution to the citizens of the european union in a way that is understandable. i would therefore ask the commission to include in this strategy a precise definition of the concept of europeanism. the constitution says that europeanism will be the basis for the selection of the next european commissioners, which means that the european union will be the de facto government for the 450 million citizens of the european union. i cannot explain to the citizens of the czech republic, whom i represent here, what europeanism is. i cannot say which of the commissioners and members present has a bigger and better european union. i don't know what criteria distinguish good and bad europeans today. i come from a country where for decades, people have been elevated not by their ability, education, initiative and performance, but by how loudly and how often they have declared their commitment to a single political idea. and for this way of managing society, the countries of eastern europe pay a heavy tax in economic backwardness to this day. i would not like to see the european union promote such concepts as europeanism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that in his speech mr barroso, president of the european commission, did not call into question the need to preserve the european social model or offer to trade it for greater competitiveness. what i missed in his speech, however, was the emphasis on the need to maintain and deepen social dialogue. i am referring to negotiations between trade unions and employers' organisations at all levels, including the european level. i am convinced that everything that has been achieved in post-war europe is the result of the cooperation of sensible governments and employers' organisations with trade unions. in assessing the proposals to make europe more competitive, its labour market more flexible and the conditions for doing business more transparent and easier, i cannot help feeling that the last obstacle to this actually happening is, in the eyes of many, the democratically established powerful trade unions. unfortunately, we are witnessing today, especially in some of the newly acceded countries, the confusion between social dialogue and social monologue among the representatives of the conservative parties. there are attempts to change industrial relations, which have been built for over a century, into individual relations. this is supported by the primitive argument that every individual is free to choose and apply in the labour market. it is therefore good that our group is putting the emphasis on creating more and better jobs. europe is not and will not lose what american trade unionists aptly call 'meg jobs'. there are many ways of dismantling the welfare state, and some of them have unfortunately been tried with success in the once rich and stable countries of the south american region. and that's why no privatization of public services, no privatization of pension systems. i am satisfied with most of the european labour legislation, but what does not satisfy me is the lack of control over what has been adopted and what is subsequently not complied with and violated in some member states. how will you ensure that good european directives do not remain on paper? thank you, sir.
mr president, today commemorating the atrocities of the shoah we still have lessons to learn. the middle east is far from being free of racism, xenophobia and hatred. palestinian textbooks which are sponsored by the eu are still full of anti-semitism, explaining zionism as the source of the word ‘evil’. the palestinian elections represent a light at the end of the tunnel. the work done by the eu was very good. the representation of women was very good. second place for mustafa barghouti is a democratic dream. nevertheless, cautious optimism must be our stand. we should offer an opportunity to mahmoud abbas to conciliate security forces, to come up with legislative and economic reform. we should strengthen the position of the quartet, instead of confusing it with the geneva initiative. we should also be aware of the very sensitive situation in israel. we should, today of all days, recognise the right of israeli people to self-defence, the right of mothers and fathers to secure the lives of their children by that unfortunate security measure, the security wall. it is not yet time to dismantle it, not until hamas no longer has the upper hand in security in the area. we know there is not only palestinian and israeli extremism, there is very much a syrian plot against democratisation, spreading its hizbollah know-how, men and weapons to the gaza strip even before this engagement. how ready are we to put pressure on syria? how ready are we to use the tool of association agreements for the good of peoples in the region? mr solana, coming from prague, in a post-communist country, i would like to ask you one question. you said in a press release after the euromed ministerial that the barcelona process did not entirely materialise because of certain circumstances at national levels. i would like to ask you what we are all going to do for true democratisation and to encourage democracy in the middle east.
at the end of this debate i received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12:00.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission - world social forum, world economic forum.
at the end of that debate i received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12:00.
the next item is the joint debate on: report (a6-0020/2005) by antonio di pietro, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the exchange of criminal records data (com (2004) 0664 - c6-0163/2004 - 2004/0238 (cns)) report (a6-0036/2005) by antónio costa, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the quality of the criminal justice system and the harmonisation of criminal law in the eu member states (com (2005) 0364 - c6-0163/2004 (cns)) report (a6-0036/2005) by antónio costa, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the quality of the criminal justice system and the harmonisation of the criminal law in the eu member states (com (2005) 0364 - cns)) report (a6-0036/2005) by antónio costa, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a recommendation from the european parliament to the council on the european parliament, the european parliament, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs committee, and the internal affairs committee on the internal affairs committee,
the next item is the debate on the commission's questions (b6-0009/2005). we're going to discuss a number of questions to the commission. part one is questions for commissioner mccreevy.
question no 41 by katerina batzeli (h-0046/05) subject: provision of services by construction companies in the context of proposal for a directive com(2004)0002/final the services covered by the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of services in the internal market include construction, technical and architectural services, and audiovisual services which are not covered by the multiannual community audiovisual programme. given the importance of the country of origin in cases where cross-border services are provided without the provider being established in the member state where the service is performed, and the directive's objective of establishing an open internal market and enforcing the principle of non-discrimination, can technical, architectural and construction companies provide services or take part in public works contracts in the country of establishment when they might also participate as shareholders in companies providing audiovisual services in the country of origin, which is not a reason for excluding them from providing services in the private sector?
question no 42 by jacek protasiewicz (h-0092/05) subject: discrimination against polish workers and companies in the eu internal market on the eu internal market, there is unequal treatment of polish companies and workers, who encounter unjustified barriers in carrying out their activities. does the commission know of examples of discrimination or of regulations which contravene the treaties (the treaty of accession, annex xii, freedom of movement for persons, paragraph 13, and in particular the transitional regulations on the freedom of movement of persons) found in the national laws of the eu member states of austria, the netherlands and italy, which allow such practices, or is it aware of any breaches by germany of article 49, first paragraph, of the treaty establishing the european community and article 1 of directive 96/71/ec oj l 18, 21.1.1997, p.1 relating to the posting of temporary workers through temporary employment agencies? what steps has the commission taken or does it intend to take to address these?
question no 43 by johan van hecke (h-0050/05) subject: dumping and irregular imports from ukraine; fraud involving certificates of originpet (plastic) bottles are made from 'preforms'. in the european union, a general import duty rate of 6.5% applies to such preforms. the eu grants certain countries, such as ukraine, a preferential rate of 0% if a certificate of origin (form a) can be produced for the preforms. in the case of ukraine, the form means that the preforms have been made from material originating in ukraine or at least elsewhere in europe. i have established that preforms are currently being imported into the european union from ukraine under cover of form a (certificate of origin) at implausibly low prices, bearing in mind current european commodity prices. this must therefore involve dumping and/or fraud in the completion of the certificates of origin (material from asia being used) in order to evade import duty, to the detriment of other suppliers. is the commission aware of this? will it investigate the matter and take the necessary action? will it raise the matter with the ukraine authorities and, if appropriate, refer it to olaf?
question no 45 by bernd posselt (h-0575/04) subject: trans-european high-speed rail link what measures does the commission intend to take to promote the further development of the trans-european high-speed rail link from paris via strasbourg to munich and budapest?
question no 46 by john purvis (h-0002/05) subject: road transport accidents is there any evidence that drivers from left-hand-drive countries are more likely than residents to be involved in road accidents in right-hand-driving countries and similarly right-hand-drivers in left-hand-driving countries? are european road accidents increased in number and severity because some countries drive on the right and others on the left?
question no 47 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0006/05) subject: proposal for a directive for port services in its proposal for a directive on port services (com(2004)0654/final), the commission provides its clearest definition to date of the term and application of 'self-handling'. despite this, major organisations, such as the european transport workers' federation and the european sea ports organisation, are concerned about the likelihood of social unrest in ports, the discouragement of potential investors and the ensuing decline in competitiveness. what is the commission's response to the concerns of the trade unions and how does it intend to ensure that workers already registered with trade unions will not suffer any discrimination, resulting ultimately in a reduction in their employment prospects and income? furthermore, how does the commission respond to the charge by the above trade union organisations that the 'self-handling' provision is incompatible with ilo convention 137 on cargo handling in docks?
question no 48 by georgios papastamkos (h-0008/05) subject: transport network in southeast europe in view of the forthcoming accession of bulgaria and romania and the upgrading of relations between the balkan countries and the eu to higher levels of cooperation (stabilisation and association agreements, pre-accession strategy) the question arises whether there are any plans to unify the southeast europe economic area, mainly from the point of view of road and railway infrastructures. what specific initiatives has the commission already taken, or does it intend to take in future, to establish vertical and horizontal crossborder (international) links and corresponding infrastructures to facilitate crossborder trade between greece, the candidate countries and the other states of southeast europe which have their sights firmly fixed on europe?
question no 49 by ignasi guardans cambó (h-0016/05) subject: rail transport liberalisation the liberalisation of spain’s railways, in accordance with european parliament and council directive 2004/51/ec oj l 164, 30.4.2004, p. 164., entered into force on 1 january 2005. opening the railways up to competition is very important in order to attain the lisbon objectives and to guarantee competitiveness in europe. however, certain measures can sometimes serve to hinder the process of full liberalisation. for example, this can happen as a result of a lack of harmonisation with regard to safety certificates. what steps does the commission intend to take to ensure that all the practical effects of liberalisation are addressed and to prevent certain member states from setting up internal mechanisms that could hinder liberalisation?
question no 50 by ewa hedkvist petersen (h-0036/05) subject: proposal for a directive on mandatory daytime running lights different provisions exist across the eu for the use of headlights during the daytime, and in some member states daytime running lights are mandatory on all roads, sweden for example. the experience from these countries illustrates the great safety benefits these provisions deliver. studies have found up to 24% reduction in daytime road fatalities due to mandatory daytime running lights see: swov (koornstra et el. 1997), and also toi (elvik, 1996) and etsc, brussels 2003.. i understand the luxembourg presidency of the council wishes to oversee progress on a directive on daytime running lights and has therefore requested the commission to adopt a proposal that has been in preparation. however, suggestions have been made that the commission would prefer to delay adopting this proposal until publication of the mid-term review of the third road safety programme due in june. can the commission confirm that it is preparing such a proposal and that it will adopt it with the utmost urgency rather than awaiting completion of another dossier? waiting a further six months, when mandatory daytime running lights are known to be very effective in saving lives and have a low cost, and the council presidency wants progress, would not be fulfilling the commission’s own approach to road safety of accepting a shared responsibility.
question no 51 by marta vincenzi (h-0070/05) subject: 2004/tren/052 the commission’s work programme refers to the ‘commission communication on the rights of users in the transport sector’ 2004/tren/052. to what extent is the commission willing to include in this communication, and explicitly support, the right to safety for passengers and goods using road infrastructure, by making it compulsory for maintenance work to take into account the needs of users and ensuring better designed road access and protection from the dangers of the road network in the member states?
question no 52 by richard howitt (h-0074/05) subject: the rights of passengers with reduced mobility when travelling by air could the commission explain the lengthy delay in tabling the ‘regulation on the rights of passengers with reduced mobility when travelling by air’, which was originally scheduled for submission in the first quarter of 2004? will the commission undertake to defend a final version of the regulation which does not contain an opt-out clause for airlines?
questions 53 and 54 will be answered in writing. questions to ms fischer boel
question no 55 by mairead mcguinness (h-0576/04) subject: less-favoured areas the less-favoured areas (lfa) system is an important mechanism providing funding for the regions concerned. in the case of ireland € 230 million is paid out to 100 000 farmers under the regime. given that in the future national handicaps, as opposed to socio-economic criteria, will be used to define lfas, can the commission guarantee that the same level of payments will continue to be made to those farmers currently in receipt of lfa funding?
question no 56 by michl ebner (h-0013/05) subject: definition of mountain areas and mountain forests article 18 of regulation (ec) 1257/99 oj l 302, 1.12.2000, p. 72. provides a definition of mountain areas with a view to their receiving aid from the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) under the heading of support for rural development. however, since that definition is not sufficiently comprehensive, calls have been made for many years now for mountain areas to be redefined. in september 2002, i was informed that a revision would be carried out. since then, however, nothing has changed. can the commission indicate when the revision of the definition of mountain areas and mountain forests will be carried out and published?
question no 57 by liam aylward (h-0026/05) subject: irish sugar factories the commission will be aware that, on 12 january 2005, the closure of one of only two remaining sugar factories in ireland was announced. it is highly likely that this move is the result of the negative scenarios that have been circulating about the future of the sugar industry. does the commission accept that this closure will have a profound effect on the local economy of the catchment area concerned, and, furthermore, will it clearly state that it will not allow – under any circumstances – the transfer of national sugar quotas under the new regime, since that would, in effect, cause the total destruction of the sugar industry in a member state, as would be the case in ireland?
commissioner, let me interrupt you. this supplementary question is not on the same topic.
question no 58 by åsa westlund (h-0035/05) subject: measures in support of the forestry industry it is estimated that forest to a value of a little over € 8 billion has been destroyed in the severe storm which recently swept through northern europe. employment in the timber, forestry and farming industries is threatened as well as future forestry. forest is crucially important in the eu's strategy for biological diversity, natura 2000 and in the eu's work to promote renewable energy and reduce the greenhouse effect. work is also currently in progress on drafting a common forestry policy for the union. will the commission assist the forestry industry in this difficult situation and ensure that no unnecessary red tape stands in the way of measures to make use, as far as possible, of the trees which have been blown to the ground? given the forestry industry's great economic, social and environmental importance, what measures will the commission take in support of that industry in those areas of sweden affected by the storm?
as the time allocated to commission question time is at an end, questions 59 to 103 will be answered in writing for questions not taken see 'question time ' annex. (the sitting was suspended at 19.10 and resumed at 21.00)
mr president, three years ago we were wondering what to do with iraq. some countries joined the coalition, some did not. the price we all paid was enormous. let us support democracy using our european soft means. let us support democracy in palestine by guiding hamas towards participation in fair elections. let us disarm it in our soft way. how should we do this? not via non-transparent budgetary support. we should fund ambitious and specific projects that directly counter hamas' demagogic propaganda. let us directly finance 200 doctors in the west bank and let us equip and maintain 100 primary schools in the same area with our full support, clearly acting under the european flag. this would be a 'soft' way to disarm hamas. there is another soviet style authoritarian regime in our mediterranean neighbourhood. we do not need to send troops, and we do not need to sign an association agreement with that regime. let us stick with resolution 1559. let us call for the immediate withdrawal of troops from lebanon. let us call for the free and fair elections in lebanon that arab street, beirut, is calling for today. but let us also separate syria from hizbollah, its terrorist companion, with no artificial distinctions between military and social links. we should put hizbollah on the european list of terrorist organisations immediately.
the european parliament must say a clear no to arms exports to china. i ask whether, for the sake of a higher turnover of a few european weapons, europe should give up its values and ambition to defend human rights effectively in the world. i hope that the council of ministers will take parliament's position to heart and step back from pragmatism. i warn you that otherwise europe will lose its influence on positive developments in asia and africa. what political tools will europe have left to enforce human rights, social, environmental and trade standards? independent organizations have testified to the murder, persecution and abduction of ideological opponents in china. it's not just the fallung gong, but christians, buddhists and others. what credit will the eu have if it lifts the embargo without mentioning the reasons for imposing it? the union has not even conducted its own investigation into the change in the human rights situation in china. is it blind to the obvious violations of international trade rules and intellectual property? it's a safety hazard too! i'm guided by an experience from the czech republic a few years ago. reporters have revealed how weapons were being exported to the congo, which is under a european embargo. it was the failure of politicians to allow the sale through unreliable zimbabwe. it tolerated the forgery of end-user certificates. remember, countries where there is no public scrutiny - (summary declaration under rule 142 of the rules of procedure)
for the group. i agree with most of what was said by my speakers. i too share the concern that the situation in moldova should calm down and that there might be closer cooperation with this european state. the commissioner has identified several problems relating to the elections. we talked about them yesterday when we were preparing our resolution and i think that the proposal which is being put to parliament is an acceptable compromise. as for the media problem, sources from the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe tell me that there has been a shift after all and that the ratio of airtime between the opposition and the ruling parties is about 50 to 50 in the state media, without the private media even one to 20 in favour of the opposition. it seems that the problem of student voting has been solved, as students will be able to vote both at their place of residence and their place of study. the same goes for the shift in identity documents, both soviet-era passports and those that would have expired today have been extended. in conclusion, i think there is a positive shift and there are no obstacles to the elections being held in a democratic and transparent manner, but it will be our job to oversee that as well.
for the group. i believe that overcoming poverty is not primarily a matter of increasing financial resources, but has a completely different context. in the 1960s, gunnar myrdal, a swedish economist, published a book called asian drama, in which he spoke of an atmosphere of pessimism. at the same time, africa was optimistic because africa had far more resources than the asian countries. today, the situation is quite the opposite. the doctrine of afro-pessimism is spreading, while a number of asian countries are moving forward. it depends on how the team behaves. it depends on the cultural background, because in africa, tribal structures have prevailed that have gained political power. and it also depends on the quality of the institutions. i must say that this comparison between africa and asia shows the direction in which the european union's development aid policy should be taking, helping to ensure that the resources available are used efficiently and in the direction of economic growth.
the reporter. first of all, let me thank all those who have worked with me in a very constructive way over the past period to produce this report on the promotion of health and safety at work, or osh for short. finally, i would like to thank all my colleagues on the committee on employment and social affairs for the attention they have paid to these issues, to the material presented, which shows that they consider the issue of health and safety at work to be an important part of european policies. we all know that this is an area that directly and deeply affects all working people. for your information, i would like to mention some of the alarming statistics contained in the report. in total, there are approximately five million occupational accidents in the union each year. around two thirds of workers are absent for more than three days and almost 14 per cent suffer more than one accident at work per year. some 160 million working days are lost each year, and nearly 300 000 workers are granted some degree of disability as a result of an accident at work or an occupational disease. in total, the union's losses from occupational diseases and accidents are estimated at up to 3,8% of gdp. these figures, in my view, demonstrate the high economic cost of the absence of an appropriate social policy, and this report, i stress, concerns only the original 15 member states. it must be admitted that there are not many effective instruments at european union level to deal with this issue effectively. but i am sure we can all agree that at least these tools at our disposal must be used as effectively as possible to improve working conditions. in view of the above, i very much appreciate that the draft of this report has been the subject of very intensive discussion not only in the employment committee but also with representatives of the commission and representatives of non-parliamentary institutions. we were able to clear up some misunderstandings about some matters. for example, it is of course up to the member states to adopt the appropriate national legislation, monitor the application and submit national implementation reports in a timely manner. at the first hearing, critical remarks were made on the wording concerning the commission. in this context, i am pleased that we had the opportunity to explain our approaches at the meeting with the commission representative and that we were generally in agreement on the assessment of the individual amendments. following that meeting, i also made adjustments to the text of the explanatory statement. i also supported the recommendations of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. as rapporteur, i have tried to cooperate fully with all the political groups in the committee and our cooperation has resulted in many balanced compromises. these compromises were supported by all the political groups and therefore the final vote in committee was unanimous. this report was originally scheduled to be voted on under rule 131. at the request of the pse group, a deadline has been set for amendments, and we have therefore now the opportunity to discuss the report. the epp group colleagues have tabled four amendments which have already been discussed and voted on once in the employment committee. let me make a few remarks about their content. the amendment to paragraph 6 seeks to omit a very important passage which emphasises the positive role of trade unions and employee representative organisations in the field of osh. it should be stressed that paragraph 6, as contained in the report, is the result of a compromise between all the political groups represented in the committee, including the epp. all the political groups in the committee voted in favour of this proposal. amendments nos 2, 3 and 4 are tabled in the same form as those already discussed and subsequently rejected in the vote in committee. amendment no 4 points out that a high level of worker protection would lead to a weakening of the competitiveness of the original member states if the new member states did not fully implement osh rules. it is a hypothesis, but we must assume that all 25 member states are obliged to comply with the directives because they are part of the acquis communautaire. in view of the above, i am against these amendments and recommend that they be rejected. in conclusion, i should like to say a few words on the most important points contained in the text on which we shall be voting tomorrow. first, the commission and the member states are encouraged to make every effort to monitor and effectively improve the practical application of the osh directives through concrete strategies. attention must be focused on prevention, a multidisciplinary approach, improved cooperation between the social partners and improved protection and awareness of osh rules. thank you for your support and attention.
for the group. walter once said the secret to boredom is to say everything, so i'll just stick to a few things. the first thing is the absolute amount of funding for science and research. i think there are some instruments that we could use that are being left behind, like european securities. in the united states, a number of key projects are securitized and key european projects could also be supported by this financial base. the second option to boost funding is to tap into the resources of new member states where there is a very strong research potential, currently underfunded, with a lack of funds, and to lean on these countries means to realistically reduce the costs of achieving those research objectives. the third thing is the structure of the three percent. the european commission expects to receive two thirds of this funding from private sources. this will be very difficult to do if you look at the fact that small businesses, which account for 85 percent of all business taxes and 75 percent of all jobs, only 3 percent are investing in research and 40 percent are investing in innovation. without a new write-down policy, without a favourable investment environment, without flexible legislation, without a new credit policy and tax relief in this area, we will not move forward. i think it is also important to have a favourable relationship between the research staff and the technical staff. so far, the situation in the european union is that we are 50 percent behind the united states in the number of researchers per thousand workers. the united states has 50 percent more researchers per 1,000 workers. so we have to build the big technological breakthroughs, the big discoveries, on the strong current of small innovations, which is not happening yet. and finally, the last thing to note is that scientific research also follows certain laws, and in the past, this has been analyzed in the form of kondratyev waves, where the key fractures are actually concentrated in certain clusters. and so we should create the right environment for these clusters to form.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12:00.
the next item is the oral question by mrs mechtild rothe, mr reino paasilinna, mr hannes swoboda, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, and mr dimitrios papadimoulis, on behalf of the group of the european united left - nordic green left, to the commission: forms of alternative energy (b6-0018/2005), the oral question by mrs rebecca harms, on behalf of the green group, by mr claude turmes, on behalf of the group of the european free alliance, by the commission: forms of alternative energy (b6-0157/2005) and the oral question by mrs lena ek, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, by the commission: forms of alternative energy (b6-0158/2005).
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a report on the social situation in the european union, and this report states that the social situation is bad. the report, however, does not identify the real causes of the failure. the real causes of the decline in economic growth and employment are restrictions on freedom of enterprise, rising labor costs, increasing regulation, bureaucracy, increasing redistribution and state influence. the root of the problem is the separation of personal initiative and responsibility and effort from social and economic reward. redistribution breaks the link between success and wealth. the more we redistribute to those who are failing through no fault of their own, the more failures we will have. if we continue to confuse equal opportunity with equality and mediocrity, the more mediocrity we'll have. the right and only real way to improve the social situation is economic growth. only a wealthy society can spend more on social programs. we need to cut taxes, reduce regulations and protect the freedom of enterprise. the rights of employees must be balanced with the rights of employers, education must be linked to success. the rights of the various groups of citizens must not overshadow the rights of all, the rights of all, the support of some must not become a restriction on others. i did not find any of the solutions or suggestions in the report, quite the contrary. the report as proposed does not benefit the european parliament, the european union, its member states and their citizens. and so, ladies and gentlemen, i call on you to vote against the draft report. thank you, sir. (applause) thank you very much.
ladies and gentlemen, a very frequent topic in the new member states is the reform of the pension system. in most of them, the main pillar is still the single, often ongoing, pay as you go system. i am convinced that this system, after the necessary adjustments, the extension of the retirement age and the increase in benefits, is the only one capable of guaranteeing a decent pension to future pensioners. at the same time, it is possible to respect the relevant international labour organisation conventions, which most of the new countries have ratified. conservative parties in most of these countries are considering reducing state-guaranteed pensions below the limits guaranteed by the conventions and building an additional pillar based on compulsory insurance. in my view, such a solution is risky and does not guarantee a sufficient income in old age, because the legislation necessary to ensure this pillar is very weak. in addition, the administrative costs of private institutions are several times higher than those of state-controlled institutions. if the employee is to pay compulsory private insurance contributions in addition to the state pension contributions, then i see a better solution as increasing the contribution to the pillar one insurance.
mr president of the european commission, in revising the lisbon strategy you are putting not only this parliament but also the heads of the 25 member states in a fundamental error. you say, and i quote: 'the european union must avoid growth with a negative impact on employment, which is a shadow of the performance of the us economy', end of quote. i do not know whether this false statement was suggested to you by the anti-american, communist or perhaps trade unionists, but i would like to point out that according to the european statistical office, the us economy is growing faster than the european one and unemployment in the us is not only significantly lower, but is falling almost twice as fast as in the european union. please do not use incorrect economic figures and do not give in to the pressure of those socialists who do not want to admit that the only way to prosperity is maximum freedom of enterprise and minimum state direction. face the truth and take action. only then will you be able to fulfil the promise you made when you took office last summer, namely that europe must first earn its own way to the welfare state. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of february, the commission presented a revised version of the lisbon strategy, which was endorsed by the member states a month later. despite all the rhetoric, it must be admitted that the objectives of the lisbon strategy are not being met. the revised lisbon strategy has reduced the number of objectives and is also attempting to classify them. the new lisbon strategy clearly prioritises economic growth and increased competitiveness. this is a positive thing in itself, but unfortunately it does not solve the internal contradiction of the whole project, because the european union is in trouble because of the absolutely devastating over-regulation of all economic activities. the result of this over-regulation is low and in some states even zero gdp growth and high unemployment. europe's main problem is the excessive tax and regulatory burden on the private sector and investors. liberalisation, as defined in the four freedoms programme, has always been the foundation of the community and care must therefore be taken to ensure that the legislation which is being drawn up is in the interests of genuine liberalisation and freedom and not excessive regulation. moreover, the lisbon strategy omits some of the obvious problems that have arisen as a result of the eu's enlargement with ten new member states. this is mainly discrimination against workers from these countries in the labour markets of the 12 old member states. this measure, which is totally contrary to european principles and the four freedoms programme, seriously threatens the economic performance of the european union as a whole. similarly, the lisbon strategy does not give a concrete idea of the eu's largest spending programme, the common agricultural policy. there are two standards in the european union. the first class for the old member states whose farmers receive full payment and the second class for the new member states whose farmers will receive full payment only in 2013. the overall amount of funding for this policy is absurdly high. europe needs less regulation, less subsidies and more freedom for the free movement of labour, services, firms, investment and capital. thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the detention of medical professionals in libya.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 5.05 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a great example of a great community. on this day 27 years ago, when i was preparing to return from orbit after more than a week's space science and research mission on the salut 6 space station, i never dreamed that i would be able to speak in front of a similar assembly and, moreover, participate actively in the future direction of science and research in europe. i would now like to commend the efforts of mrs locatelli in particular, who has done a great deal of good work on her report, and i shall therefore vote in favour of this document tomorrow. the project does not question the importance of space science and the role of space science and research for the future of europe, or more precisely for its inhabitants. i am convinced that projects such as galileo or gms also need to be supported, because i know from personal experience that they bring with them the opportunity for a number of other related fields and the hope of hundreds, perhaps thousands of new jobs. so, for example, in energy, the iter program, but my colleague talked about that. i'll allow a truce to conclude. we may be on the verge of making the same decision that the kings of spain once made when they were deciding whether or not to support christopher columbus's project, which from today's perspective was a scientific experiment to prove that the earth was round. not only did it change the map of the world, but it also influenced all subsequent developments of the world up to the present day. thank you, sir.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. reform of the sugar sector and of the whole agricultural policy is both a necessity and a challenge for the european union. the current situation with high sugar prices is hurting us europeans as consumers, but also the poorest developing countries. but the previous reform proposal and the allocation of quotas were an example of how not to proceed. this proposal discriminated against newly acceding countries, which had already been subject to quotas imposed during the accession process and had to adapt to them. i can illustrate this by the example of the czech republic, which during the 1990s reduced its sugar production from over a million tonnes a year to 435 thousand tonnes. at the same time, production capacities have been concentrated, resulting in efficient and competitive production. but no such process has taken place in the traditional 15 countries. this fact must be taken into account in the new reform proposal. if quotas are to be reduced, it is the traditional member countries' turn. we cannot accept a situation where, for example, the czech republic has been offered a quota so low that it is not even sufficient to produce sugar for domestic consumption, not because we are unable to produce it efficiently, but simply so that other european producers can import sugar to us and so resolve the wto pressure to our detriment. such a solution is not only uneconomic but also contrary to the basic principles of european integration. i hope that the reformers will take this fact into account and propose a solution that is not discriminatory. thank you for your attention.
ladies and gentlemen, it is said that nothing is older than yesterday's newspaper and we could have one newspaper in parliament for practically a whole year. that is how long it will be since the new composition of the european parliament was elected and we will continue to tell visitors, who by the way come to the buildings here in strasbourg and also in brussels, about 200 000 a year, that the president of the parliament is mr pat cox. this figure, as well as the old composition of parliament's highest bodies and the breakdown of political groups, is offered by brochures that no longer reflect the current situation. so i ask myself, how long will it take for us to be so late that we want the public in europe to not only respect our decisions but also to follow them? i consider it a common shame to distribute such outdated material to tens of thousands of people.
as a citizen of a new member state which has already had the chance to become involved in this community, i want to support the future accession of bulgaria and romania as proposed by our rapporteurs today. i think both bulgaria and romania should have the same chance as we do, if their citizens decide to take it. a chance to show, of course, that they have something to contribute to the union. the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the integration of the new member states, which is to be implemented by the end of the year. being at the gates of the union is a great motivation, and the growing activity of bulgaria and romania only confirms this. moreover, it cannot be forgotten that bulgaria and romania are part of the balkans. i think there's a lot more hope for peace in this region with both countries in the union than without them.
it will soon be a year since the historic enlargement of ten new countries. if we look at the results of enlargement, we see that these results are largely positive, both for the so-called old countries and, of course, for the countries that joined the european union a year ago. i am convinced that the enlargement to include romania and bulgaria will be just as successful. the very prospect of accession has been a strong impetus for both romania and bulgaria to reform the political system, to carry out a number of reforms both in the area of human and civil rights, the political system and in strengthening the economic system. of course, much remains to be done. our reporters have described it in their reports clearly, unambiguously and very objectively. i believe that both romania and bulgaria will be as successful in the coming months as they have been so far and that they will be able to join the european union in 2007. i am aware that there are also some disputes about the competences of the european institutions. but we should not lose sight of the big goal, the big goal is to further expand the zone of democracy, freedom, stability and prosperity. the extension of this zone to south-eastern europe, so that not only hungary, not only the czech republic, but also in the future romania and bulgaria could be a clear positive example for countries such as serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on the state of regional integration in the eastern balkans.
at the end of this debate i received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 103 of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report of the council and the european parliament on the main aspects and priorities of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), including their financial implications for the general budget of the european communities for 2003 [8412/2004 - 2004/2172(ini) ] (a6-0062/2005) and the report by helmut kuhne, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european security strategy [2004/2167(ini) ] (a6-0072/2005).
as one of the major international actors, the european union has a global responsibility. in this context, i would like to stress the precondition for the success of european foreign policy in partnership with the united states. the united states is the closest to europe of the global players, despite the differences. we're not only bound by common values. the nature of the partnership stems from shared interests in world stability, the strengthening of the rule of law and democracy, functioning global markets and the availability of the world's raw materials. the north atlantic alliance remains today an important guarantor of the security of europe and america. but the challenges we face today are far from security-only. i would therefore like to call on the commission and the council to come up with a programme of strategic partnership between the european union and the united states that would institutionalize dialogue on a wide range of issues with global impact. the partnership's agenda ranges from the functioning of financial services to world agriculture, the fight against aids, water availability, global climate change, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the stabilisation of the international order. one vision of this partnership should be to create a euro-american free trade area that has the potential to become a source of dynamism for the world economy. president bush's visit in february showed that americans see the need for a strong partner on the other side of the atlantic. i therefore believe that the european union should seize this opportunity and consolidate the partnership which can become the key to world order and stability.
(pse) ladies and gentlemen, with the end of the cold war, new security threats have emerged. there's international terrorism, there's the spread of weapons of mass destruction, there's all kinds of regional conflicts, there's organized crime, and there are other risks. it turns out that no nation can solve these security threats alone, not even a large nation. for this reason, there is a need to develop and further strengthen a common european foreign, security and defence policy. it is not just us, the majority of members, or the council or the commission, who think so, but above all the european public, as has already been said here. it also shows that all these threats cannot be solved by military means alone. it requires a combination of military and, of course, civilian resources. both reports today, both newsmen, give a clear, concrete answer to that. the success and further development of the common foreign and security policy requires two conditions. it is the ratification of the european constitution and it is also the allocation of the relevant funds. you can't have more european security for less money.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. discrimination against workers from new countries, as well as companies, is a well-known fact. the whole thing starts with the fact that companies from the 15 countries and other developed countries behave in the central european countries as if they knew nothing about the existence of labour laws. working conditions in some czech supermarkets, for example in the case of cashiers, are notorious for medieval working conditions with regular dismissals for a probationary period of three months and other irregularities, in particular the prohibition of trade unionism, which is not officially confirmed anywhere. typically colonial are also the manners of the trade chains towards their suppliers. long deadlines, advertising fees, shelf fees, extremely low prices, all of these have been criticized many times. the countries of central and eastern europe are characterised by a low proportion of goods from local suppliers, the collection of financial collateral before the start of deliveries and the abovementioned irregularities, including the collection of deliveries of goods at any time of the day, including seven days a week working hours. so there is a lot to be dealt with when employees are working in the new member states, but when new employees from the new member states come in, despite the international agreements in the old countries, they have a big problem with the recognition of qualifications. czech and slovak nurses generally work in the old member states as trained nurses, not according to their qualifications. that's how they're paid. similarly, our skilled craftsmen generally do not have recognized state examinations, and their classification is by pay, not by actual work, and is often auxiliary. this is particularly true of the construction trades. the recognition of university qualifications is a major problem and the current contractual base is very inadequate. in the czech republic, there are three laws that are far from perfect. it's high time to change that. i therefore ask the european commission and you, mr verheugen, to propose the appropriate legislative measure. thank you for your attention.
for the group gue/ngl. bangladesh is a state that emerged from the war of independence in 1971. the enormous population density, the natural disasters and the poverty, these are the realities in which the predominantly muslim state is facing enormous problems. the resolution gives the impression that there is very little positive, but there are achievements. for example, the earth produces enough food to feed its inhabitants. it is a great pity that the resolution, which points to a slight improvement in a number of areas and the need to continue the positive trends, could not be submitted in advance to the representatives of both the government and the opposition parties. that is not a good report for the european parliament. it is good that we are trying to promote democratic development in the country, but it is a pity that we have not succeeded in including the positive elements of development in the joint motion for a resolution. despite disagreement with some unverified formulations, we support the resolution and hope for further democratic developments, especially in the run-up to the next parliamentary elections.
the reporter. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me now present the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european commission's report entitled 'modernising social protection and developing quality health and long-term care'. the report was presented by the commission to the european council, the european parliament, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee last spring. the commission's report identifies the main challenges facing all health systems in all member states. the commission proposes common objectives to the member states for the development and, where appropriate, reform of these systems. the definition of common challenges, the identification of common objectives, the exchange of views and experiences and the joint evaluation of the success of the development of care systems in individual member states are the essence of the open coordination process. the commission report was discussed in the committee on employment and social affairs and in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission's report aroused great interest in both committees. the more than 100 amendments tabled by members to my motion for a resolution are an expression of this interest. the committee on employment and social affairs discussed the motion for a resolution at the end of march this year and voted on all the amendments submitted. the result is the proposal before us today. as far as i know, only five amendments have been tabled to it. in all cases these are motions which have already been tabled and rejected in the committee on employment and social affairs. allow me now to make a brief comment on the matter under consideration. health and long-term care is a key concern for all eu member states. in each of the member states, there is a lively debate on the health system and its future. i am not afraid to say that in every member state health reform is under way or is being prepared. health care affects every citizen and, of course, every politician. it is in the interest of citizens and therefore the task of policy-makers to ensure high-quality healthcare is available to everyone who needs it, regardless of age, status or wealth. at the same time, it is in the interest of citizens, and therefore the task of politicians, to maintain the stability of the healthcare system, not only financial stability but also, for example, very important staff stability. the commission's report identifies three main challenges. the ageing of the population, new technologies in prevention as well as in diagnostic and therapeutic care and increasing expectations of citizens as a result of better general awareness of healthcare options. these main challenges are then joined by the ageing of healthcare workers, their departure abroad in some countries, the increasing migration of citizens of member states within the european union and the increasing immigration of citizens of third countries to the european union. the commission proposes as main objectives high quality of care, wide availability and long-term financial sustainability without the need to draw on other public funds. the committee's discussion of the commission's report confirmed agreement on these challenges and on the common objectives. in addition, the emphasis is on subsidiarity, which in the area of health and long-term care means that national governments have full responsibility for the development and reform of health care in the member states. we also emphasise prevention as the most effective way to improve the health of citizens. the european parliament stresses the role of the patient as a client of health services, the right of the patient to make his own decisions about his health and to receive care. this includes the right to full and comprehensible information about health and illness, health care, its outcomes, options, alternatives and risks. the great challenge and hope is new technologies in communication. information is highly valued in healthcare and its mutual sharing between individual patients and the doctors who care for them leads to higher quality and better use of public resources. we emphasize the key role of the patient, his right to make decisions and his responsibility for those decisions. information is essential for decision-making, as is cooperation with a doctor, although the latter always has an information advantage. but that doesn't give him the right to make decisions for the patient. ladies and gentlemen, i am confident that my report and the motion for a resolution which i have tabled will find great support in the european parliament.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr cabrnoch, on his report. i believe that the motion for a resolution he is tabled reflects the main principles shared by our group of the european united left and the nordic greens. however, i have tabled some amendments which underline the priorities that our group has been stressing. firstly, i am very pleased that the rapporteur's proposals emphasise the need to provide healthcare to the citizens of the european union on the basis of the principle of solidarity. after all, the right to health is considered in all the countries of the european union as one of the fundamental rights, implemented precisely on the principle of solidarity. that is what my amendment is aiming at. secondly, we certainly have a duty to ensure not only the right to free movement of labour, but also the right to provide workers with adequate and affordable quality health care in all the countries of the european union. my other proposals therefore aimed to strengthen the training of health workers so that there is a comparable level in this field in all member states. i am deeply convinced that this education must be supported by the european union funds which are earmarked for education and cannot be left to the member states alone. thirdly, i welcome the rapporteur's formulation on the preventive focus of health services and i believe that the commission should encourage member states to strengthen all preventive measures, not only in the provision of health care but also in matters relating to working time and occupational health protection. we should not only focus on the flexibility and competitiveness of the workforce, but also on the protection of workers' health. fourthly, i agree with the rapporteur that medical science offers new diagnostic and therapeutic possibilities, but the health sector is also confronted with the need for financial balance. i believe that healthcare cannot be seen from the point of view of an accountant, and for that reason i would not like and we cannot support this principle to prevail in the conception of health systems reform.
let me begin by praising the rapporteur's work, especially the correct way in which the report and the motion for a resolution were discussed in the committee on employment and social affairs. as a new member of the european parliament and representative of a new member state, i am concerned about the existence of the agency in bilbao as such. i am not entirely convinced of the real justified need for a separate european union institution to focus on such a narrow area, however important, as occupational health and safety is. i will continue to gather arguments in my work for the existence of this institution or, where appropriate, for addressing the issue of health and safety at work in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity exclusively at national level. in view of the current situation, the proposal presented, as well as the rapporteur's report, contributes to the transparency and clarity of the work of the agency and i therefore support the proposal prepared by the rapporteur. thank you, sir.
that concludes the debate. the vote will be tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the report (a6-0065/2005) by henrik lax, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as regards the reciprocity mechanism (com(2004)0437 - c6-0097/2004 - 2004/0141(cns)).
that concludes the debate. the vote will be tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item on the agenda is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0084/2005) by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the convention implementing the schengen agreement of 14 june 1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at common borders, as regards access to the schengen information system by the services of the member states responsible for issuing vehicle registration certificates (14238/1/2004 - c6-0007/2005 - 2003/0198 ((cod)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
drafting committee on women's rights and gender equality. ladies and gentlemen, political decisions are the result of compromises that should satisfy both sides. let us not pretend that the proposal for a directive on the adjustment of certain aspects of the organisation of working time also implies that an advantage for employers is a disadvantage for employees and vice versa. the vote in the committee on women's rights and gender equality, of which i am a member, shows that there is a will across the political spectrum to tackle inequalities in the status of workers and employers and also to gradually eliminate inequalities between men and women in the labour market. but modern humanism in workplace legal relations didn't just fall from the sky. it is the result of a long struggle for the recognition of human rights, including the right to decent working conditions, as laid down in the lisbon strategy and as reflected in mr cercas' report. but a few loopholes and seemingly innocent compromises can set us back hundreds of years. the altruism of employers towards their employees is unfortunately not yet one of the pillars of our civilization. we have voted in committee to accept the principle of reconciling work and family life and, in order not to turn it into an empty proclamation to ease our conscience, we insist on the following theses. first, the maximum weekly working time, including overtime, not exceeding 48 hours. only collective bargaining can decide on an exemption, which excludes individual opt-outs. second, to define work-related standby time at the workplace as working time including so-called standby inactivity. this is in line with the supreme court's rulings. and third, to keep the four-month reference period for calculating the average weekly working time. in addition to these priorities, i would like to draw attention to one more. the demand for equal opportunities for women and men does not only mean equal pay conditions for men and women and equal access to careers and education. it is also a way of giving men equal opportunities to participate fully in family life.
madam president, commissioner, one of the first conventions of the international labour organization, founded in 1919, was the one that established the eight-hour working day and the forty-eight-hour working week. thus, the convention recognized the need to protect the health and safety of workers, to allow them to raise a family, since the reproduction of the work force was involved, and to allow them time to rest. the commission's hypocritically reasoned proposal undermines all that. the shameful opt-out institute is turning everything the trade union movement has achieved over the centuries on its head. if it is to disappear and if it is part of the content of the cercas report, then we must vote for it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 may.
the next item is the report (a6-0094/2005) by mrs pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the appointment of a member of the european central bank.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon on wednesday.
the next item on the agenda is the commission communication - action plan on the hague programme freedom, security and justice in the european union.
the debate is closed.
mr maat, that is not a point of order.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his opening statement and i would like to welcome the political changes in kyrgyzstan as an opportunity for us to clarify our foreign policy objectives. at first glance, everything seems simple. in kyrgyzstan, there was a rigged election, and the people overthrew the president. it's a domino effect, after the fall of the government in tbilisi and kiev, it's bishkek's turn. moscow backed an undemocratic president and lost. but it turns out that the revolution in kyrgyzstan also has a significant social context. it's very much a rebellion against the government of the oligarchy that was formed in the process of privatization. this is a common phenomenon in the post-socialist space. there have always been groups that were or are closest to the political centre, whether on the basis of past relationships, national affinity or the party legitimacy of the current rulers. in the process of privatisation, members of these groups have become the owners of previously unimaginable assets, and this gives them a specific opportunity and appetite to enter politics in the face of dramatic social polarization. but that doesn't capture the whole character of the kyrgyzstan insurgency. it was held in the country with the most liberal regime in central asia. from this, the oligarchy can conclude that the less freedom in society, the better chance of maintaining their position. at the same time, the situation in kyrgyzstan differs from, for example, ukraine in that the kyrgyz uprising is not linked to russophobia. in this context, i would like to call again for us to present the european union in our politics as an institution that defends the ideals of the rule of law and the social state, that is to say, in kyrgyzstan, but also elsewhere, to support those forces that want to consolidate the constitutional order and social justice.
as this debate has already indicated, two trends can be observed in kyrgyzstan and in the whole central asian region. the first trend is the deteriorating political situation, the deteriorating human and civil rights situation. the second trend is the increasing strategic importance of the whole region, not least in relation to energy resources in countries such as turkmenistan, uzbekistan or kazakhstan. in my one-minute contribution, i would like to focus briefly on two areas where the european union should help. that one area is undoubtedly the promotion of human rights, civil rights, the promotion of the electoral process in kyrgyzstan, the promotion of civil society. the second area, however, which has not been discussed much here, is the promotion of regional cooperation, support for the countries of central asia in the fight against terrorism, in the fight against drug smuggling, support for energy cooperation, support for the use of water resources, for example. uzbekistan, kazakhstan has energy resources, kyrgyzstan has water resources. so i would like to hear from the european commission how the european commission, the european union can support this process of regional cooperation.
at the end of our debate, i received six motions for resolutions see the list of documents submitted under rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow. (the meeting, which was adjourned at 11:10, resumed at 11:30.)
ladies and gentlemen, the history of the peoples of the european union is by no means a walk in the park. it's a history of mutual fighting, betrayal and atrocities. it was the europeans who invented the domination of the aryan race, the final solution for the other races and the gas chambers. and other europeans, at first, just watched. unfortunately, this period is not definitively buried. in this parliament too, there are people who, 60 years after the end of the second world war, do not vote in favour of condemning the holocaust, and there are people who persist in equating the suffering of the victims of the second world war with that of the perpetrators, distorting the past and confusing the causes and consequences of the most horrific conflict in history. many of the top representatives of the member states and of the european institutions, in their speeches on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the end of the war, are blinded by the idea that the golden age of prosperity and peace is directly linked to the history of the european union. but in the name of the future, we should realize that this is definitely not the case, that peace in europe can be equally attributed to the existence of american troops on european soil, and prosperity can be justified by economic growth in asia, in the united states, and by growing world trade. and as for freedom, revolutions in many european countries, including my own, have taken place without the guidance of brussels. i fear that the gains of democracy and prosperity are now in jeopardy. europe's potential as a global player in the world is undermined by an incomprehensible and unfair european constitution that gives some countries unilateral advantages at the expense of others. the future of europe is also threatened by the disconnection of politicians from real life. citizens in the member states are increasingly unable to understand the language of the european institutions and their representatives. how can a project fail if the citizens don't understand its leaders? will his incomprehensibility make him an easy victim of the most blatant populism? i am convinced that the project of a common europe will not be won by any media campaigns, but only by concrete and understandable actions linked to real problems. the inability of european leaders to kick-start growth and the cowardly economic euro-nationalism are the wrong response to the reality of the global economy. i represent the citizens of a country that has had a difficult experience with the iron curtain. it went down 15 years ago. but now we are seeing attempts to build new curtains around europe, against the united states, against chinese textiles, against cheap labour and against many asylum seekers. closing the world down will not solve the problems facing europe. the current governance mechanism of the european union is proving unsustainable for europe's competitiveness in the face of a lack of interest from citizens and economic stagnation. i believe that the leaders of the european union should have the courage to admit to themselves and to their citizens that the resuscitated lisbon strategy, like the unjust european constitution, is a dead end. they will not bring more justice, freedom and prosperity. only openness, less interference in economic life, tax reductions, the relaxation of the functioning of the national states and effective coordination at the level of the european union, where necessary, is the correct response to the current world economic and political reality.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's 2006 budget should reflect a number of the key priorities set out in the dombrovskis report. as a member elected in a new member state, i would like to draw attention to the following practical problems, which are directly related to the still unfinished consolidation of the european parliament's activities after last year's enlargement. first of all, one year after the enlargement of the union, the european parliament still does not guarantee equal treatment of the official languages, and interpretation is not available in all the languages of the members present at many meetings of committees and delegations. there are also major gaps in the slow delivery of documents to members in their official languages. this is a direct consequence of the slow recruitment of staff from the new member states to the european parliament's apparatus and is not limited to interpretation and translation. the number of staff from the new member states in the european parliament is still very low and far from filling the jobs created, for which the budget allocates funds. the delay in this area is really great and totally unjustified. according to the dombrovskis report, only 78% of the jobs already created are likely to be filled by the end of this year, and i believe that this situation must be changed quickly to ensure that citizens from the new member states are equally represented in the european parliament's apparatus. nor can we tolerate the fact that the european parliament is still not displayed in all the languages of the european union in the european parliament building. i was informed of this by the first group of visitors from the czech republic last november and despite my urgent appeal to the quaestor, the situation has not changed. on the contrary, the system of services for visitors to the european parliament is relatively well functioning. i have already invited two groups of citizens to strasbourg and their reactions give me the impression that this activity is of great importance. however, communication with citizens can be further improved. i regret to say that there are no promotional materials available to visitors in the czech language, nor in the other languages of the new member states, and copies of the european constitution are not available to visitors from the new member states. this situation, i think, needs to change soon.
ladies and gentlemen, i find the union's approach to china's style of trade to be reckless. i reject the argument that the textile industry could have spent ten years preparing for today's liberalization. only after china's accession to the wto could the union verify the impact of the transitional liberalisation as early as 2002. prices fell to 40%, and china quickly took over 75% of the market. this was perhaps a clear signal for a change in the union's trade policy, but it did not happen, even though the states entrusted trade policy to the exclusive competence of the union. china today is ruthlessly waging war on the poorest countries in asia and africa, where textiles have been the key to their survival. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. these are not only the result of china's reputed industriousness, but also of its minimal environmental and social standards, including child labor. then there's the government subsidies and the controlled currency devaluation. we're opening up our markets, but china won't let textiles into theirs. the automobile companies, for example, can testify to the violation of cooperative ownership. so much for the wto violation argument. the union should and must use its economic and political tools, if it still has them, to force china to abide by our fair competition rules. the sustainability of development on the planet, the values for which we regulate the european market, knowing that we are raising the cost of european production and thus reducing our competitiveness, and the citizens' confidence in integration mean that the union must be united and become a strong partner for the wto, on a par with japan, china and the usa. it's not a challenge, it's an obligation. both for the european commission and the council, but also for this parliament. i welcome the commission's recognition of the need to examine the impact of liberalisation, but the introduction of seven per cent quotas for one year is not enough. i call for a serious change in the strategy of foreign policy towards china to be consistent with the long-term objectives of the internal market of the european union. i wish you success in this endeavor.
for the gue/ngl group commissioner, i welcome the outcome of the eu-russia meeting on behalf of our entire gue/ngl group. russia has always been, in history, since the middle ages, a country that fascinates all of europe. on one side, they saw the successor of byzantium, the savior of europe from the invaders from the east, on the other side, asia, all in barbaric paintings. on the one hand, tradition, the golden onions of the towers, and education were celebrated, while on the other hand, the staggering wealth of rulers and the extreme poverty of millions. these two views are still present in the draft resolution. on the one hand, a huge and essential supplier of raw materials for the european union, a large market, a potential ally of european culture and tradition, on the other, the fear of a vast area of eastern europe, a strong army with modern equipment, which is already involved in a number of peace actions, for example in the balkans, with european union troops. the same lapses as in the part of the resolution calling for common standards of conduct should be reserved for the military of another partner, according to reports from iraq. or have they already taken appropriate action in this regard? the above-mentioned contradictions are clearly apparent in a number of proposals. i urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to remember who saved europe from the plague sixty years ago, i urge you not to succumb to russophobic sentiments in all your criticism of the totalitarian state and to vote in a spirit of constructive cooperation over suspicion and high-handedness. millions of dead liberators cannot be ignored. we should always distinguish clearly between a reliable ally who played a major role in the liberation of most of europe and who fulfilled his obligations to other allies in asia 60 years ago and the aggressor, and the relevant parts of our resolutions and our actions should be drawn accordingly. if in this forum, ardent representatives of democracy from states where hundreds of thousands of citizens are stateless, want to talk about the problems of national minorities in russia, i don't know whether it is a mockery of us all or the shamelessness of those who have only very distorted ideas about democracy. we need russia as the european union's closest ally. we need russia as a friend in solving the mounting problems of today's world. friends are asked, not commanded. before you vote on the resolution tomorrow, you should realize that and try to make your positions conform to it.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– madam president, as shadow rapporteur for the report on the commission proposal amending the council decision on the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, and in particular for smes, i would like to make several comments on the importance of the extension of this programme. although we are extending the programme primarily supporting entrepreneurs, and especially smes, by just one year until the end of 2006, this is a significant tool which should, in the context of the lisbon objectives, contribute to and enhance the growth and competitiveness of enterprises in a knowledge-based and internationalised economy. the importance of this decision lies above all in creating a bridge between the current programme and the framework programme for competitiveness and innovation for the years 2007-2013. this extension will give businesses easier access to community support services, programmes and networks, and help to improve the coordination of these facilities. focusing on the new competitiveness and innovation programme, we are to look into the evaluation of the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship prepared for the commission in november last year, in order to tailor the new programme more effectively and promote entrepreneurship in the eu. last but not least, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs thomsen, for the excellent job she has done, not least in smoothly securing this extension and negotiating with the council an increase in funding from eur 81.5 million to eur 88.5 million for 2006.
the agenda includes a joint debate: report (a6-0150/2005) by robert goebbels, on behalf of the economic and monetary committee, on the commission recommendation on the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the member states and the community in the framework of the integrated guidelines for economic growth and employment; report (a6-0149/2005) by ana mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the broad guidelines of the employment policies of the member states; and report (a6-0142/2005) by ria oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the social policy programme 2006-2010.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's economy is in some respects further away from its goal of becoming the most competitive economy in the world than it was in 2000. the persistently low performance of the union economy is due to the still relatively low labour force participation. these are mainly young people and older workers. another problem is the low level of productivity growth, which is caused by the slowdown in the pace of technological progress and innovation, as well as the slow adoption of information and communication technologies. in this context, the european union and its member states should put emphasis on investing in knowledge. to increase our growth potential and prepare for the future, we need to realise the idea of a knowledge society based on human capital, education, research and innovation. europe needs to invest more in human capital and lifelong learning for the benefit of individuals, businesses and societies. it is important to remember that knowledge-based economies require different skills than traditional industries, they require skills that need to be constantly adapted to technological development and innovation. employees who want to keep their jobs and want to develop professionally must keep updating their knowledge, skills and knowledge. education and training systems must therefore respond to the needs of the economy. knowledge acquired through investment in research and development, innovation and education is a major force for long-term growth. the draft budget for 2007-13 presented by the luxembourg presidency dramatically reduces spending in the areas of science, research, education and transport. this reduction is more than 40% of the original proposal and amounts to eur 50 billion in concrete terms. i believe that we cannot set ambitious targets which then fail to ensure the necessary level of funding.
ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing today is about budgetary resources, but also, and i should like to stress this, about political challenges. and that's the challenge i want to address. as you know, the financial perspective for the coming years is also based on whether or not the european constitution is approved. citizens of two states have recently rejected the constitution, and other states are delaying ratification. and that is the message we should be hearing today and not planning these days for many years ahead. citizens have made it clear that their vision of the european union is very different from what some politicians dreamed of at the negotiating table. in terms of financial calculations, the reimer böge report is a sensible compromise, making it clear that more europe cannot be achieved with less money. but above all, we must respect the will of the people. today, it is not about what we think is reasonable in this chamber, but about what is truly democratic. i believe that the rejection of the constitution cannot be arrogantly overlooked. that is why i consider the biggest political challenge to be the courage of politicians to humbly come before the citizens and openly admit that there is simply no general consensus on political integration in the european union these days. i therefore ask myself whether we have the right to vote on a report which sets out the framework for political and economic life in the european union for a few years to come, and i answer that we have absolutely no right to do so.
after the fall of the iron curtain, we in the czech republic waited a long and disproportionate 14 years before our citizens could decide in a referendum whether they wanted to join the european union. they said yes. at that time, we had already signed humiliating accession conditions that gave our highly efficient agriculture only a quarter of the subsidies compared to competitors from the old countries of the european union. and also conditions that are contrary to the fundamental principles on which the european union was founded, protectionist provisions that our citizens cannot be freely employed in many of the old union countries. we also find that services cannot be operated directly in the territory of the old union countries, and we have recently learned how difficult this will be for entrepreneurs who logically want to relocate their companies - still within the eu - but to our area with a highly skilled and diligent workforce that does not work only 35 hours a week but 40 hours and has no excessive wage requirements. yes, in just one year, we sobered up from many naive notions. what we do not want to sober up are at least the basic promises that led our citizens to say yes in the accession referendum. these were promises of funds that, as in the past in portugal, ireland and elsewhere, would contribute to the development of the czech republic through funds. we therefore logically support the commission's proposal to maintain 1.24%. just so we're clear, we're not against cuts. unfortunately, we know that the cuts will only be at the expense of the funds. the administrative union will not be cheaper, but the dream of a european foreign ministry, the dream of embassies, over 3 000 opaque regulatory and advisory bodies and all-pervasive regulations in 20 languages will make the union's operations more expensive. we all know where the huge money to save is. the common agricultural policy, which is devouring more than 40% of the budget, but which is, as we know, a politically untouchable item, and which, absurdly, this parliament cannot even discuss. all that's left is the funds. in the course of the year, we have already learned the magic word most often used in the union, 'sustainable'. and we're also already meaninglessly sticking it to all concepts. if we are to create a truly sustainable budget that does not lead to further disappointment... (speaker breaking off)
the agenda includes the report by mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the protection of minorities and anti-discrimination policies in an enlarged europe (2005/2008 (ini)) (a6-0140/2005).
the debate is now closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12:00.
the next item is the report by patrick gaubert, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the links between legal and illegal immigration and the integration of immigrants (2004/2137 (ini)) (a6-0136/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12:00.
the next item on the agenda is the recommendation for second reading by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on controls on cash entering or leaving the community (14843/1/2004 - c6-0038/2005 - 2002/0132 ((cod)) (rapporteur: vincent peillon) (a6-0167/2005).
the debate is now closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12:00. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr dariusz rosati, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 92/12/eec on the general arrangements for products subject to excise duty and on the holding, movement and monitoring of such products (com (2004) 0227 - c6-0039/2004 - 2004/0072 (cns)) (a6-0138/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at noon.
the next item is the report by john bowis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on patient mobility and healthcare developments in the european union (2004/2148(ini)) (a6-0129/2005).
thank you, commissioner. that concludes the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at noon.
mr president, the european council meeting next week will be one of the most important in the history of european integration. we all know that the failure of the constitution would not leave europe as it was before the ratification process began. if europe is not to plunge into a long-term crisis, the council must take a strong lead. today, there are two possible solutions. if the french president and the dutch prime minister say they will re-submit the document for approval, then let's continue the integration. but if they are not able to do so, let us create a political basis by separating the first and second parts of the constitution from the individual common policies. the convention, of which i was a member, considered that an effective reform of the union required not only the organisation of relations between the institutions and the incorporation of a charter of rights, but also the consolidation of existing treaties, including policies. but neither the convention nor the subsequent intergovernmental conferences had the political will to separate the two problems. here we are, mr. chairman, with the causes of the french and dutch rejection of the constitution. discussions in these countries have shown dissatisfaction with many of the current policies in europe, not with the institutional solution provided by the constitution. but the citizens were forced to decide on both issues at once. the european council should therefore decide on the separation of the constitutional framework contained in chapters 1 and 2 and on its submission for ratification separately. the first and second parts of the constitution are a balanced document, on which there was consensus at the convention and the intergovernmental conference. all that matters now is whether the european council finds the will to take bold action. if we fail to do so, the acute crisis associated with the ratification of the constitution threatens to become a chronic crisis of the integration project as such.
ladies and gentlemen, the building of europe, the integration of europe has always been, is and will be a very complex process. a process that often involves taking two steps forward, often one step back. we have taken two steps forward in the past year, just remember the successful unprecedented enlargement of the european union by ten new members. the french and dutch referendum results are, of course, a step backwards. it's a huge disappointment, and it's a disappointment to me, because i come from a new member state. but not in france and the netherlands does not mean the end of the integration process, and i am convinced that it does not have to mean the end of the european constitution. i am convinced and expect the european council to send a clear message, a message that will allow the other member states to express their views on this work, the european constitutional treaty. the score so far is ten countries in favor, two countries against. i think that the poles, the czechs, the luxembourgers and the danes should have the right, should be able to say whether they want a european constitutional treaty or not, and then, on the basis of that and as the constitution provides, the council should decide next year what to do with this document. i'd like to say one more thing about the financial perspective. i believe that on 16 and 17 june a compromise will be reached so that europe can go on, and go on with the financial means that are of course needed to achieve our objectives and our vision.
my dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, terrorism, terrorism, terrorism, democracy, common values, these are the same phrases we hear about the big brother who is watching us across the atlantic, who is watching us from space, who is monitoring us from bases in germany, italy, hungary, turkey, from countries in africa, asia, latin america, from nuclear submarines, from drones and who knows where else. so let's get to work on a resolution on mutually beneficial, balanced and prospective relations. just be careful about sensitive topics! the inhumane and degrading conditions in some prisons in the united states must be kept secret. it is necessary to declare loudly cooperation in the fight against terrorism, bioterrorism, in the effort to uncover the sources of financing of terrorism. what's not in the statement? the sources of modern weapons of terrorist organizations, cooperation in the elimination of nuclear weapons from the middle east, the cessation of support for terrorists in central asia, the caucasus, west and central africa. it is certainly not easy to speak your mind openly and clearly to a stronger partner. turkey, russia, possibly bangladesh, where we are criticized. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the values of european civilization include literacy and universal health care. it's a pity our partner doesn't share the same values. who among you, ladies and gentlemen, will propose these common values for the next resolution? or do you not know that across the great swamp, illiteracy affects millions of people? and the universal insurance has not yet been implemented? so according to public space research, fusion is also a common civilization problem that needs to be addressed together. if we are allies, let us not be afraid to point out these problems and encourage our partner to solve them.
let me make a few remarks, even though i represent the czech republic, which is not a member of the euro area. first of all, i would like to say that the main reason for the french no, which took place recently, was the french people's fear for the fate of their expensive social system. however, france is a member of the euro area and cannot afford to break the rules of the stability and growth pact in the long term, which in my view will lead to an increase in tension between the existing rules and the willingness of french politicians to accommodate large sections of their domestic electorate. secondly, it is not at all certain in the short term with what courage and above all political courage they will reform public finances, i mean in france, and they can only be kept in check by restructuring government revenue and expenditure, that is, by means of unpopular reforms. in the netherlands, the situation is not the same, and that's my third point. the dutch had to give up their strong currency after joining the euro, and they did so under very unfavourable conditions of an undervalued exchange rate. they no doubt remember a strong guilder that would help them solve the problems of diminishing economic growth today. fourth, the problems of overpriced welfare and a sclerotic economy lie with the other key eurozone countries, italy and germany, and they will undoubtedly face tough structural reforms. it is crucial for the stability of the euro, and i think mr karas has presented his analysis quite accurately here, that the basic rules of the stability and growth pact remain unchanged, or that they are such that they apply to all countries at all times and at all times. therefore, euro area countries should first comply with the rules that apply to everyone, and then debate whether to relax them.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the baltic sea region. first of all, thanks to my colleague harry for the good news. let me remind you that the report on social inclusion in the new member states of the european union which he drew up and which we are discussing here today was adopted by a majority of 32 votes to 4 in the committee on employment and social affairs. the outcome of this vote is therefore clear evidence that we all across the political spectrum recognise and acknowledge the urgency of the problems of social exclusion. however, this finding is not unknown to us. we all know that the european heads of state and government reached the same conclusions at their lisbon summit in 2000, when they made the fight against poverty and social exclusion one of the central themes and conditions for the modernisation of the european social model. after some hesitation, the footage was finally confirmed at this spring's eu summit in brussels. looking at the results achieved so far over the past five years, it is clear that the fight against poverty and social exclusion is far from over and will require considerable effort and commitment beyond 2010. in comparing the situation of social exclusion in the ten new countries, the european commission has undertaken a very difficult task. these countries differ not only from each other but also from within their own regions. while there is still room to develop and harmonise common indicators that reflect the real situation in these countries as closely as possible and at the same time allow us to identify examples of new practices, this action by the european commission is undoubtedly a step forward. i would like to take this opportunity to call on their representatives to cooperate as much as possible in the future and to make use of the resources and knowledge of ngos and social partners. i would also like to point out that although the report before us today describes and attempts to compare the situation in the ten new member states, we must not forget that the threat of poverty and social exclusion is not absent from any country in the european union today, even if not to the same extent. it is often argued that the social partners, and in particular trade unions, should be strongly involved in all the steps to help tackle social exclusion, and even considered as replacing the role of the state and local authorities. such beliefs, however, are, at least for the time being, mere illusions. the restructured trade unions in the new member states are in a difficult situation, are under pressure, lack the appropriate structure and lack effective tools. my colleague laura knows that as well as i do, because we both worked in the unions.
for the group gue/ngl. i would like to commend the work of my colleague őry. let me welcome the fact that this is the first such work coming from the new member countries. ladies and gentlemen, in the european union today we are generally faced with a series of crises. the stability pact is for small countries, and the big countries follow different principles. all this has an impact on the new member states, which are still faced with a number of often absurd demands, as my introduction rightly emphasised. social problems are particularly acute in poor areas, regardless of the division between old and new member states. the disabled now make up 10% of the population, but only in some member states can we speak of legislation that would at least partially facilitate their position in everyday life, including work. the problems are faced by ethnic minorities, young people out of school, women and citizens over 50. the big problem is people from socially unmotivated backgrounds, and there are also big problems with refugees. what is the main problem, and the main problem of the european union as a whole? the problem is the system that tries to leave everything to the invisible hands of the market. just three examples to illustrate. privatization of drinking water and sewage has increased the price of a cubic meter of water by more than a thousand times. second example, the huge pressure to ease rents is causing 50-70% of pensioners' income in the new eu countries to go to housing already today. what about tomorrow? housing is scarce, and the mobile workforce often lives in critical conditions, and the situation is critical for the unemployed, young families, the disabled and the retired. third example, disabled people are contributing an increasing percentage of unemployment. in the czech republic, in the northern bohemia, for example, despite the measures taken, we are going from 8% of disabled unemployed 10 years ago to more than 12%. and that's a warning, please. social integration in an environment where public services are being phased out, the high cost of public transport and its increasingly hollow network, the abolition of the nursery network and the reduction of day-care centres, the disappearance or reduction of out-of-school education with often high financial demands on parents, the deterioration of the position of trade unions associated with the effort to abolish the labour code, all these are manifestations of extreme liberal tendencies. do you think, colleagues, that our citizens do not see the extremist liberal wording in the constitutional treaty? do you know anything about the pre-referendum debates in france and the netherlands? you want to hide the shortcomings in the statistics, the pressure on new countries, which forces them to ruthlessly privatize all state property? don't you know that the new states are becoming a proving ground for the original fifteen, testing how much longer people can last? am i right, colleagues, or is the so-called welfare state dead and we're going somewhere else? it is good that we have a draft report on social inclusion here, but the fundamental issues are also thrown between the lines and the direction of the movement including basic social standards is still missing. it's a bold step in the right direction.
in writing. the us and europe as two global democratic systems share the same ‘non-state’ threat: terrorism and weapons proliferation. the need to act together to defend democratic and liberal values creates a new opportunity to renew transatlantic relations. ms rice made clear recently that the us needs and welcomes a strong, unified europe that can speak with one voice. nevertheless, this policy is not yet reflected in the us approach to eu citizens. despite the fact that citizens of the new eu member countries in particular long strived for democracy and liberalism in europe, and offered strong support to the us in its global pressure for democratisation, citizens of the new member states are still perceived as a security threat to us home security. therefore, i urge the commission to start negotiations with the us authorities immediately, and tackle this issue as a matter of high political priority in its relations with the us. i urge the commission to start immediately to negotiate the application of visa waiver programme for all eu citizens. i urge the commission to use that call for strong, unified europe and to ask the us to treat all eu citizens equally.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to comment on the draft report on social inclusion in the new member states of the european union. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and congratulate him on not confusing social inclusion with egalitarianism or corporatism in this report. in creating special conditions for certain groups of the population, we must never forget the necessary condition of equality of all citizens. positive discrimination is as reprehensible as negative discrimination. it is a fact that there are groups of citizens who have more or less differences or difficulties. i fully support solidarity with these groups. i believe that the best way to achieve their social inclusion is to create a level playing field for all of them. administrative exclusion and favouring of individual groups is not the path to social inclusion, but to continued social exclusion. when we take into account the list of all disadvantaged groups mentioned in the report, and correctly mentioned in the report, namely women, single-parent families, people entering the labour market, the elderly, the poor, the sick, the disabled, people who care for others, disadvantaged children, children at risk due to the absence of parental authority, linguistic minorities, refugees, immigrants, roma, other ethnic minorities, the homeless or victims of alcohol and other drug addiction, we arrive, perhaps with a slight exaggeration, at the conclusion that ordinary, disadvantaged citizens are a vulnerable minority in society. i believe we will not have to create programs to support citizens who have failed to be included in any of the vulnerable groups. in this report we are fighting against exclusion, and i believe that although paradoxically in this report we have excluded ten of the twenty-five equal member countries because they joined the european union a few years later, i firmly believe that the european union will deal with this kind of exclusion in the future and that in the next report on social inclusion we will assess the situation in all the countries of the european union. the draft report shall refer to the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe. i am aware that the rapporteur's text dates from a time when it was not yet clear that the text of the constitution was dead. since the people of france and the netherlands have rejected the draft constitution for europe, these references are no longer relevant and should be deleted from the report. i thank the rapporteur for his good work, which is beneficial for the european union and for my country.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. the new member states have undergone a complex economic transformation in the past decade. the effects of this complex process are felt in many areas. the main factors leading to social exclusion in many new states are high unemployment, almost zero labour mobility, problematic social inclusion of new entrants to the labour market, women, the elderly, the sick and disabled, ethnic and linguistic minorities. strong economic and employment growth is essential for the sustainability of the social protection system. i believe that in order to promote such growth, it is necessary to abolish the transitional labour market measures in favour of the new member states. nor do the statistics support the reasons for introducing these measures to protect the internal labour market of some of the european 15 countries. another pro-growth factor is the effective functioning of education and training systems. it is necessary to reduce early exit from education and training and to facilitate the transition between school and work, especially for people who leave school with low qualifications. improve access to education for disadvantaged groups, focus on promoting lifelong learning across the board. a quality education system is able to effectively take account of conditions in a rapidly changing labour market. member states have adopted measures to tackle poverty and social exclusion in the form of seven key policy priorities. together, they should contribute to the increased labour supply by implementing this report. an accessible, quality and sustainable healthcare system will contribute not only to the fight against disease and vulnerability to social exclusion, but also to the preservation of a productive workforce. the implementation of the content of the social inclusion report in the new member states can make a positive contribution to improving the quality of life in the member states of the european union. i would like to join my colleagues in congratulating the rapporteur on his work.
author. the republic of algeria is a very important partner for the countries of the european union. there are vast economic interests here, and not just french. millions of people who came to work in the european union came from here. there have always been several linguistic cultural groups of inhabitants. in addition to this diversity of languages and cultures, there is still, especially after independence, a sharp middle ground between the so-called purely islamist, hardly arabization, and quasi-european approach. it is associated with the use of french as a second official language in public life and in schools. unfortunately, it must be borne in mind that the arabization trend is often associated with the suppression of classical democratic freedoms. the question is what will be the most effective way to support the democratic trend in algeria. before we vote on the report, i ask you, colleagues, to give priority to supporting the democratic tendencies. from the daily life of a citizen of the czech republic, a country whose press is more than 80% owned by two foreign owners from a neighbouring country, i can say that freedom of the press is crucial for the country in some situations. the gue/ngl group naturally supports the motion for a resolution.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, when i hear the name of the caucasian republic, i think of azerbaijan's vast oil wealth, its harsh presidential regime compared to the democracies in the rest of europe, and its problems with its neighbours, especially the conflict in nagorno-karabakh. the enormous wealth of the country is in direct contradiction to the growing poverty of the population, and those who are today like the refugees mentioned by one of my colleagues here, to this day have no housing, unlike, for example, armenia. the social tension is the logical consequence of the undemocratic governmental actions criticized by the resolution discussed here. the key problem criticized by the political system seems to be the possibility of arresting large numbers of people for participating in demonstrations or riots without a clear indictment of an individual. the fact that they were fired is another matter. among those arrested were journalists and opposition politicians, and this is something that must be rejected, absolutely, anywhere in the world. but releasing them does not solve the problem, especially in a member state of the council of europe. let us support the movement of this caucasian republic towards common values of democracy. let's not let the medieval forces of islamists get the green light.
as a result of the institutional crisis triggering the financial crisis, we are witnessing polarization. there seems to be a danger of a europe divided between those who want deeper political integration combined with the pursuit of a more social europe on the one hand and those who want a single market europe combined with the relaxation of institutions on the other. i want to stress that the future of the european union is not a matter of choosing between these paths. the union must make progress in stabilising its institutional framework, reform its budget and focus its resources on areas that will enable us to survive in a global environment. the next british presidency has much sympathy in central europe for efforts to reform finance and modernise the economy, but must not conflate this with loosening the institutions. france and germany also sympathize with the drive to deepen political integration, but this cannot be associated with the consolidation of a dysfunctional social system and protectionism. but the political dispute over the economic and social concept must be settled in the institutional arena. if the union is to find a way out of the current crisis, it must not set the institutional framework at the same time as the content of specific policies. he can't just go out and decide how many goals to score in one go. the next presidency has a unique opportunity to strengthen the credibility of its efforts to reform the union's budgetary and economic system, and to work first and foremost to stabilise the institutional framework on the basis of the first and second parts of the constitution.
i too would like to begin by thanking the luxembourg presidency for its very high-quality and professional work. i would also like to begin by thanking the president of the european council, jean-claude juncker. this great statesman, this great politician, although from a small country, has clearly shown that even small and medium-sized countries can play a big role in europe. they can play it if they stick to the ideas on which europe was built step by step after the second world war, namely the idea of europeanism, the idea of solidarity, the idea of giving priority to european interests over particular and often selfish national interests. i am convinced that jean claude juncker will always be a great example, especially for the new countries, the small and medium-sized countries of central and eastern europe. i would also like to congratulate the luxembourg presidency on the solution it has found for ratifying the european constitution. it gives the possibility to those states which so wish to proceed with this ratification. i believe that on july 10th, the luxembourgers will say yes in a referendum. i wish politicians in other countries, including my own czech republic, had the same courage to allow their citizens to vote. i would like to mention one more point which has not been discussed so far, namely the enlargement of the european union. during the luxembourg presidency, accession agreements were signed with bulgaria and romania. i have supported this step, the majority of this parliament has supported it, and despite what has happened in france, in the netherlands, i am convinced that it was the right step. as last year's enlargement showed, the new member states are not the problem, they are behaving very responsibly, whether it is the ratification of the constitution or the summit last weekend. i believe that romania and bulgaria will behave equally responsibly after 2007 or 2008.
i welcome the fact that the defeated word crisis has been replaced by the bold words opportunity, modernisation and change, and that tony blair is ready to address the deep contradiction between the arrogance of eu politicians, the real lives of citizens and the global evolution of the world economy. citizens are not interested in dreams, but in living standards and whether they will have jobs. two recent figures for the last year demonstrate the real results of union policy. firstly, the cost of labour for businessmen increased by 3.5%, and secondly, the cost of electricity for citizens increased by 5%, which is not a good thing. i believe that the british presidency will move from very apt words to bold actions that will lift the union's stagnation, give it a new direction and increase its credibility in the world. one final note. a lot has been said in this room about the need to reach out to citizens, so i suggest we start with myself today, in this very room. we reject the uniform statute which guarantees to members from the whole of the twenty-five, without any justification, the same high salary and pension benefits. i consider it a mockery of those who sent us here, not of their will.
ladies and gentlemen, i consider mr chichester's report to be a good compromise at the moment and therefore i support it. of course, security of supply has many facets. but i think we should not just focus on backups and other technical aspects. after all, the reliability of electricity supply can greatly affect the optimization of the flow of electricity at critical, if you will, load moments. this optimisation entails a reduction in the necessary reserves and costs, but above all, in the face of impending crises, it brings greater security. so i think it's time to set up some sort of independent international coordination centre. we're connecting networks, we're doing business faster, so there's a growing need to know more about electricity flows in real time. coordination is already taking place at regional level, for example between the czech republic and its neighbours, and similarly elsewhere, so why not give it the framework of an independent eu-wide coordination centre?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. few directives have generated such heated debate as this one. i think each of us has been intensely confronted by both supporters and opponents of this directive. the directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions is a significant game changer in the most dynamic sectors of the european economy. a passionate debate has been sparked by the ambiguous interpretation of the term 'program as such' which precludes an exception from patentability. i support consistent software protection through the protection of the original creative solution of the whole program or parts of it, but not the granting of patents on individual ideas. on the other hand, a solution which combines the idea itself with a technical effect, such as an automobile safety system, must be patentable. it's clear that protecting your own formula, order, or instruction is a step in the wrong direction. i am not against patents in general, but i do not want to accept the adoption of the directive as proposed by the council, which i believe can be interpreted in a vague way. i shall therefore support only a version of the text which avoids possible double interpretation and which clarifies the text. the set of amendments tabled by our group seeks to remedy the problems just mentioned. i cannot help mentioning the council's attitude, which i personally regret, which ignored the request by myself and many of my colleagues for the directive to be returned to first reading, supported also by the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament. i trust that the council will listen better to our comments and thus promote mutual respect and cooperation between these important institutions. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr rocard, and in particular the shadow rapporteur, mrs kauppi, for the excellent work they have done.
ladies and gentlemen, in the public interest, the european convention prohibits patenting what is not a technical solution, in particular scientific theories and works of art, mathematical methods, plans and rules for the exercise of intellectual activity, and even computer programs. copyright law provides protection against misuse, yet some 20 companies have filed over 20,000 patent applications involving computer programs. these include control software for everything from washing machines to unique medical devices, but also applications for patents on clean software and business practices such as shopping in an online shopping cart. unfortunately, in many cases, national patent offices and then the courts decide differently, and that is why europe needs clear rules. unfortunately, a modern general european patent directive is still lacking, which complicates today's discussion of a specific directive that is not conceptual and goes beyond the european but also the world patent convention trips. it is favoured by large companies, and this is certainly important, but the legal and computer community, the academic community, smaller companies and also, for example, the czech senate, point out the ambiguity of the directive and thus the risk of extensive interpretation with serious consequences for smes and consumers. moreover, the council has unfortunately not presented the impact study for smes and for the new member states, as requested by the european parliament. here in parliament, an ad hoc coalition is being formed across the factions. our goal is to compromise to agree on joint amendments and to patent the funwar, i.e. the control programs for technical equipment, but only as part of the whole invention. we also want to make it easier for consumers to interoperate and to avoid patenting trivial ideas, since the cost of a patent is €30,000 and the procedure takes an average of four years. both are barriers to the dynamic development of the it sector, which is driven by smes, which account for 70% of turnover and 80% of employment in the sector. we therefore propose a clearer line between machine patents and pure software. in conclusion, i would like to ask the commission to clarify how far we have come in preparing a modern european patent. if the directive cannot be changed, the whole group will reject it.
the commission considers that the measure is selective. the debate on the hatzidakis report is taking place at a time when the union is in its deepest crisis. the trigger mechanism for the crisis was an irresponsible attempt to impose the european constitution on the member states. the constitution is a stillborn child, but it has brought to light long-standing animosities within the union and the member states are unable to agree on the budget for 2007-13. and in this tense atmosphere we find out with sadness that the hatzidakis report divides the union once again into two blocs, the old countries and the new countries. for understandable reasons, the old countries are very creatively restricting the resources that were supposed to help the faster dynamics of the new countries, so today we know that according to the report, it's best to be somewhere in the original 15 countries, and if you're also an island, even better an outermost region, and especially in the area of statistical effect, you win. the fact that by far the greatest challenge for a united europe is to overcome the consequences of half a century of non-market development in the post-communist member countries is omitted from a short-term, often pre-election, perspective in the report. to make it even more difficult for inexperienced new countries to draw on resources, the report excludes a more flexible application of the n+2 rule to the structural funds. it does not address the vat problem in projects co-financed by the union. the report also affects the natural entrepreneur who wants to move his production to another member state where he will find skilled, cheap and hardworking labour. on the one hand, we are not allowing a well-known polish plumber to work behind the former iron curtain to prove that it is possible to work 40 hours a week, and on the other hand we are forcing entrepreneurs to remain in areas of the union where labour is excessively expensive, often only 35 hours a week for full pay. we prevent the entrepreneur from going to the polish plumber. and that's only because he used to benefit from the structural funds. but he didn't know that we would one day hold him hostage for this, according to one proposal, for a meaningless 10 years. maybe he'll reconsider taking the advantage. it's perfectly anti-lisbon, but it's probably gothenburg. however, the hatzidakis report inadvertently points to another problem for the union. it ignores the will of the people with contempt and refers again to the constitution for europe, which has been so clearly rejected and buried by the french and dutch people. it continues to do so in the elitist spirit that has brought the union into a deep crisis. that is why it is difficult to vote for this report.
ladies and gentlemen, as i listen to this debate, i hear that we clearly agree that the aim of cohesion policy is to ensure the balanced development of all the regions in the individual member states. this is the fulfilment of the principle of solidarity, which is one of the fundamental pillars of the european union. however, if this principle is to be maintained after the enlargement of the ten new countries, i believe that we must adopt the two major changes proposed in tomorrow's vote on the structural funds. we should really agree that the structural funds should be used to pay back value added tax where it is not refundable. this is particularly the case for the european regional development fund. the provision of non-refundable vat as an expense paid in addition would make it significantly more difficult for many beneficiaries to draw money. i fear that especially smaller applicants from poorer countries might not even reach the new tens with money from european funds. secondly, we should remove the automatic exclusion rule, the so-called n+2 rule, from the cohesion fund implementation rules or at least allow more flexibility in the first years of the programming period. the cohesion fund pays for large-scale investment projects in the environment and transport sectors, and a strict application of the n+2 rule would seriously jeopardise the drawdown of this money, again especially in the new 10 countries which do not yet have sufficient experience with the implementation of the structural funds and the cohesion fund.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to highlight a few points which i consider to be the most important for tomorrow's vote on the regulations and the structural funds. we reject the full application of the n+2 rule to the cohesion fund, because we believe that this could lead to a substantial loss of funds from the cohesion fund to the detriment of the new member states. we should also try to find ways of making vat eligible expenditure, especially for the european regional development fund, where the beneficiaries are cities and municipalities. in pursuing these demands, we have encountered misunderstandings from the rapporteur, the coordinator and some other colleagues. i must say, i'm a little disappointed with the results of our efforts. but i believe in the common sense of the majority, and that is why i hope that the proposals we have put forward will be adopted tomorrow.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is one of the pillars of european integration. its importance will increase in the next programming period as it will become an instrument not only for bridging the economic disparities between regions, but also for making europe more competitive on a global scale. while i appreciate the work of all those who have contributed to the preparation of parliament's opinion on the proposals, i am disappointed by the lack of interest shown so far in most of the new member states' requests and needs. after months of discussions in the committee of the regions, i felt that the comments of the new member states' meps were not taken into account. this approach contrasted with the attention paid to the needs of the former cohesion countries, the outermost regions, the regions affected by the statistical effect. their voices, unlike ours, were not only heard but duly considered. in this context, i particularly regret the attitude of the members from the former cohesion countries, who have so far turned their backs on our proposals to maintain the current rules, even though they themselves have benefited from those rules in the past. in particular, i am thinking of the n+3 rule for the cohesion fund or the rule that vat is included in the eligible costs of non-taxable persons. unfortunately, i have to say that most of the concessions in favour of the new member states concerned the report on the general regulation on the structural funds or the report on the cohesion fund, where parliament has no right to intervene directly in the commission's proposal. in the proposal for a european regional fund, where we have that right, the same requirements have been categorically rejected, in other words, concessions have been made to the new member states where this is of very limited importance. i would consider the complete exclusion of value added tax from eligible costs to be a huge political mistake and a callous decision in relation to the new member states, where tens of millions of citizens can ask themselves: are we really treated equally when we are denied the favourable rules that the old member states have enjoyed for many years? i therefore ask for your understanding and support in maintaining these rules for the period 2007-13.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of reconciling work and family life is a classic one today. one of the causes of women's unequal status in the work process is employers' concerns about the conflict of interests between the work and family roles. although women in the czech republic make up almost 44% of the labour force, the ratio of women to men in management positions is, at best, 1:5 according to our research. women who are interested in pursuing a professional career must perform exceptionally well, i would say better than what is required for men to succeed in the same profession so that they are considered their equal partners. the average wage of women in the czech republic is currently 19% lower than that of men. it is also a fact that women themselves often ask for lower pay than men applying for the same job at job interviews, which in itself is a sign of lower self-esteem in employment-legal relations. promoting equal rights for women and men should therefore not be just a matter of adopting various directives and laws. the directive is, but it must be born of fundamental changes within the whole of european culture, i dare say finally of a complete overcoming of the middle ages in our country, but also of overcoming the error of thinking that equality between men and women is not just a women's problem, but that there is such a thing as discrimination against men.
i am convinced that europe needs common, clear and also modern patent rules. it is crucial to remove barriers to the union's internal market, to promote investment in research, to protect against piracy and to protect europe as a whole. i appreciate the will of the members from all political parties, including the european people's party, who helped to find that common compromise on our 20 amendments to the directive, which were intended to patent funware only as part of a technical device to enable interoperability and to prevent the patenting of pure software patents. at the end of the political negotiations, i supported the rejection of the directive because i believe it is a clear, strong gesture by the european parliament that will be seen by the european council and the european commission as a signal to step up efforts to achieve a common proposal for a general european patent, not a specific patent directive.
there will be no peace in the balkans until we measure with different meters, different communities. if you think the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia measures everyone equally, you are deeply mistaken. so far, no one has been summoned to the scene of the plane that twice hit a train on a bridge before hitting a pylon, destroying both the bridge and the train. this is unacceptable! don't pretend, my dear colleagues, that you don't know. how many albanians and foreign muslim mercenaries have been sentenced to date? many of them, including under your patronage, are now ruling kosovo. and you, my colleagues, are you sleeping well? you guys are having a good time here? you even want to confirm the secession from serbia? that you're not ashamed. paragraph 4 of the resolution we are presenting rightly states that all war criminals must be captured and brought before the tribunal. i believe you mean that. so, follow the results of the tribunal's work. if you have any respect, let's try to get back to this soon. and if you think the powers that be are and should be allowed to go unpunished, then make that clear. the public in the european union and the world will surely show you how they feel about such hypocrisy. and don't forget the severed heads and mutilated bodies of the victims. justice cannot be divided into friends and foes. hundreds of thousands of refugees are still waiting to return, including to the areas of slavonia and the border between croatia and bosnia. today we czechs commemorate 490 years since the burning of master jan hus by the catholic church. he hasn't been rehabilitated yet.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on relations between the european union, china and taiwan and security in the far east.
ladies and gentlemen, critics of europe often say that europe is too self-absorbed, that it pays maximum attention to its surroundings, that it is not attentive to problems, for example in east asia. i think the debate today shows the opposite, that we are aware of the challenges that are coming from east asia, the rising power of china and the power of japan, north korea, south korea and of course the security challenges that are coming from east asia. as for china, i fully share the view of the uk presidency that there is a need to strengthen global dialogue, that europe and china are global partners, that they must jointly tackle global challenges such as security, energy security, such as climate change. this dialogue, this partnership, which i also believe will be included in the framework agreement, does not exclude but rather encourages dialogue in the field of human rights. there was taiwan, there was south korea, and these two countries show how it is possible to go from a totalitarian authoritarian state to a democracy, step by step. and i believe that a strengthened dialogue with china in the field of human rights can lead to a similar result.
at the end of this debate, i received five motions for resolutions11 see the minutes submitted pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 7 july 2005. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the council and commission statement on a world without mines.
at the end of this debate, i received six motions for resolutions11 see the minutes submitted pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is now closed. the vote will take place on 7 july 2005. (the sitting, suspended at 5.50 p.m., was resumed at 6.00 p.m.)
the author. ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be able to give my full support to the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in ethiopia. it is not king john's land that he is seeking, but it is a sign that we are aware of the plight of one of africa's poorest countries. the founding countries of the organisation of african unity, a country still plagued by instability in somalia, conflict with the medieval regime in eritrea, neighbouring sudan, which has been dealing with internal conflicts between the north and the south for decades, and the disastrous situation in darfur. the country has been rocked by coups, drained by drought and the war in uganda. it is very important in this situation to build the confidence of the ethiopian people in the democratic system. i agree with the president of the commission who took part in the elections, and this resolution rightly supports that. but that is not enough, we cannot tolerate the non-compliance or circumvention of the laws of the country, especially in a situation where the high voter turnout indicates a great interest of the citizens. the effective investigation of all complaints should be encouraged. but we must continue in our quest. aid should be given to the country to improve its agricultural and industrial situation. many countries have already been involved in the past and it is desirable to significantly step up this programme. aid to a country must be clearly targeted at solving its basic problems, not at supporting the government. in particular, the assistance of experts in training farmers and, where appropriate, in the search for and construction of water resources is as important as the provision of study places in secondary and higher education institutions of the european union. the old saying goes, if you want to feed a man, give him a fish, if you want to help him, teach him to fish. let's follow that.
mr president, during the summer months, the european constitution was ratified by three more countries. cyprus, malta and luxembourg. in luxembourg, this was done by way of a referendum. i would appreciate this move very much. this step shows that the european constitution, despite the opinions of its opponents, the eurosceptics, is not a dead document. i would like to invite those countries which have not yet ratified the european constitution, including my own country, the czech republic, to try to do so in the coming months. as for my country, the czech republic, two thirds of the population wish to express their opinion on this document, 49% still support the european constitution. ratification is also a call to the european parliament to strengthen the dialogue with citizens, to strengthen the debate on the ratification of the european constitution and, of course, on the future of the european union.
the commission's statement on natural disasters (fire and floods) is on the agenda.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a great example of a great european union. in recent years, europe has been witness to many natural disasters. as mayor of hradec králové, i myself experienced floods in my home country, the czech republic, when many of our towns were flooded and many people lost their homes. but floods very often take lives and property throughout central europe, in austria, germany, hungary and romania. the south is plagued by scorching heat and wildfires, and as we have just heard, forest fires are still raging in spain and portugal. i saw this happening firsthand when the regional committee visited the algarve, portugal, this summer. recall also the devastating storms that swept through the baltic states and sweden in january of this year. ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the european union is debating its future, its institutions cannot win the hearts and minds of the citizens of its member countries in a better way than by emphasising the prevention and mobilisation of real aid to mitigate the effects of these natural disasters. i personally remember how the concrete financial assistance of the european union was positively received by our citizens during the floods in the czech republic. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. as early as january, i had an intensive discussion with representatives of slovak municipalities in brussels on the possibility of european aid to the highest slovak mountains, where i, as president of the association of towns and municipalities of the czech republic and as an mep, invited them to become familiar with the possibilities and functioning of the european institutions. at the same time, slovakia also requested the european union to provide assistance in covering the damage caused by the storm. to date, more than 7 months have passed since this request and the money has not yet reached the affected areas. neither we nor you can be satisfied with this delay. we hope therefore that the relevant decision will be adopted and administered as soon as possible. hopefully, it'll be before a year and a day after the storm in the tatras. let's not shirk our responsibility and support concrete action.
for the group commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not a party to the treaty. the galileo programme is very ambitious, but also highly scientific and technically demanding and therefore very expensive. this not only arouses interest but also arouses different opinions and reactions. on the one hand, it is seen as a project that strengthens europe's competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world, including the united states, which we are otherwise largely unable to catch up with in science and technology, for example. galileo is superior to the similar american gps system, which was originally a military system. moreover, at a time when the european union is fighting for public support in the atmosphere of debates on the fate of the constitutional treaty, there is a chance to build a project that will allow, among other benefits, the creation of thousands of new and needed jobs. on the other hand, i can understand the voices pointing to the high financial costs of the galileo programme, and the dangers of its wasteful use. it is not just our group that is hearing them, and they are entirely legitimate, since we have daily experience from various member states of negative examples of such expenditure. it is understandable that the european parliament must retain the means and instruments of control and ensure that the funds it spends are transparent and effective. there is also talk of whether to reduce funding for the galileo project appropriately in the context of discussions on the overall reduction of the european union budget. galileo is just moving from a successful development and validation phase to a deployment phase, and to hear the call for savings and to want to save at all costs by mechanical cuts is like wanting an originally three-stage rocket launcher to take an object into space even if you don't give it one of the stages. the result will be nothing. and just one last note. i am personally pleased that, as i am thinking about the prospects of the galileo project with its wide range of civil applications, the responsible bodies in the czech republic are not only supporting the system's construction but are also taking the appropriate practical steps to implement it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr öry for his great work and for his cooperation in this report, which i was able to review with him as a shadow rapporteur for our group. i agree with mrs oomen-ruijten that the debate on the report was long and, because of the unclear position of the commission and the council, it was even vulgarised in some of the press. i am convinced that the protection of workers' health from optical radiation is of european standard. it is, after all, in the context of my report on occupational health, which i submitted to this parliament as rapporteur some time ago and which was approved by parliament. it was recalled that according to the world health organisation thousands of people die of skin cancer and there is therefore a clear need for greater protection of workers exposed to natural optical radiation in particular. i do not understand the reasons of some colleagues who want to exclude this natural radiation, nor do i agree with the amendments which want to leave it to the employers to inform and protect workers against optical radiation. protection of workers is expensive, but it is necessary if we are to be honest about occupational health.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today.
the next item is the report by mr henri weber, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the application of articles 4 and 5 of directive 89/552/eec on television without frontiers, as amended by directive 97/36/ec, for the period 2001 to 2002 [2004/2236 (ini) ] (a6-0202/2005).
mr. chairman, i have lived under communist rule for most of my life, so it seems to me like a familiar regulation that we apply in the tv without borders directive. we had similar soviet directives at the time, which ordered a drastic reduction in american production and the strengthening of european, meaning soviet and french, production. according to paragraph 14 of the weber report, parliament should be concerned about the uniqueness of european content in television programmes. but who determines this europeanness? i assure you that if there is a universal european, he has a simple way of dealing with any concerns he may have. it has a channel selector and, with a small satellite dish and a receiver for 130 euros, is able to watch 1 400 television channels. try to regulate it. we are not going to create a european television production with the directive. there are only national cultures and they will always fill the european quotas. the most european program, by the way, is the american film pretty woman. it is perfectly understood by the public in finland and portugal. hollywood production is a strangely european universalist production, and our persistent attempt to separate american culture from the european framework of civilization and values is ridiculous. i look forward to the day when, with turkey's accession, we will be able to exclude such understandable american films from the european quota system and instead make turkish films mandatory as part of a unified european culture. it's simple social engineering, which thinks that through prohibitions, quotas, regulations and subsidies, it can create cultural values. mistake, we'll only create a filmmaker who knows he can shoot nonsense that will be applauded by a small circle of relatives, lovers and friends. the result of the directive is that in the countries of the union we are supporting large groups of regulators, that we are supporting with subsidies untalented creators who would not survive in normal competition for viewers, that we are preserving an inefficient public television system, that we are financing european television channels with such a small number of viewers that the operation of the transmitters is a waste of electricity. a genuine culture, independent of regulation and endless subsidies, will survive at national level even without artificial union measures. let's repeal the directive and leave the management of cultural property where it belongs, in the nation states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at noon.
i would like to explain briefly my vote on the report by jonas sjöstedt - management of waste from extractive industries. the adoption of this proposal, in my view, significantly increases the cost of mining companies to extract, and as a result, the cost of building public networks, including roads and railways and all other public works where stone is used. the costs to the state for monitoring the extracted and not yet used materials will also increase enormously. all this will ultimately burden taxpayers throughout the european union without any positive effects, which is why i voted against most of the amendments.
ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the previous speakers that we have a very important and much needed proposal for a regulation which should have the greatest possible positive impact on the youngest citizens of the european union. as a doctor, i consider that the most important aspect of the proposal is to try to increase the protection of child patients, especially since they are a particularly vulnerable group of patients. the promotion of maximum availability of information on medicinal products and conditions guaranteeing increased protection of paediatric patients in clinical research is also a positive sign. i also welcome the creation of the mice programme for independent research into certain medicinal products. as regards the paragraph of article 36 under discussion, i consider that the three-month time limit as a maximum for patent protection is sufficient for the time being. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the hard work he has put into this debate and express my confidence that we will succeed in adopting a document with a positive impact on the social, health and ethical spheres.
the subject we are discussing here today is freedom and security. these are connected vessels. without freedom and basic human and civil rights there is no security, without security there can be no development of freedom, human rights, the rule of law. i say this as the representative of a new member country that for a long time, for decades, has lived without freedom, lived under foreign occupation. therefore, one of the reasons why the citizens of the czech republic, slovakia, poland, hungary and other countries supported joining the european union was precisely to strengthen the rule of law, human and civil rights and, of course, to strengthen security. citizens are aware that international terrorism, international organized crime, illegal migration know no borders, that in the era of globalization these problems cannot be solved by a single state. in other words, there is a need for intensive cooperation in all these areas. i therefore welcome the words of minister clark, who emphasises cooperation at intergovernmental level, between police forces, the exchange of information in the field of intelligence services, but i also welcome the initiatives of commissioner frattini, whether it is an initiative on new rules in the field of the common asylum and immigration policy, or whether it is already a directive on the retention of data in the field of telephone and internet services. the european public, as all opinion polls show, wants europe to cooperate more on security. i would therefore call on both the council and, above all, the commission to step up cooperation, because the public is of the opinion that more europe in this area means more security.
mr president, allow me to start by quoting from the iranian media: 'thanks to negotiations with europe we gained another year in which the natanz project reached a stage where a small number of centrifuges could operate. the ucf in isfahan is complete and uf4 and uf6 gases are produced. we converted 36 tonnes of yellow cake into gas. iran began talks with the wto. iran was recognised as one of the countries with a nuclear fuel cycle. we managed to make far greater progress than north korea'. that was said on iranian channel 2 on 4 august by mr hussein mussavian, the head of the iranian nuclear delegation. there is no military option; there is no regime change option. economic sanctions will only create a much larger disaster than the one in iraq. what can we do after russia's expected refusal of referral to the unsc? we can only try to strip iran of international recognition, immediately block its wto entry, impose tough diplomatic sanctions, exclude it from international sporting, cultural and social events and the olympic games. those are the only tools we have. as the head of parliament's israeli delegation, i wholeheartedly congratulate both the israeli and palestinian governments. i also welcome the eu statement on this engagement. we promise to monitor daily the use of the eur 60 million hopefully spent before the palestinian elections. we all support the conditional syrian association agreement as the last wedge to keep the door open. egypt is the cradle of middle eastern politics. clear, tough and immediate pressure for democratic conditions for democratic candidates in democratic elections will be more use than any iraq-style military intervention. nevertheless, legitimisation of the current process in iraq is a must if civil war is to be prevented. twelve months from now, the middle east will be a different region. the threats to our security are enormous. we have to stop immediately making a distinction between external relations and our internal security, between cutting out the roots of extremism and counter-terrorism.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. from my experience as headmaster of a secondary school in a regional town in the czech republic, which could be compared in number of pupils to the european school in alicante, spain, i believe i can assess which issues concern european schools most. the commission's communication shows that individual schools in the european schools system are constrained in their long-term budget planning by personnel management or by the definition of a school development strategy. in such conditions of uncertainty, no company can be run well, much less an educational institution. i therefore very much welcome the proposal to transfer these decisions to the heads of schools and school boards, who are the ones who know the current needs and requirements of their institutions best. now, i'd like to point out some of the issues that the shift to higher education is going to solve. many colleagues, educators, professionals and parents in most of our nation states would cry bitterly if the maximum number of students allowed in a classroom were 32. somewhere deep in the past, in some european school classrooms, the present. of course, this is not a widespread practice, but it does happen. it is clear that working with a smaller group of pupils allows for the use of different methods and practices of pedagogical work. we must take into account the needs of pupils with special educational needs and those whose language is different from the language in which they receive most of their instruction. if the institutions of the european union are to offer the children of their staff what they envisioned 50 years ago, namely quality educational services, they should take these clear requirements into account. finally, i would like to support the request that an alternative certificate be introduced for pupils who have chosen to study vocational programmes, alongside the european baccalaureate, which is highly academic. at the same time, it would be appropriate to direct part of the resources towards civic and practical skills which are essential to prepare every child for the future life. thank you, reporter.
ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said that tourism is a major world economic activity, a very dynamic industry, not only in the so-called developed world, but of course in the developed world as well. as far as economic significance is concerned, that significance is cross-cutting. tourism supports the construction of infrastructure, whether it concerns hotels, restaurants, airports, roads, supports education, supports the construction of buildings, banking, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. the meaning is clearly positive. as regards the political significance, it has already been said that in many cases tourism can support the development of human and civil rights, the development of democracy, the strengthening of political stability. i would also point out that tourism can also promote cross-cultural understanding, which is very important in times of globalisation and in times of various global risks. of course, tourism also presents some risks. as regards economic risks, the question of excessive economic dependence on tourism, environmental risks, the depletion of drinking and drinking water resources in many countries, the unresolved issue of waste management, whether solid or liquid, etc. have already been mentioned. and of course, the social risks. the eradication of local cultures, prostitution and child prostitution were mentioned, and in some countries also the growth of various kinds of intolerance, whether it be religious intolerance, various forms of xenophobia, racism, and often extremism. i personally welcome this report. the report highlights the opportunities offered by tourism, but also mentions many risks. i support this report, albeit with reservations. as to whether or not to create a dg for tourism, i too am of the opinion that it is not.
the author. this item is entitled famine in nigeria, and i shall therefore deal with the situation in niger, which is also mentioned in the french, german and english versions of the programme and the motions for resolutions tabled, amongst others. the entire continent of africa has one peculiarity in comparison to europe. the constant and uncontrolled movement of hundreds of thousands of people, often including livestock and all property, across borders stabilized in the first half of the 20th century, especially in the sahel region, where niger is located, has led to a rapid spread of crisis phenomena between the countries of the region. many who are familiar with niger's vast natural resources, including its large reserves of uranium ore, will wonder where the profits from this activity go. so, logically, the first requirement is to push for a reduction in corruption and a rational use of budgetary resources by the government of the country. it is true that the introduction of value added tax on flour and milk may worsen the food supply situation, but the fundamental flaw is in the small support for modern agriculture based on the construction of dams and water sources for the development of crop production. the large scale of nomadic herding, especially in the north of the country, is leading to desertification and aggravating the crisis over the years. in addition, nomads are crossing borders and the crisis could spread to other territories, especially mali and burkina faso. two decisions must therefore be taken without delay. one must deal with immediate food aid, the other with a broad programme of water and sewerage development, with the necessary complement of a sufficiently large system of education in rational agriculture based on plant production in a way appropriate to the area and protection against desertification by planting trees. the hardest part will probably be to restrict herding in the most vulnerable areas. other countries in the region must be involved in this programme, otherwise we will be faced with similar phenomena more and more frequently as the desert moves south. the food supply is only a matter of time. the longer-term perspective requires a systemic approach and is certainly not based on addressing the pressures for liberalising public services and opening up the market rapidly. this can only exacerbate the situation in the near future. let us therefore try to adopt in our vote a formulation which will enable the resolution to become the basis for a genuine solution to the problems not only in niger but also in the whole region.
thank you, mr kilroy-silk. the speaking time allotted to you is nothing personal. it is not my will, nor my responsibility. i am just reading the list in front of me, as you very well know.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the next item is the commission communication - outcome of the evaluation of draft legislation before the legislator.
thank you, commissioner. i now give the floor to mr stubb. i am afraid i am not sure how i should pronounce your name, mr stubb.
the third railway package, whose individual reports do not have much in common, is an example of a hasty, uncoordinated and therefore harmful approach to rail transport. when the second railway package was adopted, it was clearly and intelligibly stated that this package would first be evaluated and only then further measures would be taken, which is why our minority view on liberalisation is also negative. i think that the time is ripe for the adoption of a directive on common uniform authorizations for the operator of a locomotive, and we all agree on that. the other reports are by no means as urgent as the one presented here. but if you want to open up the railway market today, ladies and gentlemen, then that is a harmful step. moreover, it comes before the start of the implementation of the cer agreement, that is, the international association of railway infrastructure companies and transport commissioners. is your desire to liberalize at all costs to be preferred to the unification of safety and security standards for infrastructure and vehicles? i cannot agree with that, which is why, for this report, with all due respect to the rapporteur, mr george jarzembowski, i must ask you to vote against it unequivocally. let us respect the agreement reached when the second railway package was adopted and try to return to this subject by the deadline set, which is 2008. i would like to emphasise that the trade association of railway workers in the czech republic and the czech government have asked me to expressly support the savary report and reject the jarzembowski report. in conclusion, i would like to say that the rejection of the report proposed by mr zileg and the disagreement with mr jarzembowski's report are not good signs for the attempt to push through the package. the quality proposals in the savary report have our support. the sterckx and jarzembowsky reports, commissioner, are not connected in any way.
last december, i said here that the european union should live up to its commitments and appreciate the progress that turkey has made. i would like to repeat that challenge today. as stated in the resolution we are voting on, turkey has formally fulfilled all the conditions for accession negotiations to be opened with turkey on 3 october. these accession negotiations mark the beginning of a long open-ended process. it will depend first and foremost on our turkish friends whether they are able to accept all the demands, all the criteria that the countries that joined the european union last year were forced to accept. there are political demands, there are human and civil rights issues, there are economic preparedness issues, there are other and other issues, but i think and i am of the opinion that the european union should give our turkish friends a chance and try to overcome this very difficult obstacle for many.
mr president, i wish to make a few remarks that some might find heretical. in my opinion, the european union should encourage international political debate that would open the way for investment in developing countries. the benefits of this are obvious: major european companies would contribute financial resources to developing countries, while europe would benefit from the cheaper oil from those countries and help to increase living standards there. from an economic point of view, we should let the market work without any regulation, any limitation or any further burdens. we should stop dreaming of cure-all renewable energy sources and remain realistic. we should not make any attempts to artificially influence oil prices. the only possible solution is to let the market work. the market forces stemming from a supply and demand approach will themselves re-establish the balance between high consumption devices and the natural and consumer-friendly development of brand new products. we must not step up our efforts to achieve tax harmonisation at a supranational level and we must not promote tax incentives that would result in lower rates of taxation for individual segments of the energy or oil industry.
ladies and gentlemen, we all have experience of unhealed wounds and grievances that can distort our view of the current situation, and this includes belarus. so let us consider three things. let's try to build an objective picture of the situation in the country, i.e. not to select information sources, but to try to perceive even what does not correspond to the black and white vision of belarus. furthermore, we should not exclude anyone a priori from the discussion, even though we may not always agree with their views. finally, belarus is not just lukashenko and vice versa. the union's policy shall aim at improving the situation of the country and its people. while i am not biased towards the government of president lukashenko and do not deny its gross failures, i would like to point out that the policy of increasing pressure with sanctions, demonizing the regime's officials and simplifying the problem into a propaganda form usually only escalates the situation and solves nothing.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union and india are destined to be strategic partners. together, we make up the two largest democracies in the world. democracies that are based on respect for human and civil rights, that are based on the principles of the rule of law. the eu and india are destined to cooperate strategically to address global political and security challenges, whether at bilateral level or, for example, at the united nations. the eu and india are destined to have close economic cooperation, the european union is india's largest trading partner and, as we have already seen, india is investing massively in europe. in my own country, the czech republic, for example, mittal steel is successfully restructuring the czech steel industry. india and the eu are also destined to work together on the environment, agriculture, human rights, the millennium development goals, and the fight against poverty. i would like to conclude by thanking and congratulating our rapporteur, mr menéndez del valle, for a very balanced and good report. i support this report and i believe that this parliament will also support it massively in its vote tomorrow.
first of all, i want to say that the commission has negotiated a restriction on chinese textile imports, which have flooded both europe and developing countries, unfortunately exactly in the year of the expected scenario. last year, when the commission was informed of the forecast and a few politicians, including myself, sounded the alarm, europe was silent and did not send any warning signals to china or to the retail chains, nor did it prepare in time for rapid monitoring. the mistake was not to tell traders before they signed the contracts that the union would use the safeguard clause and limit the growth of imports to an acceptable level, that we would not foolishly ignore the liquidation of an industry which employs millions of women in southern and central europe. unfortunately, the limits came six months later, after huge import contracts were signed, and so the goods were blocked in european ports. it was clear that the chinese scenario would require the bulk of the supplies to be brought into europe. the deal looks like a piece of paper. so i ask you, was that meant seriously? critics say it was just a sham of the european parliament. i do not feel that way, and that is why i am asking on behalf of the czech textile industry and others to extend the quotas for one year, that is, until the end of 2008. it's a re-calculated compensation for exceeding the agreed june limits. but above all, i would like to call for this interim period to be used to change europe's trade strategy. it is essential to use all economic and political levers to force communist china to reciprocally open its markets, to accept the international covenant on civil and political rights and the covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, and to meet minimum standards at an early stage. it also called on the commission to abandon the practice of circumventing the ban on state subsidies to exporting companies, to prevent commercial piracy and to take joint responsibility for the management of waste and the remediation of environmental damage. i believe that the union will finally become a strong player on the global stage and that our commissioner will be a strategist and not just an arbiter of occasional disputes.
for the group gue/ngl. serbia and montenegro is still one of the european countries where more than 20 nationalities live side by side. it is true that the cowardly bombing of nato forces has led to over 40% unemployment and the ethnic cleansing of the surrounding countries, which has forced 700,000 refugees to flee. it is good that the resolution states the interest in preserving the peaceful coexistence of the nationalities. the economic aid that the european union is offering to help this hard-hit country develop economically will certainly help. otherwise, this resolution would be just another proof of our hypocrisy and a mockery of the people of serbia and montenegro. i believe that the main investments that are being prepared will be directed to the highway across vojvodina, to the restoration of bridges across the sava and danube and to help improve the main lines in the country. please don't tell me that after you cowardly support the bombing of this country you won't tell the serbs and other nations: "we apologize, we invite you to start accession talks. we know you're a key player in the balkans, and we want to make up for past mistakes, if we can. don't tell me this resolution is about something else. then no one in this room could support her. if you have any honor in your body and you know that our voters are very negative about nato intervention. or am i wrong?
madam president, minister alexander, i can still recall the situation 15 years ago when an iranian delegation approached the newly-freed czechoslovakia to buy its nuclear equipment for the bushehr power plant. i do not think that the situation has changed a lot since then, even though i have seen iranians coming through shaff al-arab to basra; even though we have seen british soldiers dying in southern iraq; even though we know about iranian support to hizbollah; even though we know about human rights violations. i think that being gathered here today is the only clear aim. we have to stop iran from completing its nuclear fuel cycle. we have to stop enrichment as a conversion-related activity which is not allowed and covered by npt. no-one denies the iranian right to nuclear energy for civilian use. nevertheless, we need to stop its military programme. we have to bring iran back to the negotiating table to push it to ratify the additional protocol, to adopt all transparency measures and to cooperate in a transparent way and work with the iaea. we strongly support here today the council decisions and the eu troika. we especially support france and the uk if it is indeed true that this afternoon iran has sent signals that it is returning to the negotiation table. it would be great if this were to happen. nevertheless, we do not have the right to blame the us. we have to blame a damaging, totalitarian, oppressive regime which is not able to prove that it is going to use its nuclear energy for civilian purposes only. today all of us – parliament, the council and commission – have to stand firm, strong and unified.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, the report presented focused on education as a pillar of the lisbon strategy. i believe that the report rightly highlights some of the problems we are facing at the moment, but i would like to oppose the general wording of the report which makes education a mere tool for economic growth and does not see education as a tool for personal growth. this is the view that was once promoted by the historian jan amos komenský. but despite the above problem, i agree that education must be our priority, especially with regard to item 17, financial support. i'd like to support the youth issue. they often have the opportunity to get an education, but they have a hard time getting involved in the process and finding the right profession and the right acceptance of their own education that we offer them. the emphasis must not be on young people alone, but we must also change the approach to other age groups. i believe that education should be a right, a duty and a necessity for life.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen. the initiative to promote education in europe as part of the lisbon strategy will not be met with resistance in this forum. promoting education is beneficial to society in many ways and the lisbon strategy, which aims to achieve a highly dynamic and competitive economy, indicates the supporting function of education as a cornerstone or cornerstone. but using that terminology today, i would expect at least a definition of the sub-goals and a tactical set of points to achieve them, just a more understandable structure. while i appreciate that the report emphasises the crucial role of universities, this position is included as the penultimate item, number 21, followed by the president's authorisation to deliver a resolution. the recommendation to strengthen the role of universities by developing cooperation between european higher education, european research, lifelong learning in europe and manufacturing can be considered a strategic priority. of course, i cannot comment on all the aspects of these relationships in the time available, which can lead to the modernisation of universities, including the improvement of the quality of higher education, and i will highlight only a few aspects. it is well known that science makes money out of knowledge and innovation makes money out of knowledge. however, the mechanical increase in funding to universities is not leading to the expected result and one of the crucial systemic changes that the european union should strongly support is the involvement of universities in innovative entrepreneurship. economic research has shown that university-business cooperation, the availability of capital for innovative enterprises, and the development and promotion of public-private partnerships also make a significant contribution to the country's overall innovation potential. this opens up the possibility of a meaningful and effective use of european funds to motivate and initiate activities that increase the innovation potential. however, the availability of these resources must be determined by the quality of the project content and not by the completion of complex formalities. simplification, flexibility, transparency of the project, together with legislative conditions, are key factors in getting the whole process of university modernisation off the ground in a meaningful way.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i think the topic we're discussing seems crucial to many of us. if we are to achieve the lisbon objectives of sustainable, knowledge-based growth and more and better jobs, strengthening social cohesion, promoting equal opportunities, we cannot ignore one of their key factors, namely human resources. an investment in education can never be a bad investment. in my professional experience, i know that quality education depends to a large extent on quality and qualified teachers, and if these teachers are to survive in a knowledge-based society, they must also be given the opportunity to continue their education, especially in the field of information technology. education is not just schooling. the lifelong learning system is also an important part of this. the development of national strategies for lifelong learning and training and the integration of national reforms into the european context are essential for achieving the lisbon objectives. in order to meet most of these requirements, they also need to be provided with sufficient funding resources. i therefore join the call for the union to provide budgetary resources that are capable of covering these needs. the european social fund after 2006 must continue to be available in all member states of the union. many striking results are found when comparing education systems. it is therefore highly appropriate to create an additional indicator in key areas or where they are currently missing. this is the area of languages, information and communication technologies, investment efficiency, adult learning, so that the performance and progress achieved by individual education systems can be assessed. thank you, mr. newsman.
member of the commission. mr president, quality is the central part of the strategy if we really want to make a difference and i am glad that we are going to speak again about education and quality. exactly one year ago, on 12 october 2004, the commission adopted a proposal for a council and parliament recommendation on further european cooperation and quality assurance in higher education. this proposal is based on the results of the 1998 council recommendation, so we are just continuing to work towards the goals agreed between the member states. the main aim of this proposal is to facilitate the mutual recognition of quality assurance assessments across the european union and in this way to achieve easy recognition of qualifications and easier mobility for citizens. it means allowing citizens to move with their rights and capabilities, not only as tourists within the union. the commission’s proposal has been the subject of many fruitful debates in ecosoc, in the council education committee and in the committee on culture and education of this parliament. discussions between the british presidency, parliament and the commission have led to a set of compromise amendments which are the subject of your debate and vote during this part-session. the commission can accept all amendments proposed in the compromise text. i will illustrate some of them and the commission’s position by referring to the most important amendments. we welcome the new recital referring to the bergen communiqué. we believe it supports coherence between eu and bologna quality activities. this is in our common interest, given the fact that bologna signatory states and eu member states are the same countries. we now have 45 countries in the bologna process. on recommendation b on higher education sector involvement, diversity and innovation, we also welcome the reference to the involvement of the higher education sector in the further development of quality standards and guidelines and the reference to the need to protect and promote diversity and innovation. as regards recommendation c and point 1 of the annex on the european register, the amendments stress the role of the national authorities in the setting-up of a european register of quality assurance agencies. the amendments reflect the responsibility of public authorities for the national quality assurance systems. recommendation d is about universities’ choice of agency. this recommendation calls on member states to enable higher education institutions to choose an agency from the register which meets their needs and profile. the amendment makes this freedom of choice conditional on permission given by national authorities. i am happy that the principle of free choice remains in the text because it is important. recommendation e on licensing and funding is deleted. international reputation enhancement is added. i welcome this. we consider that deletion of the licensing and funding purpose in the text does not exclude that national authorities may use foreign assessments as a basis for funding and licensing decisions. the compromise text supports the main thrust of the commission’s proposal. the commission can accept the amendments. implementation of the recommendation will help to make quality assurance in europe more coherent and more effective. i therefore hope that the recommendation can be adopted at first reading. i would also like to stress the remarkable work done by mrs novak in close collaboration with the commission and the council. this work has allowed us to come to an excellent result today.
for the ppe-de group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. most of us will no doubt agree that education, especially at the highest university level, is one of the basic prerequisites for achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the performance of european higher education needs to be improved to make it more transparent and credible for our citizens as well as for students and researchers from other continents. few doubt that education is a key factor in development and in competing in the world marketplace. science is a determining element of technological development, which is linked to national wealth, because universities are places where both cutting-edge science and teaching are cultivated, and their evaluation is of interest not only to academics but also to the public. in order to ensure the highest possible quality of this level of education in all areas, a common set of standards and procedures should be established to assess each school against a number of criteria. the member states themselves should be interested in seeing how their universities perform in international comparison, since they are the ones who grant the right to award academic degrees and also largely finance this study. the council recommends that member states establish organisations to ensure the quality of training and the quality of accreditation. however, if the evaluating organisation is to fulfil the functions entrusted to it, it should itself be subject to regular assessment to ensure its full independence and professionalism and thus its evaluation to be considered correct and beyond doubt. the most affected, students and university staff, should also be involved in the overall evaluation system. in order to ensure that quality at european level, a reliable list or register of independent and trusted quality assurance organisations should be established. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ludmile novak, for her excellent work.
ladies and gentlemen, i had the honour and pleasure of working with my colleague mr beaupuy on the report on the urban dimension of enlargement. we soon came to agree that the problems and difficulties facing cities in the new member states were identical to those that cities in the countries that had joined the european union much earlier had to face and still have to face. it just confirms how much we really are alike. it is good that the european parliament is dealing with the problem of cities and large agglomerations, and i hope that this initiative will find a corresponding response in the form of concrete action by the european commission. as i have had the opportunity to find out in discussions with representatives of czech cities, and i have no doubt that a similar situation exists in other newly acceding countries, the biggest difficulties include, for example, the considerable investment deficit inherited from previous years, problems with assets inherited from the military, transport problems, the revitalization of abandoned industrial areas and panel settlements, and so on. we must not forget that cities and municipalities are important actors in the european union's cohesion policy. between 2000 and 2006, some €30 billion went to cities, and i firmly believe that this amount will be increased even further in the next budget period, 2007 to 2013. to those who claim that the submission of projects and applications for european funds is administratively burdensome, i would remind them that these are the resources of european taxpayers, of european citizens, and that certain rules and a certain degree of caution in their handling are simply necessary.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the european union has been discussing how to get closer to its citizens for years. the recipe for solving this problem is very simple. european policies must respond to the demands and needs of those they directly affect, and it is cities and towns that are a major force in the european union that are at the forefront. i would remind you that today there are more than 73 000 local authorities in an enlarged europe, and it is their representatives who are the first to feel the reactions of the citizens of the union and the first to have to deal with the concrete consequences of what we are planning in the european institutions and in government posts. when we discuss urban policy, this thesis is doubly valid. the first to be addressed should always be the mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors. i think we can all agree that it is almost impossible to have a discussion with all the local authorities, given the number of them. but we can easily discuss their associations. for example, in the czech republic, there is a union of towns and municipalities, which brings together municipalities in which almost three quarters of the population of the czech republic live. the association provides a platform for local authorities to discuss with the government on the basis of a recently concluded cooperation agreement. under this agreement, the government must also provide a commentary page for any newly proposed policy affecting municipalities and subsequently discuss the comments with the municipalities. a similar dialogue is needed on the european union. national associations of local authorities are grouped into european associations. for example, here in brussels, a few dozen metres from the european parliament, the council of european municipalities and regions is based. so i say let's harness the potential of these umbrella organizations and work more with them. in the field of urban policy, we have the first opportunity to discuss the role of cities in the new form of structural policy for the years 2007 to 2013. ladies and gentlemen, it is symbolic that we are discussing the urban dimension of the european union at the same time as the european week of regions and cities is taking place in brussels. i would therefore like to thank the committee of the regions and the european commission for supporting this initiative, which also involves cities. but real dialogue means having enough time and space for our partners to really contribute to the discussion, so that we can really use their input to improve the quality of the regulations and measures we are working on. in conclusion, let me express my gratitude to mr beaupuy for his work on this initiative, which i believe really takes into account the needs of european cities and towns.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the current debate is focusing on a topic that is supported across the political spectrum by representatives of all the relevant parliamentary committees. this is because most of us understand that the proposed integrated action programme is one of the necessary steps to contribute to the development of the european union as a mature knowledge-based society with sustainable economic growth, more and better jobs, greater cohesion and culture. however, i must stress that in order to ensure the effective functioning of the lifelong learning system, i consider it essential that each member state develops its own national lifelong learning strategy. the financial instruments we are discussing today are and will be necessary to achieve this. these instruments are of course indispensable for the successful implementation of the different parts of the action programme and i therefore fully support the rapporteur's call for increased funding for this area. one of the many reasons to support this proposal is to ensure individual mobility of secondary school students and adult students by introducing new types of mobility in the comenius and grundvik sub-programmes or new possibilities for granting non-financial contributions in the framework of the project. for those who prepare lifelong learning programmes and use their financial instruments, there will certainly be the benefit of the associated administrative simplification, which is why i support the proposal to simplify the administration in proportion to the grant amount. education is identified in the key documents of the european union as a crucial component of future prosperity and growth, but without sufficient funding, these objectives will not be met and will remain on paper, as in many member states. thank you for your work, madam correspondent.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the political aspects of the problem have been dealt with before me, so let me make a few comments from the point of view of a trade unionist from a newly acceded country. first of all, i would like to note the words of french president chirac that commissioner mccreevy has squandered the opportunity to keep his mouth shut and is reaping the consequences of his actions. do unions have the right to act when they feel their members' interests are threatened? i'm sure you do. there's a lot of uncertainty in this whole case. there is talk of dumping wages of sek 35 to 45 an hour, then there are reports of compliance with the swedish minimum wage of sek 109 an hour, there is talk of violation of certain articles of the treaty establishing the european community, there is criticism of the swedish labour law model. has the swedish labour inspectorate acted? all our countries are members of the international labour organization and have ratified conventions that give trade unions significant powers. employees not only have the right to organize in trade unions, to negotiate collectively, but also to defend themselves if their position is threatened. sweden is one of the three countries that allowed citizens of the new member states to work on its territory almost immediately after joining the european union, without any transitional arrangements. all he asks is that we follow his rules and customs. to blame sweden for trying to seal off its labour market is outrageous. it would be sad to interpret the whole case as an attack by sweden on the employees of the new member countries. we, the czech trade unionists, have always held the view that foreigners working for us must have the same salaries and the same status as our citizens and the obligations that come with it. unfortunately, we haven't always been able to stand up to cases of blatant violation of our czech rules. when the commission talks about the need to adopt the services directive, it assures us that the posting of workers directive, which is intended to prevent social dumping by its provisions, will remain in force. let us therefore ensure that the directive on posting of workers does not remain on paper in our countries. and in conclusion, i would like to remind you that the occupation strike is one of the most effective weapons of the trade unions. i am convinced that the swedish colleagues used it after a mature consideration.
i do not know whether mr horáček was talking about the situation in the old countries of the european union or the situation in romania and bulgaria. the european union is nominally based on a number of fundamental principles, including the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, but perhaps even more important are the european social model, non-interference in the internal affairs of the member states, solidarity and, last but not least, the emphasis on the environment. the fundamental question in enlargement with romania and bulgaria is whether we really want to accept these countries as equal members of the club of 27 member states. aside from the real equality of the citizens of the new countries, which is not something that will be declared on the day of accession to the european union but a broader perspective of progress, as we can see from the reports that have been presented, one of the most important values that is often called into question today is the european social model. i consider any bolkenstein-type effort to liberalize social values to be completely unsatisfactory, not only for me, but also as the reactions to commissioner mccreevy's speech in sweden today have shown. the low social standards of some of the new member states cannot be allowed to be used as a scapegoat for the social gains made in the advanced countries. i am aware that the welfare state and respect for environmental standards are among the core values of the european union, values which this community places above the quality of the foundations of society, above models in which these values are not recognised and where unbridled liberalism prevails over social cohesion. it is our duty to help the new member states to obtain the most favourable conditions and to negotiate with romania and bulgaria appropriate transitional periods when they join the community, not to constantly note the problems we have in our own countries with those who are joining. we czechs have a particularly traditional, good and friendly relationship with you, dear friends, and we support your entry, since 1 january 2007. welcome back to the european union, my friends.
mr president, i am not a football fan so i am probably not good at football rules, but i take it as my personal political duty, as a member of the european parliament from the czech republic, to add some comments on the subject of bulgaria and romania. first, regarding the findings on political criteria, in my opinion the report should give necessary public administration reform, prosecution of high-level corruption and the fight against trafficking in human beings a lower profile. all the members of the public in this chamber observing the debate must believe that bulgaria and romania are countries totally based on corruption, which is obviously not true. in my opinion we should do something about our european public administration reform and almost legendary eu red tape. i recommend that the high-level corruption wording, as used in the report, be only used in a very careful and limited way. the part of the report concerning economic criteria is exceptionally sensitive. when we compare economic performance in the eurozone and the economic performance of bulgaria and romania, we can only envy their courage in undergoing deep economic reforms with stunning results. however, what is worth mentioning in the reform is the labour market. unfortunately that is not so much a debate about romania and bulgaria as a profound debate about the unwillingness of the western european labour markets to open up to the free movement of labour from eastern and central europe. in my opinion, that is a message for the citizens here in the visitors’ gallery: the european union does not have the keys to europe.
ladies and gentlemen, let me first welcome my fellow observers in the european parliament from romania and bulgaria. my social democratic party, which i represent here, has always supported the accession of these two countries to the european union, as the votes in this parliament have shown, and i believe it will continue to support the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union in 2007. we are convinced that this is a continuation of the historic process of gradually extending the zone of peace, prosperity and stability to the eastern parts of the european continent. the european commission report we are discussing here today is, in my view, very balanced and i would like to thank the commission for it. it lists the progress that both countries have made, whether it's progress in human rights, civil rights, the political system and of course, which is undeniable, progress in the economic field. but the report also lists problems that still persist in both romania and bulgaria. many issues were discussed here, whether it was the problem of corruption, whether it was problems in agriculture including food security, whether it was border protection, whether it was problems in public administration, including, of course, the ability to receive european funds, to manage them democratically and transparently and also to control them, whether it was the protection of minorities, whether it was problems that concern, for example, the roma minority so often mentioned. i am convinced that the date of accession for both countries in january 2007 is still possible, but i would like to stress and i would like them to take this advice of mine, which is also based on the experience of the czech republic's approach, to their countries. i believe that in order for romania and bulgaria to succeed in this step, the cooperation of all european political parties in these two countries is needed, whether they are in the governing coalitions or in the opposition, whether they are social democratic, liberal or conservative. if you succeed in this, if you work on this, i am convinced that in six months' time, when we discuss the last report here, we will come to the conclusion that the entry of your countries in january 2007 is possible.
for the group gue/ngl commissioner, when i heard your opening remarks, i could not believe that at some points you were speaking to azerbaijan. azerbaijan is one of those countries that, 100 years ago, had a reputation as an incredibly rich country, and baku was and is one of the most important oil-producing centers in the world. it is true that despite the country's enormous natural resources, its population is extremely poor, there are hundreds of thousands of refugees from the nagorno-karabakh war who continue to live in refugee camps, and the state of democracy is well illustrated by the name of the state that i heard from a well-known traveler from azerbaijan, that is khanate. well, wake up to the democratic elections. in all our considerations, it is necessary to highlight the resolutions adopted by this parliament, including the interparliamentary group, from 1999 to the present. it is appropriate to recall that the caucasian states are part of europe, and it is therefore very important that relations with azerbaijan are further strengthened, also on the basis of the fundamental democratic values of the european union. particular attention should be paid to the application of minimum standards in the social and environmental fields. a fundamental and fundamental issue before democratic elections is in particular a correct environment for opposition parties and politicians. it is equally important to ensure access to the media and to guarantee freedom of assembly, not only by issuing relevant statutory or sub-statutory standards. it is somewhat surprising to me that the l-paragraph of the resolution mentions the nagorno-karabakh negotiations without mentioning the presence of representatives of the stepanakert government. in conclusion, i would like to support the text of the resolution proposed, i understand the complexity of the situation in the south caucasus and i am therefore clear that in a time of danger of extremist attacks it is not easy to approach democratic standards, it is not possible to abandon the elementary rules and procedures for electoral campaigns and elections to legislative bodies according to the standards developed by the organisation for security and cooperation in europe.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, azerbaijan is a country with strong historical, cultural and economic links to europe. azerbaijan is also a country with strong european ambitions. i was able to see this for myself during my recent visit to this country, whether in discussions with ordinary people on the street or in debates with political figures. for this reason, i also welcomed the decision of the european council last june to include azerbaijan, together with armenia and georgia, in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. i am convinced that this policy creates the right framework for developing mutual all-round relations and also the right framework for fulfilling both european and azerbaijani ambitions. the development and strengthening of the partnership also requires the sharing of common values, namely respect for human and civil rights, respect for democracy and respect for the rule of law. an important test of adherence to these values is the election in each country. i would therefore also like to call on the azerbaijani authorities, through this debate, to respect the basic conditions for the forthcoming parliamentary elections, i.e. freedom of assembly, freedom of expression not only for government candidates but also, of course, for candidates of opposition groups, and to ensure that the azerbaijani authorities ensure a calm and peaceful conduct of these elections. in the election period, as we've been talking about here, we see a mixed picture. on the one hand, we see some progress here compared to the previous elections, progress also in that there are more candidates in this election and there are also more candidates from independent opposition parties. on the other hand, repression continues, the oppression of the opposition continues. i am convinced that the course of these elections will also influence our future actions, in other words, if during these elections, and i will be a member of the observer mission, we can record a certain progress, it will also positively affect the work on the future action programme. if the impression is very negative, it will affect the work in a negative way.
ladies and gentlemen, we are commemorating the tenth anniversary of the barcelona process and we are also commemorating the changes that have taken place in those ten years, positive changes but also, often, negative changes. i would also like to mention one positive change, namely the enlargement of the european union to include the countries of central and eastern europe, because i am convinced that the new countries of central and eastern europe have something to offer in the barcelona process. they have fresh experience, for example, in transitioning from authoritarian to democratic regimes, in implementing economic reforms, and those economic reforms are very successful, but they also have fresh experience in removing the negative social consequences of economic reforms. all these countries also have rich links with the countries of north africa, whether political, economic, cultural, whether they are links from the past or even links and relations fresh. i would like to say that it is in our interest, in the interest of both europe and our partners in north africa, to draw on the experience of these new countries and to enrich the barcelona process with these findings. i think then, together, we will be better able to address the very issues that we're talking about here, such as migration, the lack of political reform, the often insufficient economic and social reform.
for the group gue/ngl. there are no colonies or their remnants in africa today, is the argument we often hear from some conservative meps in the european parliament. the reality is quite different. in the case of two enclaves (ceuta and melilla), colonization has not yet begun, and western sahara, the former colony of spain's rio de oro, has now been occupied by morocco for over 20 years. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to vote in the referendum on the future of the territory. let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that not only will it be necessary to agree to hold a referendum, but also to determine who is eligible to vote and other technical details. i welcome the decision announced today to organise a visit to this country by members of the european parliament in january next year. i believe that the members present should not only be aware of the reality of the desert area with large phosphate deposits, but also that, in addition to the representatives of the polisario front and the moroccan state, two other neighbouring states, in particular algeria, should be consulted on the whole matter. it's the only way to avoid a one-sided view of the whole situation. the african union representative will be interested. it is necessary to lay down the rules for participation in the referendum. today, a large group of immigrants from morocco live in this territory, and many people from the former spanish colony are outside this territory. there are a number of other questions which have not yet been answered, and i believe that the fulfilment of the requirements of the resolution before us can open the way to their being raised and to the solution of the problem of decolonisation of western sahara.
as a member of the committee on the environment, but particularly as a doctor, i would like to express my support for the new regulation, the reach regulation on chemicals in its effective form. as a doctor, i have seen many illnesses in my practice that are the result of exposure to chemicals, and i am aware of the fact that chemicals have become so widespread that we find them not only in cleaning products but also in our children. many chemicals have not been studied for their long-term effects on humans or the environment. as for the amendment that industry should not be required to provide information on substances in smaller volumes, i think it is a direct undermining of the essence of reach. at the same time, as rapporteur for the framework directive on the promotion of health at work 1979/391, i believe that if we want to put it into practice, then we must approve reach in its effective form. i am convinced that the path to health does not lead through toothless reach.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written statement (rule 142)
, in writing. due to problems with internal democracy in the gue/ngl group, i was not given the opportunity to comment on the joint debate on reach. i tabled a total of 52 amendments, and eventually there were 30. the expert public appreciated it. my goal was and is to achieve a balance between different perspectives. i actively speak out against the extremes. the envi opinion has the effect of turning against the lisbon strategy and weakening the position of smes. in the new member states which have had and have customer links with the states of the former soviet union, there will be increased pressure to substitute these imports with imports from western europe, which will bring additional costs. in the czech republic, some studies show that up to one fifth of jobs may be lost and profitability may decline in related sectors such as the automotive industry. i support the establishment of this initiative with a proper timetable. i also ask for the cost of testing to be covered by public funds, the only way to avoid the impact on smaller manufacturing companies in particular. i support the compromise reached in the itre committee. reach is not a matter of left and right, it is a matter of interests, of the lisbon strategy keeping the economic, social and environmental dimensions in balance.
the next item is the question for oral answer to the council on the draft interinstitutional agreement establishing a framework for european regulatory agencies by jo leinen and janusz lewandowski, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs (o 0093/2005 b6-0337/2005).
commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the bohunice nuclear power plant, we are faced with the fact that the newly acceding country has committed itself to shutting down one of its vital energy sources. the source is far from being out of service, has been costly upgraded and, according to the nea, meets the standards for analogue nuclear installations of its age. it is no secret that the commitment to close bohunice was undertaken by slovakia under a certain international pressure, but the government of the time was guided by the primary objective of joining the union and wants to fulfill its commitment, even though this is not beneficial for the slovak economy and will get into a situation where it will have to import energy at ever increasing prices. i think that the conclusion of the industry committee should be supported and also in the interest of preserving the competitiveness of the slovak economy, the proposed increase in the union's financial assistance for the safe decommissioning of the bohunice power plant should be approved. the slovak people should not feel that they have been actually harmed by joining the european union and complying with harsh conditions that many consider to be not fully justified.
ladies and gentlemen, i am categorically refusing to respond to the challenges of globalization by establishing a so-called globalization fund. it is just a dismissal of the problem and the populism of politicians who are afraid to tell the citizens the truth, that globalization is here, was and will be, and that it leads not only to job losses but also, and above all, to the creation of new jobs. the main thing is that it can be exploited, but only in a free market environment that is flexible and where it pays to work. european policies often contradict this reality, encouraging citizens to be passive and sometimes rewarding laziness. for 10 years, the european union's share of world trade has been declining, and the united states' share, especially china's and india's, has been rising sharply. this is the free market's assessment of eu policy, and the leaders of the twenty-five are responding again with redistribution, which may be a patch for the present but is by no means a cure for the future. i believe that rather than arguing about a protectionist globalisation fund, the union countries should urgently reform their labour markets. delaying these reforms undermines public support for free market policies and is a breeding ground for the growth of nationalism, xenophobia and racism.
ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the outcome of the informal european council meeting in hampton court, not the outcome of the six-month british presidency. as for hampton court, i am satisfied with the results and welcome the results. the meeting clearly identified six areas that are important for europe's survival and success in a globalised world. it's science and research, it's investment in our universities, energy policy, global security, common foreign security policy. if we look at the energy situation, for example, europe is increasingly dependent on one resource, now at 65%, and that resource is in areas that are very unstable, whether it is the post-soviet space or the middle east. we need a common energy policy, a common foreign and security policy, but above all we need money to finance these common policies. i would ask the british presidency to do its utmost not only for the new member states but also for the old ones, and to ensure that there is a fair and balanced agreement at this summit in december. this will be the greatest achievement of the british presidency, which we will discuss on december 20th. i believe the outcome will be positive.
the next item is the report by mrs karin scheele, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the introduction of humane trapping standards for certain animal species (com (2004) 0532 - c6-0100/2005 - 2004/0183 (cod)) (a6-0304/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will be thursday.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by raül romev and rueda on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the sixth annual report of the council under point 8 of the eu code on arms exports (2005/2013 (ini)) (a6-0292/2005) and- report by ģirtse valdis kristovskis on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction: the role of the european parliament (2005/2139 (ini)) (a6-0297/2005) and- report by joachim wimmeling on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the green paper on defence procurement (2005/2030 (ini)) (a6-0288/2005).
it was my personal problem if i thanked the previous speaker. i promise to refer the matter to the bureau for a decision. (applause)
ladies and gentlemen, we stand at a historic crossroads when it comes to overturning the long-standing practices of nation-states in the arms trade. the green paper on defence procurement and the future directive therefore need strong political support to break the taboo of today's closed arms market in europe. the aim is nothing less than to reduce in principle the exceptions to the general rules of competition which are currently enjoyed by certain national monopolies to the detriment of citizens. article 296 of the basic law allows member states to use and even abuse exceptions, so that the arms market is virtually closed, monopolistic and difficult to control because it is secret even where there is no security reason at all. the lack of transparency in public procurement, the fragmentation of research programmes and the lack of standardisation are all causes of the low quality and poor interoperability and thus inefficiency of national defence systems. there is therefore ample reason to liberalise the €160 billion arms market, also because most eu member states are finding it difficult to fulfil their obligations under nato's common defence policy. if the commission's proposal is supported by the whole of the twenty-five, we should expect cooperation between member states in innovative strategies, cost reductions and new business opportunities not only for large groups but also for small and medium-sized manufacturers and logistics equipment suppliers. however, for me and for many members, the essential condition for the liberalisation of the arms market is the binding and rigorous observance of the union's code of conduct on arms exports. my demand was incorporated into the text of a report to curb the immoral export of arms from advanced democracies to the developing world. this is a sine qua non condition and i ask the commission to ensure a high degree of controllability. i'm guided by a cautionary experience of a transfer from the czech republic ten years ago. i am also deeply disappointed by the council's disregard for this meeting.
thank you, but you will have to bring that up as an oral amendment during the vote tomorrow.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will be thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
ladies and gentlemen, africa, the cradle of humanity, needs development aid. the will to provide this aid is already stated in one of the first paragraphs of the schuman declaration. it has therefore been one of the fundamental constants of the european union since 1950. all along, the constant declarations and efforts of the developed countries of the world, which since the year of africa have been constantly addressing these issues - decolonization, immigration to europe, the need to build and maintain infrastructure, building water resources, rainfall, training and the implementation of rational agriculture based on plant production, reducing nomadic agriculture and a plan for planting forests as a major part of the fight against the progressive desertification of the sahel. today's resolution, in line with the experience of other less developed parts of the world, adds to these measures the development of micro-credit, based on the empowerment of women, the further development of education and health in cooperation with the un, and the objective of achieving as soon as possible 0.7% of gdp allocated by all developed countries to support the development of the poorest, and this is right. on the contrary, the transitional liberalisation of the markets of economically less developed countries, especially in services of public interest, as well as the privatisation of state-owned enterprises, have always had negative results. what are the measures we can recommend? i agree with that reservation to the resolution.
the author. i'm the author, but i'm also here as the vice-chair of the south asia cooperation group, so i'm also speaking for my colleague, the chair of this group, neena gill. ladies and gentlemen, the border area between china, india, pakistan and afghanistan is one of the most seismically unstable areas. it is also the site of one of the longest-running conflicts in south asia. the border in this area is not yet defined and secured by bilateral or multilateral treaties, and the armed conflict is still raging. in a situation where, especially in the part of the area controlled by pakistan which is virtually inaccessible, several million people have lost their homes and in many cases there is a lack not only of food and medicine but also of any connections, we welcome the efforts of all states and organisations to help the victims. it is perfectly logical that in the resolution under discussion we support the maximum liberalization of cross-border routes, including the restoration of the bus link with india. the preparation of additional bus routes linking the two border areas of punjab is certainly a positive element, and we are certainly backed by further negotiations on the interconnection of railway networks and the prospect of an agreement on the joint construction of a gas pipeline in the area. such measures may further strengthen the trust between the partners concerned. to keep the focus on helping those affected by the earthquake. the goal is to get help to those in need as quickly as possible. it is solidarity among the people of this divided region that can help to continue the path towards an agreement to resolve the long-standing conflict. here is an urgent appeal to local authorities demanding a fair distribution of aid. at the same time, it is necessary to ask the european commission and the governments of the individual member states of the european union to provide rapid assistance to the victims. the needs are already known and we all realise that, especially with the arrival of winter, the early giver pays twice as much as ever. thank you, colleagues, for supporting this resolution. i hope that we will return to the subject of support for a peaceful settlement of the conflict in this part of the world in our work and that the european commission will also report to us soon on the measures taken.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, myanmar, ah, this is burma. that was the reaction of one of my colleagues years ago to a press report about the opening of new gas fields on the shelf of this south asian country. the country is under both european union and united nations sanctions. interestingly, in his report, which we have received, sergio vieira de mello complains about the military government's attempt to enshrine the role of the military in the newly drafted constitution. ladies and gentlemen, you have not overheard, in 2005 one of the most criticized points in myanmar is the role of the army in the life of the country, detaining hundreds of people for their political views. if any of you think that this is about turkey or afghanistan, you're wrong. in turkey, we criticize these things as carefully as if they were the united states, in myanmar, it's about unsustainable violence, it's the same with ethnic minority issues, and we don't know anything about afghanistan. so i propose that we start accession talks with myanmar on membership of the european union, the creation of a free trade area, etc., following the example of turkey. that's not possible? then we're just a bunch of hypocrites measuring each other's meters. i'm sorry, but i'm not voting for this resolution.
mr president, i apologize, but the territory of afghanistan was never an integral part of kashmir. then it's all nonsense.
mr president, for clarification i will first read the amendment, ‘recognises the full right of women to participate freely in sports and encourages a greater participation of women in sport’. vážený pane předsedo, můj pozměňovací návrh je zpřesněním a zlepšením. považuji za důležité, aby tento parlament a evropská unie přiznali ženám v rozvojových zemích, v islámských zemích, např. i v saudské arábii právo plně se zúčastnit všech sportovních aktivit. doufám, že můj návrh podpoří nejen dámy, ale i přítomní džentlmeni.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12:00. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on the common position of the council on the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services and repealing council directive 93/76/eec (10721/3/2005 - c6-0298/2005 - 2003/0300 ((cod)) by the committee on industry, research and energy (rapporteur: mechtild rothe) (a6-0343/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday.
the next item is the report by pier luigi bersani, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on taxation of undertakings in the european union: a common consolidated corporate tax base (2005/2120(ini)) (a6-0386/2005).
ladies and gentlemen, some of my speakers have tried to create the impression that this directive is something that creates a police state. i don't agree with that worldview. i believe that this directive, drawn up in cooperation between the council, parliament and the commission, will help to safeguard human and civil rights, the right to life, the right to a safe life. for this reason, i will support the report in the vote tomorrow, because i believe that the preservation of, for example, citizens' rights to privacy and the protection of personal data, on the one hand, and the fight against terrorism, on the other, are not mutually exclusive.
mr president, allow me to use the debate to reveal certain unhealthy trends in eu policy towards the middle east. we all know that tunisia has a secure constitution. women have rights to possess, inherit, vote and divorce. islam belongs to everyone and cannot be used as a political monopoly for one political party. we all know that on the occasion of the world summit on the information society, journalists, defenders of human rights and lawyers were intimidated and heavily beaten by security forces. we all know about president ben ali’s long and complicated struggle with an-nahda – an extremist, radical, pro-terrorist movement which combines its influence with the far left and quite clearly threatens the regime and democracy in tunisia. nevertheless, we should use this opportunity to send a clear message not only to president ali, but to many other rulers in the middle east. we must firmly support every possible means to struggle and fight against islamic radicalism, extremism and abuse of power to explain and present the general truth to everyone. but we must not allow friendly countries, friendly presidents and friendly regimes to misuse our support to wipe out, kill and destroy a diverse, democratic and secular opposition. the drive for democracy must be based on local ownership and respect for local sensitivities. no respect should be paid to undemocratic practices in which human rights are abused, particularly the right of freedom of expression and criticism, the freedom to gather and to obtain information. we cannot deal with the threat of terrorism, with abuse of the right to explain the truth to everyone and with frustration until we say very clearly that every man and woman should be free to express himself or herself clearly, openly and democratically, be they tunisian, european journalists or tunisian human rights activists or lawyers. state monopolies on newspapers, state monopolies on financing all newspapers, radio and tv channels clearly contradict what we call the ‘information society’. this should be our friendly message to our friend president zine el abidine ben ali.
commissioner, i am very pleased with your words and i would just like to add that this report is very important for increasing confidence in our common internal market. consumer protection and the internal market are interconnected vessels. the analysis by my colleagues at the cpp showed that, under the pressure of the accession negotiations, the new countries have adopted much more modern, and in some areas even stricter, consumer protection legislation than the old, in particular the founding member states. it also emerged in our committee discussion that politicians on both sides are not very aware of this. but we all see that the fundamental difference is the level of consumer culture between the old and the new countries. citizens, as consumers, are not aware of their rights and are not able to enforce them sufficiently, because they have not been accustomed to demanding their rights for the last 40 or 50 years, so that information about rights and assistance in enforcing their rights, even by extrajudicial means, is the alpha and omega of the implementation of consumer protection, as rapporteur kristensen has also stressed here. citizens in new countries are also, for this reason, easy prey for unfair commercial practices by traders even from old countries, where they do not dare to do the same, where there is a higher consumer culture, e.g. restrictions on user rights for intellectual property protected goods or attempts to distribute untested goods from third countries and the like. in the report we propose to the commission to introduce measurable quality indicators for comparison, because we believe that it is very important for the protection of high quality, not only in new countries, to allow the public to make an objective comparison. i also want to join in the need to stress that consumer organisations are different from those in the old member states and that it is necessary to allow them to count the work of volunteers... (the president withdrew the floor.)
madam president, i am glad that the new state aid rules no longer include the shameful, targeted harming of businesses in the border areas of the czech republic that germany tried to force on the european commission. the original proposal did not establish a difference in the aid intensity on the basis of gdp but only on the basis of the fact that two different regions are separated by a national border. this highly discriminatory and non-systemic rule was replaced by another, let us say systemic, rule under pressure from the member states. the state border between the regions no longer matters. the problem was solved by introducing regions with a statistical impact of enlargement. however, this term is very misleading, since it covers large differences in the level of development of the various regions. for example, in the portuguese region of the algarve or the german region of linenberg, gdp exceeds 80% of the eu average, while in the czech region of the south-west, gdp is only 60.5% of the eu average. however, all these regions will be entitled to virtually the same intensity of aid, and i do not consider that to be happy, fair or, in the end, solidary. the new rules on national regional aid were also intended to strengthen the union's competitiveness and economic growth, which the commission failed to do, on the contrary. the rules on aid that had been so far fairly functional were diluted and softened. i am convinced that the new rules will not contribute to economic growth and job creation.
madam president, commissioner, i support the basic premise of the reform, summed up in the words: less state aid, better targeted. ineffective state aid distorts the common market and competition. i consider the text to be balanced, taking account of the needs of poorer regions and regions with a statistical impact. i particularly appreciate the fact that the commission has moved away from its original intention to reduce the intensity of state aid in regions neighbouring richer regions, in particular in the czech-german and czech-austrian border regions. these areas have been lagging behind for many years, like the areas adjacent to the iron curtain. i am convinced that the solution to the problems of so-called delocalisation is not the unwillingness of firms, and therefore i consider it important and sensitive that the commission has shown its approach to smes by proposing that in their case the duration of the project be reduced to 3 years, small entrepreneurs must be flexible. state aid is an important instrument of regional development, and the reform of the rules should therefore be based on the principles of efficiency, transparency and solidarity. i support efforts to reform the system.
ladies in white. dear mr josé borrell, president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, distinguished participants, dear mr robert ménard, admired dr ibrahim, dear european friends and cuban brothers and sisters living in every part of the world, the honor of being awarded the 2005 sakharov prize, shared with sister dr ibrahim and the hardworking and supportive reporters without borders, has deeply touched our hearts - those of the ladies in white - and those of the seventy-five prisoners of conscience imprisoned in cuba during the dark spring of 2003. first of all, i would like to greet a sympathetic representation of friends of the ladies in white from exile - and i say well, from exile - who are in the gallery, accompanying us. (prolonged applause) i myself am a lady of exile, because the real ladies in white, as you well know, are not with us today, unfortunately. we never imagined that our spontaneous grouping, motivated by pain and injustice, without political color or party or group organization, would receive such a prestigious recognition. this award is for us an even greater commitment to our cause and to you; an impetus to continue to defend the innocence of our loved ones with greater courage and to demand their immediate and unconditional release. the cuban government has once again demonstrated the systematic violation of human rights it is perpetrating daily against the people of our country by not allowing five peaceful and defenseless women to travel and share with you this award ceremony, despite the fact that all the bureaucratic formalities it demanded have been carried out, most of them unnecessary and incomprehensible, including the efforts made by this parliament and by european governments and personalities. that does not prevent the ladies in white from being here today in strasbourg, as are the 75 prisoners sentenced since march 2003 and hundreds of cuban political and prisoners of conscience. on the contrary, the whole world will hear your voices today and the echo of all of us. we will not be receiving the prize today, but like andrei sakharov, the eminent scientist and selfless fighter for freedom of conscience, the exemplary aung san suu kyi, the mothers of the plaza de mayo and all the other laureates in previous years, we will continue our tireless efforts to ensure that social justice, democracy and reconciliation prevail. in particular, we could join you with our compatriot oswaldo payá sardiñas, a cuban who won the prize in 2002. we ask you to visit us in our homeland, cuba, in order to hold a ceremony for the awarding of the freedom of conscience prize in the immediate future. (applause) you will be welcomed into our humble homes and we will be able to expose to you personally, not just five women, but many, many more, the cruel conditions, the arbitrariness, the intimidation and the repression that our prisoners and our families suffer. before concluding, i would like to mention, because of its special significance among the many testimonies and congratulations we have received, the words of former czech president václav havel: 'dear ladies, please receive my sincere congratulations on the prize awarded to you by the european parliament. their steadfastness makes them worthy of such recognition. i am convinced that it will be an impetus for you and your brave husbands, in the same way that the interest of the free world was an impetus for me during the darkest times of my imprisonment. václav havel is a politician. finally, and without considering it impertinence, or even impropriety or impolite, i want to announce that the ladies in white have asked me not to participate in the protocol lunch you will be offering next. this empty chair policy is only intended to be a symbolic gesture, a protest against the cuban dictatorship and a denunciation to the world of the absence of those who are legitimately the recipients of the prize. i hope you can understand and apologize for such a loud absence. we thank you once again for your recognition of us, the "wives, mothers, daughters, sisters and aunts, representatives of the cuban people" and we reiterate our conviction that there are no impossible causes when they are inspired by reason, reconciliation and love. all voices, united in diversity, for the right to freedom of conscience. signed by: laura poyán, wife of héctor maceda; miriam leyva, wife of óscar espinosa chepe; berta soler, wife of ángel moya; loida valdés, wife of alfredo felipe fuentes; julia núñez, wife of adolfo fernández saíz. the signature of the signatory is the following: the european union is a party to the convention on the rights of the child. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
mr president, political group chairmen, honourable members of this beautiful parliament, my friends from lawyers without borders in france, staff of the parliament – especially the protocol service, who have provided me with guidance since i arrived; i would like to mention ursula bausch and my guide; members of the press, ladies and gentlemen: ever since our arrival on monday we have been warmly welcomed by all of you. we started with the committee on foreign affairs, which afforded us the opportunity of being heard by all the political groups. we are very grateful for this opportunity. we were able to explain our work and answer questions about what the european union and european parliament can do for us. we want to assure you that, following this ceremony, we will be willing to discuss any specific issues you wish to bring up with us, at any time, regarding the projects or programmes in our regions or constituencies with the appropriate committees and think-tanks. in some of the committees and groups, i mentioned the strategies we used in the defence of the woman sentenced to death under the islamic religious law of sharia in nigeria, and i will continue on that subject now. i shall then try to read my three-minute speech, as i have been advised. let me turn now to our strategy. our strategy was to understand the dynamics of the islamic law of sharia. we tried to understand the dynamics of the mullahs, the religious leaders. we tried to understand the dynamics of the culture and the values of our people and, above all, we tried to understand the dynamics of the society in which we operate. we were focused and we stayed focused. the press asked us questions such as, ‘is it islam versus the west, or perhaps a clash of civilisations?’. we do not know. we knew, however, that a woman had been sentenced to death by stoning and that we were using the instrument of the law to ensure her freedom. that is what we knew. we paid attention to the detail around us, but were flexible with regard to society’s perception of what we were doing. we acted locally, but we thought globally. (applause) lawyers without borders from canada and france gave us support, and every time we went to court we had a plan. we also had a back-up plan, just in case. we did not tell the media, which had given us huge coverage, what they wanted to hear. we told them what we wanted them to know. we were aware of the views around us and the accusations, verbal attacks and threats, but we stayed focused. i will share with you today our safety strategy. of course we had many threats and we had to take care of ourselves so that we did not get killed. we did not travel to court in the same car. at times, we would take our public car then switch to our personal car and we sometimes took public transport. we never travelled in the same car twice, because we knew we were being monitored. we never dress the same way twice. we never take the same route twice, if we can avoid it. more importantly, however, it was necessary to engage with the fundamentalists. we engaged with the extremists, and i will try to illustrate that with a brief story. i was interviewed by a bbc reporter, who came from london but interviewed me in the local language, hausa. he asked me whether stoning to death was in the koran. my response was simply that i did not think so. it was played repeatedly over the radio, and the mullahs decided to answer me via the radio. they said i was anti-sharia and anti-islam. that meant that i had committed blasphemy and could be stoned to death. i was afraid, of course. i then called the reporter and told him i wanted to meet the mullahs. he said, ‘that is a very dangerous thing to do. you heard what they said on the radio’. the radio programme was not only broadcast to the more than 70 million people in nigeria who understand hausa, but also across the western coast of africa, where hausa is spoken in several countries. hausa is the second largest language in africa, after swahili. he said that it was really dangerous to do that, but i told him i wanted to go. he said that he would not be responsible for me, but would introduce me. he was kind enough to do so and the mullahs decided to see me in the mosque. it was a huge mosque, bigger than this hall, though not as beautiful. there were eight mullahs. they were sitting at the end of the hall and in the middle of the hall was a chair. when i went in, they beckoned me to sit on the chair. i did not sit on the chair. i walked towards them. on approaching them, i decided to kneel down and to sit on the floor and they said to me as i went to sit, ‘you cannot sit on the floor. sit on that chair’. and i said to them, ‘how can i, your daughter, sit on a chair when you, my fathers, are sitting on a chair?’ they asked me, ‘are you hauwa ibrahim?’ and i said, ‘i am’, never looking at their faces because that culture forbids me to do that. and they said to me: ‘are you the lawyer?’ and i said: ‘i am. but i am a foolish lawyer. i am a stupid lawyer. i did not know what i was doing. i came to you, because i want your wisdom. i came to you because i want some knowledge. i want to do what is right for society, but i do not know how to do it and i want you to guide me’. it is important to understand that this was my strategy. i caught their attention. they listened to what i was saying, but they did more than that. they said, ‘we will not publicly support you, but neither will we publicly oppose you’. and that was all i needed. nothing more. we needed safety. we needed them to listen to us. we needed to carry them along with us. we needed to engage them. this is part of the strategy. in all the 90 cases in which i have been involved, the strategies have not been the same. as you know, i do not take money for the cases. this is because i have enjoyed a huge privilege – that of education. and that is my passion. whatever my share of this prize, all of it is going towards education. as a result of this sakharov prize, i have started a trust fund to invest in education, because i think that is the way forward. (applause)now i shall read my three-minute speech! (laughter)i am humbled to receive this prestigious 2005 sakharov prize alongside this distinguished group of people. i am saddened that the ladies in white are not here. i share parliament’s sentiment, and agree with what the president said. i am proud to be associated with the reporters without borders. this is a gift and an empowering message to the voiceless, to the powerless, to the illiterate and to women. it acknowledges not just the women and children of northern nigeria, for whom i have worked, but everyone who remains unrepresented in society. this award tells those millions that the european parliament does not just hear them but that it supports, encourages and celebrates them. it is humbling to realise that most of us strive for the common good, for universal respect for human dignity, for basic human rights and civil rights. unfortunately, some of the provisions of the new sharia legal system in my country, nigeria, violate some basic human rights, especially equal treatment under the law. in spite of scientific progress, a woman in 2005 can be stoned to death for having a child out of wedlock. it raises the issue of respect for the certainty and supremacy of law, respect for fundamental rights, the separation of state and religion and strict standards for evidence. this law has resulted in the loss of hundreds of lives. the 90 victims of the sharia legal system, in whose defence i have been involved, are powerless and voiceless. they are illiterate and poor. the new sharia legal system in nigeria needs to be reformed. we need you to help us with your voice. it has to be reformed. (applause) our goal for the reform is a bottom-top approach. we have a long-term plan, a medium-term plan and a short-term plan. our methodology will be flexible. it will be responsive to a cultural system of values. it demands organisational and analytical skills, as well as creative intelligence. we must think strategically, coordinating and cooperating with donors, working with political leaders, building coalitions and encouraging alternative ways of resolving disputes. we will give people the tools to ask questions and encourage greater measures of political freedom and activism. we will let people realise the essence of the rule of law, not the essence of being ruled by the law or by man. to encourage this idea and vision we will build, without letting up, on the struggle and labours of our women heroes, such as the one this building is named after: louise weiss. we cannot afford to be infatuated by the progress we have made. we must continue to build on this modern approach, through advocacy and beyond. i will walk out of this beautiful and magnificent building feeling a greater sense of self esteem, having a greater voice. the european parliament, one of the world’s most important bodies, is behind me. most importantly, the plight of the poor and the voiceless, with whom i have walked free today, is gaining attention and their cause is known and supported. today, you have made the voice for humanity louder. i will return to nigeria with a deep sense of mission and will help redefine the future of the vulnerable and powerless. i will return to share skills within my country, and across the globe, with humility and passion for freedom and justice, irrespective of race, colour, sex, political beliefs and privileges. my ultimate hope is that, through the effective application of the rule of law, those who argue for truth and justice and those who work effectively to achieve a better community will change people’s hearts and the attitude that governs society and bring about the type of world envisaged by all of us. i have chosen a path, a path of equal protection under the law, a path to pursue justice, encourage and engage, a path to do good. i have found in all of you in the european parliament, and all lovers of humanity, the passion to go on. what a great day, what a great honour and what great people! thank you so much. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
reporters without borders. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank you for giving us this sakharov prize, to us, to the whole team - some of them are here - and to tell you how important it is to us. (applause) let me just mention one name, that of jean-marie cavada, who is a friend; i know how hard he worked to get reporters without borders this award. thank you, jean-marie. (applause) i just want to share with you, in bulk, some of the pleasant and more unpleasant remarks. we'll trade the pleasant ones and save the unpleasant ones for last. i would first like to congratulate you, politicians, for recognising the qualities and above all for giving a prize like this to journalists who, nevertheless, break your legs for a long time and whom you often do not spare your criticism - and rightly so. you are right, journalists are not doing their jobs very well, far from it, but to give this sakharov prize to reporters without borders is also to say that, despite everything, we know how indispensable journalists are to democracy, just as elected officials are indispensable to it. it also means -- let me remind you here, even though you know -- that if there is worldly journalism, there is also risk-taking journalism on a day-to-day basis. that risk-taking day-to-day is the 74 comrades who were killed in iraq, twice as many as in the 20 years of the vietnam war; these are the five iraqi journalists who are currently being held among the 120 journalists being held in iraq by the us military, and we don't know anything about why they're being held, what they're being accused of, or exactly how they can be defended. through us, you are paying homage to them. i think they deserve it, once again, even though we can be annoyed, and rightly so, by the behaviour of the press. (applause) i would like to thank let me quote one more name here, and i think it's relevant: it's the name of the last journalist who was killed. you know who i mean, gebran tueni. gebran tuéni, i'm not the only one who knows him here; he was a big boss, a politician in lebanon. this is the 14th victim of a targeted attack in this country in recent months. we must stand with the lebanese, and we must stand with the lebanese democrats. you know that through him, it is again democracy and the real independence of lebanon that are being targeted. i wanted to join you in remembering gebran tuéni. (applause) so, in summary, now, here are a few perhaps more critical points, and the award given to the ladies in white allows me to address them. there is still and always a capacity for indignation of variable geometry that scandalizes me. how can we not understand that it is scandalous that 24 journalists are being detained in cuba and at the same time it is equally scandalous that the us military, without ever justifying it, is detaining journalists in iraq. we don't have to make that choice. you have to be as uncompromising in one case as in the other. (applause) i would like to thank but in the case of cuba, i am absolutely astonished at the attitude of a number of people. when reporters without borders, as i was telling friends yesterday, denounces dictatorships in burma, north korea or laos, there is no one to come and tell us that we are exaggerating, that it is wrong, that it is more complicated than that. it is enough to say that there is also a dictatorship in cuba to receive tons of insulting letters from people who find excuses. (applause) i am not here to decide whether or not the american embargo should be maintained. it's not my problem. my problem is that there are 300 prisoners of conscience in cuba whose only wrongdoing is to demand democracy and to challenge mr castro's authority. that's all i've got! and that is unacceptable, whatever political position we may hold. (applause) i am amazed to see people who are willing to take to the streets here if their freedom is even slightly affected, but also to applaud exotic species of crabs on the pretext that they are exotic! (applause) i would like to thank another person i would like to mention, mr president, is florence aubenas, because you have been the very example of mobilization. you were extraordinary in parliament and i don't chew my critics, you'll see , you were extraordinary for florence aubenas. i've come here several times to defend her. the french, the belgians, the italians, the germans, everyone mobilized. but what an injustice to others! there are other florence aubenas, but they don't belong to the mainstream western media, they are not westerners. and in this case, we have a crazy problem to mobilize you, to mobilize the press, and sometimes even to mobilize us, as if there were two weights and two measures, as if there were lives that were worth more than others, as if there were freedoms that affect us and other freedoms that do not affect us. it's got to stop. we cannot be credible, we cannot tell people, we are democrats here fighting for democracy, if we do it a thousand times more when it comes to our own than when it comes to others, it takes away all credibility, including our human rights discourse. i wanted to tell you because i see it every day. (applause) i also wanted to tell you to stop this kind of third worldist bad conscience, to stop thinking that you are here defending western values, to stop beating yourself up every time and trying to find excuses for people who have none. the values of democracy that you defend here are universal values, they are valid here, in cuba or in nigeria. let us stop thinking that we have this kind of duty of memory to every child with these perpetual birthdays and anniversaries. we've had enough of this. let's get to the news. i don't have a guilty conscience about what happened in the past. i feel guilty about what's going on today and i don't do it. (applause) i would like to make another point, if you will allow me, about our own intolerance. it's so easy to defend the ideas of people who think like us. it's so easy to fight for people who look like us. but that's not what democracy is. democracy is about fighting for the right of others to express themselves, including those who will be a threat to our democracies in the future. that is the paradox and the difficulty that you face and i face. at reporters without borders, i often tell my friends about it i see dany in front of me , sometimes we go to countries where we defend people and i think they are scum. i'm thinking, the day this guy gets into power, my god, i'll be back soon. but at the same time, i'm thinking, this is where i belong. the difference between a certain number of people who talk about democracy and those who live it - and you live it here - is that we are able to say that, to defend people because they do not benefit from a certain rule of law, even if these people will be tomorrow dangers for us. this paradox is our weakness as well as our strength. (applause) i'd like to say a couple of little things to you. no, not all attacks on press freedom are equal. let us stop saying: "wait, i don't know how it was done in the past, the arrest of a conscientious objector in switzerland (when conscientious objection existed) and the 30 years of the gulag in the ussr, it's the same thing". no, it's not the same. we must fight in these two different cases. let us stop pretending or making others believe that we do not live in democracies. we are in democracies, we are in democracies. half the countries in the world don't have these democracies. to equate the problem of media concentration in our countries with the problem of journalists being arrested in china or burma is disgusting for the people who are imprisoned in china. (applause) it's indecent for them. i can say anything i want in this gallery, including about you. that's impossible in half the countries in the world, so let's stop mixing things up. yeah, there are things wrong with us. yes, in the information field, there are things that are wrong. yes, we have to think. yes, like you, i am occasionally shocked by the attitude of my colleagues and what i do as a journalist. but we must be careful not to say that it is the same thing, not to confuse a country where, in general, the attack on press freedom is the exception, with countries where the attack on press freedom is the rule. it's not the same god's name! (applause) i would like to thank we're not asking you to say "yes" to everything we say. i don't think you're in a position to do that. we are somewhat irresponsible because we are defending nothing but freedom of expression. you have to take into account other things, the economic interests of your countries and of europe, diplomatic and military interests. i hope - i'm sure - you're aware of that. i do not therefore ask you to say that the policy of europe and of this parliament is guided only by human rights. thankfully, that's not true. i ask you, when you tell us something, when you make a commitment, to keep it, to keep your own word, which sometimes you don't. mr president, you were speaking about tunisia earlier. but for god's sake, there is an association agreement with tunisia! (applause) i would like to thank you will tell me that it is not parliament that is at issue but the european institutions. what is the status of the implementation of this association agreement? there are clauses, you put them to a vote; you're the one who loses face in these cases. in that case, we are not talking about human rights. however, if we do speak up, we will respect his word and his commitments. you know, we need you. you are a great people - i said that to you yesterday, mr president - when you vote on reports and resolutions. don't think for a moment that it's useless. we're building on that. it's useful for people, keep doing it, but go all the way. speak the truth! that's all you're being asked to do. we've had enough of the lyrical high-flying. we've had enough of the tremors in our voices. we want to hear people say to us, "well, i can do that. i can't do more, but for that at least, you can count on us". i just wanted to say one last thing. i believed with others that we could radically change the world. i'm not so sure anymore, and neither are the others. it can be reassuring, you're right, but it can also be anxiety-inducing. at the same time, we cannot be satisfied with the world as it is, mr president. every time i open the paper, the world makes me want to throw up. i have a little girl who is four years old, who is going to grow up and who has a thousand times more chances than a little girl of the same age in ninety countries that i can name here. and this injustice is unacceptable. you know the good thing about human rights? it's working. i'm not saving my soul. i don't believe in god or the devil. i just believe that we can move, make each individual's life better day by day, and for that, we need you. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am aware of the importance of the directive on data retention which has just been adopted. i think that from a security point of view, it is a necessary step in the fight against terrorism and other serious crime. however, as one of the signatories of amendment no 41, i cannot agree that the principle of free market rules is violated by different countries approaching the reimbursement of the costs of data retention to operators differently.
bulgaria and romania will become member states of the european union on 1 january 2007. some of the terms of the accession treaty are favourable to these countries, others are clearly discriminatory in terms of the basic pillar. this is something we in the new member states know very well from our own experience. under other conditions, i would name the free movement of persons as an ideal to which access arrangements are far from being achieved. i am somewhat concerned by the us administration's efforts to build or take over military bases in the balkans and the continued pressure on the impunity of their citizens before the hague tribunal. here, indeed, the negotiations should clearly lead to the common interests of the european union and the new member states being given priority. that's missing from the news. on the contrary, i believe that it is time to start negotiations on ensuring energy security, especially in the supply of electricity to the whole region, by shutting down several units of the kozloduy power plant, as my green colleague mentioned. i call on you again, ladies and gentlemen, to help the new member states to join the european union smoothly. let us not allow countries with huge problems, caused by indiscriminate external pressure to privatize, to continue to suffer after 1 january 2007. let us remember that we are setting an example here for the other balkan states and welcome them among us accordingly. (the president withdrew)
i would also like to call on the authorities in bulgaria and romania to speed up their work and preparations for accession to the european union. weaknesses that need to be addressed, such as the functioning of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the integration of minorities, including the roma minority, are well documented in the reports by our colleagues van orden and moscovici. the fulfilment of these and other conditions mentioned here is, in my view, important for two reasons. firstly, so that bulgaria and romania can become full members as from 1 january 2007 and secondly, and i consider this equally important, so that both countries can continue to act as positive role models for their neighbours such as macedonia or serbia and montenegro. both countries, bulgaria and romania, played a very positive and stabilising role in the 1990s, when the war was raging in the balkans. i am convinced that both countries will continue to play this positive role and that they will set an example not only to their balkan neighbours but also to some small and small-minded politicians, especially in the old member states, who are beginning to question the whole point of european enlargement.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, democracy and freedom in russia are under threat. this is the main part of the resolution, which responds to the fact that it is not possible to freely bring any amount of money into this country in the future under the pretext of supporting the development of civil society. the second reason is that most media outlets are controlled by the government. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the duma will soon adopt a similar resolution on the european union. after all, the approval of the obligation to archive telephone calls, text messages and emails for the police is a threat to freedom and, consequently, democracy in the european union. in italy, prime minister berlusconi has control over a crucial part of television and the media in general. in the czech republic, the media sector is clearly dominated by foreign ownership, with 80% of the press controlled by two german groups. this is a clear threat to freedom of information. the situation is similar in poland and the balkans. does that bother anyone? i trust you will at least give it some thought and clearly reject the motion for a resolution. otherwise, the voters will think very unflattering things about us. or have you prepared a motion for a resolution against the monopoly of the media in the european union?
author. in connection with the resolution on the situation in ethiopia, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to ask the commissioner whether, following the ban on the flights of un helicopters monitoring the situation on the border with eritrea, the european commission has stopped any further donors of aid to eritrea. this is a gross violation of the terms of the ceasefire and it would be logical to take clear action. i understand that of the two rivals in east africa, ethiopia, for all its justifiable criticism, is the one that is closer to what we call democracy. i'm just wondering why the authors of this resolution don't ask for negotiations with the descendants of the former ruling family, restitution of their property and the property of the old family clan. the logic of the resolutions calling for this step by the countries acceding to the european union that we adopted today would require it. these resolutions, which we passed today, include a demand for restitution. or is it another straight double standard? we are not going to apply this requirement to bulgaria and romania, but to ethiopia, where its absurdity is too obvious. i support the resolution, but compared to the resolution on tibet, which requires his holiness the dalai lama to address the european parliament, i am surprised that the current head of the ethiopian imperial family and even president putin will not be asked to do so. would the european parliament be applying a double standard? i'm sure it's just a dream. by the way, recently in australia, lawmakers passed a law restricting civil liberties, which, among other things, allows detention for 14 days. commissioner, what is the commission's response?
