the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that i fully agree with what the president said about the unprecedented disaster in south-east asia and congratulate the european parliament on its immediate response to the question of the funds that the european union will allocate to this. i must say that the european union has not only been generous but has responded with speed and efficiency to this unprecedented tragedy. the mobilization was immediate. on the day after the disaster, experts from the humanitarian aid, echo, and civil protection committees were in sri lanka and thailand and helped coordinate, identify problems, assess and evaluate damage and the need for certain offers and better coordinate these offers. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and it is a member of the european union. i would first like to thank you, mr president, for the opportunity to discuss with you tonight the outcome of the 10th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, which took place in buenos aires last month. i should first of all like to say that the chairman of the committee on the environment, mr florenz, and seven other members were present, and their participation was very important, and they supported us, helped us, advised us during the negotiations, until the very last moment, i might say. on the last day in particular we had constant contact during the very tough negotiations that took place there. i have to say, the results were not spectacular. but they were better than we expected, especially the results we expected before russia ratified the kyoto protocol, that is, before we were sure that the kyoto protocol would come into force. so we can say that overall the results were positive. i can even mention some of the points from which this is apparent. the first and perhaps most important of all was the discussion on what will happen after kyoto, which, according to the kyoto protocol, should start in 2005. we have had a very strong reaction to this. the united states and some developing countries did not even want to discuss it. in fact, they did not want to discuss the possibility of opening negotiations in 2005. after very hard negotiations, as i said earlier, we managed to agree, following a proposal by the argentine ambassador, mr estrada, that a seminar on two essential subjects should be held in may. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a first step, i would say hesitant, but in any case, a first step to negotiate, to discuss what happens after 2012 about the effects of climate change. in this negotiation i must say that we had allies, which is an important development, many developing countries, such as brazil, south africa and many african countries, which were previously hesitant, but this time they supported the effort we made to get the talks started. another very important point is the agreement on a five-year programme for the adaptation of developing countries to the needs of climate change. i would like to say that we have had considerable support from these countries, which will also benefit from this programme. the third important point was some clarifications on the clean development mechanism. it is one of the mechanisms provided for by the kyoto protocol, which is becoming more important with the start of the application of the protocol and the operation of the carbon dioxide trading system in the european union, and we are going to have many applications to the executive office in bonn for approvals and therefore needed support. it must be made more transparent; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the kyoto protocol to include the countries of central and eastern europe, the mediterranean countries and the countries of central and eastern europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all this was discussed and we came to solutions and agreements. i think it was important that the european union presented the carbon dioxide trading system, which has now officially started to operate on 1 january. the presentation highlighted and confirmed the european union's leading role in climate change and generated a lot of interest. we had ministers from almost all the countries attending the trade debate and then we had quite a number of bilateral meetings with countries that have shown interest in working together, such as norway - a country which has a trading system in place since 1 january - japan, canada; the united states was also interested, but they cannot participate because they have not signed the kyoto protocol. this system is limited to countries that have signed the kyoto protocol. finally, i would say that it was very important that we developed relations with the bilateral contacts that we and the members of the european parliament had, either with the respective members of the national parliaments or with other delegations, which enables us to be able to convince the countries that are necessary to cooperate with us in order to promote the desired objectives for the post-2012 period, and in particular the united states, china, india, countries with which we must certainly find a way of consensus. in conclusion, the debate we had in buenos aires and its results, which are positive on the whole, gave us the opportunity to intensify the debate within the european union on what will happen after 2012. we have two choices: one was the council of ministers on 20 december, which reaffirmed the european union's commitment to a global warming of no more than 2 degrees celsius in the coming years and the need for targets to be set for the increase in emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. the second is the spring european council, to which the commission will contribute two documents: a working report on the costs and benefits of taking action or not taking action on climate change and a commission communication on the assessment of the strategies needed for the period after 2012 and what we will do until then. we are certainly looking forward to the contribution of the european parliament in this respect. i would like to say that the results of buenos aires, which have not had such good coverage in the press and media, are better than what was presented in the media. i repeat that it was not what we wanted but it was better than what we expected before we went there, so we can say that overall the results were positive.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already done so. i am happy to support what you have just said, commissioner. i think that in sum, we had a successful conference, although perhaps the numbers and the objective were not quite achieved. i would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the dutch president-in-office of the council, who, with the help of your activities, commissioner, has really brought together these three different institutions in europe into one team, with the result that europe, alongside the euro, can play an important role in environmental and climate policy at world level in the future. i believe that we are not only setting the tone in this matter, but we are also having a steering effect. our aim is to be able to participate in the decision-making process in europe - and in the world - on how we achieve our goals. the environment agency in copenhagen made it clear a few weeks ago that we were on the right track with our instruments, and you just mentioned implementation. so it was logical that our three institutions in buenos aires had an impact on the question: what happens after 2012? because this is the first decade of kyoto and our industry needs calculable data to have a legal basis for its investments after 2012. it is therefore important that we take further steps to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that this is all very difficult to deal with politically, but if in the future it is only industry that is to implement the kyoto targets, then it will be very expensive for industry in europe, but also worldwide. we need other shoulders to carry these burdens. that is why it is right, commissioner, that you mention energy saving measures in europe. it is right if you want to achieve greater energy efficiency, and we must of course also promote renewable energy with a certain amount of caution. that is all in my mind, and i hope we can move forward on this. of course, there were darker hours in buenos aires, and as a professed friend of america, it hurt me that the americans were really destructive on this issue. i was very disappointed. but there is hope. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would even go so far as to say that europe can learn from these countries, for example from california, in the field of transport policy. i believe that democracy from below will also lead to a movement in this area in the united states, and i can only support that. i would like to thank mr dimas and mr van geel, the president of the council, once again. they have thrown the european weight into the balance. the fact that the scale did not turn as we wanted it to was not our problem. but we keep fighting because we believe we're in the right field. i am a farmer, so i will use this example. mr president, i thank you for your patience.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. natural changes in the world's climate have been occurring for millions of years. a majority of the scientists quoted in these months believe that humans are adding to the climate of our planet, primarily by emitting carbon dioxide. they say it could be that that exact 3% of the total co2 that humans emit is affecting the climate on our planet. the young people of today and the generations to come are the ones most affected by such a change. so, with the current state of knowledge, we have to be careful: to use energy more efficiently, and at the same time reduce co2 emissions worldwide. this is also possible through more efficient use of energy and further development of renewable energy sources and nuclear energy. in 2004, nuclear power plants worldwide avoided some 2.5 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions in the global energy mix. this is twice as much as was agreed in the kyoto targets for the period 2008-2012. double that, ladies and gentlemen! but how resilient is our current understanding of climate change? is there any additional human-caused climate change at all? is this 3.5% co2 that humans are responsible for really relevant? how much is the climate affected by the varying intensity of the sun's radiation? what is the effect of the greenhouse gas water vapour? what other influences are there on the climate? is a possible increase in the temperature of the earth the result of an increase in the concentration of co2 or is it the other way around? we don't know all that for sure yet. many models suggest a man-made greenhouse effect. but they're still guilty of the final proof. as i said, ladies and gentlemen, we must therefore be careful and reduce co2 emissions as much as possible. but at the same time we must urgently invest more in climate research and give our support to those researchers who are not in the mainstream. we need a broad spectrum of opinion to be able to make the right decisions in the interests of the people as soon as possible and on the basis of solid data. because if we have solid data, we will be able to convince other countries to join us on this path.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that we are continuing our legislative work in this parliament on a subject which is actually a success story for the european parliament, and in particular for our worthy colleague mr rothley. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a pity that tangible benefits for citizens are hidden behind such technocratic terms as the 'fifth motor insurance directive'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the most important progress achieved by this amending directive is the increase in the minimum coverage from eur 350 000 to eur 1 million, the abolition of exemptions, the improvement of the system of service agents. of course, it is also a consequence of the single market that people are moving more and more, whether they are students, tourists or service providers, and we are giving them all a little more security when they cross the border in their motor vehicle. the security that they are covered by insurance to a considerable extent, even if they are elsewhere. the trump card of the previous guidelines was certainly that we created a system that was unbureaucratic, uncomplicated and simple, which helped to reduce the flood of paper. but we must - and i take commissioner mccreevy's request very seriously - examine very carefully again whether the amendments we have proposed here do not make things too complicated, bureaucratic and difficult. i think, for example, that it is pointless to include trailers in the definition, if on the other hand member states are given the possibility of excluding them completely from the obligation to take out insurance. i also wonder whether we should regulate things like prosecution costs, limitation periods, etc. here in this directive; it's actually about other cases. i would consider a central site as an information website for accident victims to be useful, but the collection of hundreds, thousands or individual accident reports on a website is probably not what the citizen considers useful and what really benefits him.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on sales promotion in the internal market, tabled by the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe and the group of the european people's party.
counsel. mr president, i would like to thank you for your solidarity with the people of luxembourg at a time of great mourning. thank you very much. i am honoured to be here for the first time in this parliament and it is therefore a great honour and pleasure to be able to speak on behalf of the council on such an important subject as the draft european constitution. i have had the opportunity to work with some of you in the convention and i believe i can say that the work that has been done in the convention is historic, outstanding and underlines the importance of the process we are going through. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done. the signal you all wish to send tomorrow through the massive vote in parliament is also addressed to the citizen because this constitution is first and foremost a constitution for the citizen: it is he who benefits most from it. it has been said that this constitution democratizes our union. it strengthens citizens' rights, in particular through the charter of fundamental rights; it confers new rights on european citizens, in particular by giving them the opportunity to take initiatives towards the institutions, and in particular towards the commission. this treaty confirms that we are no longer an economic union but a political union in the making: we are first and foremost a union based on common values. in this respect, the constitution is an essential step in the integration process. after the european parliament, the citizens will have a say: directly, by means of referendums, in the countries where referendums will be held, or indirectly, by means of parliamentary ratification. the council undertook to make every effort to ensure that this constitution is adopted in all the member states. it is now up to each member state, each government and each parliament to take this step so that the constitution can come into force, and i would add, come into force on the date indicated. we share a great responsibility in this respect, the european parliament, governments and national parliaments. we must rise to this challenge together. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the constitution before us today would not have been possible without the european parliament. this house has played a crucial role in strengthening the foundations of our common enterprise, not least through the substantial contributions made by members of this parliament during the european convention. it would also not have been possible without that european convention, which provided such a dynamic, open and innovative means of negotiation. the involvement of the european parliament in this unprecedented process culminates today with an excellent and well-written report, which sends a clear message on the benefits of the constitution and the need for its ratification. i wholeheartedly congratulate parliament, and in particular the committee on constitutional affairs and the two rapporteurs, richard corbett and íñigo méndez de vigo. the commission fully supports your resolution. we firmly believe that the constitution allows the union to make significant improvements. in simple terms, for the first time the powers, competences, rights and duties of the union are set out in a single constitution. the constitution consolidates and simplifies half a century of treaty changes, allowing us to move from 12 basic treaty acts to a single text. it makes the union more open and simpler to understand. the constitution modernises the institutional structure. it increases the powers of the european parliament and provides for citizens actively to participate in the decision-making process through a petition with one million signatures. we will have more democracy. the constitution sets out, in 54 concise articles, the fundamental rights we will guarantee to our citizens. for the first time the union will accede to the european convention on human rights, so there will be more rights for our citizens. these three simple concepts – more rights, more democracy and more openness – explain why this constitution should be ratified. we would certainly have wished to be more ambitious in certain policy areas, but the final result is the best possible compromise in the current political situation. i also accept that people have fears and criticisms regarding this constitution. it is not a perfect text and we should not hide from responding to these concerns. our latest eurobarometer survey shows that 68% of our citizens support the idea and principle of having a european constitution. other opinion polls show that many feel they are inadequately informed about the content of the constitution. your report has made a good start by rejecting some of the misconceptions and scare stories about the constitution. it provides a range of good reasons for the euro-specialists to be voting yes, but these are not always the reasons that will persuade a single mother in gdansk, or a shipyard worker in spain to do so. the ratification of the constitution is an opportunity to debate the kind of europe we want. i welcome this opportunity to remind ourselves of what europe has achieved and what europe stands for, as has so elegantly been explained by others. in the mid-1980s, the vision of creating a genuine single market seemed a bridge too far. and yet it happened, bringing in its wake an economic dynamism from which we still benefit. to cite one simple example, the fact that we do not have to go through customs at borders has dramatically reduced costs and delivery times. in a single step we removed the need for 60 million vat documents per year. today, the younger generation treat as a right the idea of a zone of free movement, in the same way that they expect the union to ensure a clean environment and cross-border cooperation on public health. today, in 12 countries of the eu, we have a piece of europe in our pockets, with the euro being taken for granted across the union and with new member states joining the queue to introduce it. finally, first through membership of greece, spain and portugal and now with the 10 new member states, we have helped guarantee and consolidate democracy and the rule of law across the whole continent. we must now turn to the ratification of the constitution. while we respect our different constitutional roles in relation to the national ratification processes, we cannot tolerate the debate being confused by myths or misconceptions about the content of the constitution. all of us have a duty to make available clear and reliable information on what the constitution does and the benefits it can bring. in so doing we must compare the results of the constitution with the current situation. lithuania and hungary have already ratified the constitution. i would, in particular, like to pay tribute to lithuania and the speaker of the lithuanian parliament, who is here in the chamber today. (applause) we must now start to show what concrete impact the constitution can have on the daily lives of the people we represent. indeed, there is no shortage of good examples in this respect. as i said earlier, the inclusion of the charter of fundamental rights is far from a symbolic innovation. citizens will have a catalogue of rights and principles whose respect by the public authorities – be they european or national – they will be entitled to invoke before the courts. the possibility of concrete participation in the functioning of the union is extended far beyond the election of the members of the european parliament. the citizens' initiative will, for the first time, make european citizens protagonists in the legislative process. modernisation of the area of freedom, security and justice will allow the union to respond to the growing demand for more effective european action in the fields of border controls, asylum and immigration. the same is true for judicial and police cooperation. the constitution lays the foundations for a single area of liberties and guarantees. the new provisions on public health will provide higher quality standards with regard to safety. the union will be able to intervene in a more effective way to prevent and fight cross-border health threats such as avian flu or bse. today, we cannot avoid thinking about the tragic events in southeast asia. the union is already playing a key role in providing humanitarian aid and contributing to the political, economic and social reconstruction of that region. the new provisions on civil protection, which entrust the union with the task of promoting consistency in international civil protection work, will allow us to make our international action even more effective in the future. we have, of course, already put in place a number of initiatives aimed at informing the public about the content of the constitution. the commission has produced written and audio-visual material, developed a website, promoted and financed information relays, and sponsored seminars and other public initiatives. the european council has supported our efforts, calling on the member states to improve their capacity for communication about european issues in the context of the ratification of the constitution. it is now time to move up a gear. i seize this occasion to call on you to examine the possibility of putting in place joint communication initiatives with us that can maximise the impact of our initiatives. i refer, in particular, to the possibility of organising media events at both european and national level during a 'european week', around 9 may 2005. in the meantime the commission will not refrain from developing other ideas that can assist the member states in drawing up and implementing their national communication strategies. i can also assure you that the commissioners themselves will be active in the debate on the constitution and the future of europe. securing the ratification of the constitutional treaty is the main concern for the member states and for the european institutions. however, while we do not intend to anticipate application of the constitution, we must also devote some effort to ensuring a smooth entry into force of the constitution once the ratification procedures have been successfully finalised. that is why we need to open discussions on preparing for implementation of the current provisions. the commission has been engaged in this process from the start. we are proud of the text of the constitution and will do our utmost to ensure that it sees the light of day. i remain committed to dialogue with the european parliament. our work will not stop today. in fact it is only just starting. i look forward to debating these issues in more detail with the constitutional affairs committee and joining you on different platforms to present our case. in conclusion, i return to my three simple concepts: more rights, more democracy and more openness. this year we will celebrate the 15th anniversary of the rebirth of democracy in eastern europe. setting aside all other provisions of the constitution, these three concepts alone underline why countries have joined the european union and why the commission will defend this constitution. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have come a long way, and those of you who were in the previous parliament will remember when we debated the treaty of nice in this chamber. many of us were dissatisfied at the time and we said that our final position on the treaty of nice would depend on what new method of reform we have in the future and what the content of the reform efforts is. the result is before us today: the treaty establishing a constitution for the european union. unlike in december 2000, when we discussed nice and the central european countries of estonia, latvia and lithuania, poland, czechoslovakia (now the czech republic), slovakia, hungary, slovenia, malta and cyprus were not yet present, it is a particularly fortunate circumstance that today, on the day when we are discussing the constitution, our colleagues from these countries, especially from the former communist countries of europe, are present. i think this is a great symbol of our common future on the european continent. i would like to thank very warmly my colleagues richard corbett and iñigo méndez de vigo for the excellent work they have done together with the constitutional committee and all those who have contributed to it. i would also like to thank the president of the convention, mr valéri giscard d'estaing, for his work, which has been criticised at times. but if he had not acted as he did, we would probably not have this constitution today, and for that we should also say a warm word of thanks to valéri giscard d'estaing today. (applause from the centre) we are the epp-ed group. the epp has 128 members, the ed part of our group has 40. i can assure you on behalf of the epp group that we will vote in favour of this constitution without any restrictions, and the ed group has the right to develop its own positions. a constitution is a set of values. this is the crucial thing, besides the procedures: the values that unite us. because if we are not aware of values, then there is no basis on which we can act politically. we welcome the fact that many of our values, which we also regard as christian values, have been taken into account: the dignity of the human person, the dignity of the elderly, even the dignity of children. i think it is particularly nice that the children are mentioned in the constitution, because without children this continent has no future. we also have described our values, the prohibition of cloning, and our principles of the rule of law, democracy, subsidiarity and solidarity. all of this is an opportunity for us to say yes. but i also want to say today that many of us would have welcomed the inclusion of god in the constitution, because it would have expressed human limitations. we would have welcomed it too if the christian-jewish heritage had been mentioned. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. but even though it is not in the constitution and every constitution is a compromise, of course, we say yes to this constitution because it reflects our values. it is also part of a constitution to describe the constitutional structure of the european union, and i think it is particularly successful that national identity is mentioned. europe is not a melting pot! europe should not become a superstate, but its richness lies in its diversity. it starts in our cities and communities, where people are at home, it starts in the regions. our nation states have their own identity. it is a constitutional treaty which also states that the nation states are the authors of the constitution. the european citizenship is given to us through our respective national citizenship, and this is how this subsidiary structure of europe is expressed, with explicit reference to local self-government. i think that's very good. jean monnet, the first honorary citizen of europe, once said: 'nothing is possible without people, nothing lasts without institutions'. this is a statement by jean monnet which is still valid today. if we do not have the values that are the basis of everything, and if those values are not finally expressed in the institutions that embody them, then those values cannot be realized. that is why it is right to follow the path of jean monnet, the path of a community europe. and, dear friends - excuse me, this is a term for my party, but somehow we are all united today when we talk about the constitution, without, however, trying to blur the differences - the guiding principle of the european union must not be intergovernmentalism, intergovernmental cooperation, in the future either. the future of europe must be based on the community method, on the joint action of the european institutions. for us, this means that we need a strong european parliament, which is a symbol of democracy, that we act on equal terms in all matters of european legislation, that we need a strong commission, which derives its legitimacy from the election of the european parliament and thus also from european elections, and that we need a council of ministers which acts transparently. let me conclude by saying that much of the constitution is a programme and has yet to be implemented. this includes article 750 on good neighbourliness, which regulates how we live together in good neighbourliness with the peoples of europe who have a european vocation - and i am thinking of ukraine in particular these days. this also applies to foreign policy, where we must not allow ourselves to speak with two or three voices in the future, but must act together. that is why it is not the member states of the european union as such that should seek to join the united nations or the security council, but the european union as a whole, if it wants to be a world player in the field of human rights and democracy. the european union as such must be represented at the united nations. there are many tasks ahead of us. i hope for our group that this constitution will be widely accepted, not only here in the european parliament but in all the member states, because this constitution is our way through the 21st century: for a europe of freedom, democracy and peace! (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the 27th of january marks the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the auschwitz concentration camp. the creation of the european coal and steel community a few years later was a direct consequence of the events of the second world war. the fathers and mothers of european cooperation had in mind that ultra-nationalism, fascism, the bolshevisation of our continent, which divided it, always led to oppression, terror, the loss of dignity of the individual. and that supranational action, that integration at a supranational level at the european level creates peace, creates dignity, creates democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the continuity of this history from the ecsc to the european economic community, taking the next step towards integration, towards the european community and then towards our union as we know it today, is a success story unparalleled in the world. because it has not only looked to 1945 to end this devastating war on this continent; the next steps were to integrate states which, in turn, had to cope with their own political developments in the post-war era. the next steps in integration were taken by greece, portugal and spain. in other words, the overthrow of the fascist dictatorships there and the stabilisation of democracy through membership of the european community was a huge success in the late 1970s and the 1980s. what we have seen in the 1990s, with the integration of the newly acceded states, was in principle the overcoming of communist oppression in a part of europe. the european union is a union that has succeeded in overcoming the fascist and communist legacy of europe through democratic integration on the basis of our charter of fundamental rights, the values it sets out. the events of the last few days, the helplessness of the people in the face of forces which they cannot oppose even with all the technology they have, show how absolutely necessary it is to transcend national frontiers and act supranationally. in the global village, the european union is europe's intelligent and modern response to the challenges of the 21st century. the framework for this is the constitution we are now discussing. our group will support the corbett/méndez de vigo report. i am convinced, and i am convinced, that the values enshrined in this constitution are civil values. the beauty of it is that you can understand them as christian values if you are a christian. you can understand them as your own values if you're jewish. you can understand them as your own values if you are a muslim. you can take them as your values if you're a nonbeliever. these values are universal and indivisible and therefore valid for all. (applause from the centre) this makes it easier for us to agree together across the gulfs that otherwise divide us in this constitution. but if we do, it is our common foundation for a democratic and dignified future with social responsibility and in social community, with economic prosperity. in the knowledge-based society of the future, this union must also - and this is what this constitution states - guarantee its social mission, the protection of the individual, the protection of each citizen against the dangers of this fragmented world. that is what this constitution will do, and we are in broad agreement here that we want and must stand up and fight for it. the only thing missing, and i want to make this very clear to our group, is that the european parliament does not have to be involved and mobilised. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft constitution, and the commission has been asked to give its opinion on the draft constitution. this is not a particular matter which we leave to the european parliament or the commission. no, the statesmen and stateswomen of europe must say: this is our work! it is not the work of the european parliament, nor is it the work of the convention alone. that too. it is the work of all those who have a responsibility for europe's future. and they must also make a public declaration to the peoples of europe. if they do, this constitution will find a majority with the support of the epp and probably even the ed part of this group. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have here a constitutional treaty based on the work of a convention made up of a majority of parliamentarians. and this breakthrough was possible because it was a parliamentary breakthrough and the development of europe was no longer left to diplomats. 90% of this draft convention then went through the intergovernmental conference, and i believe that this method of involving the peoples of europe through elected representatives was a crucial point for progress. not everything in this constitution is perfect, but it's better than what we have today. i think that's the key. this constitutional treaty strengthens the rights of citizens. the charter of fundamental rights will give citizens rights and protections. it strengthens the rights of citizens, because in future the election of the president of the commission will be directly linked to the election of the european parliament. the citizens' demands strengthen the citizens and the european parliament's rights are extended. this constitution has become more transparent because it creates clarity in the system of competences, because the council must be public when it legislates - at least when it comes to decisions - and because the clearer allocation makes the procedures more understandable. the insufficient but substantial expansion of majority voting has strengthened the efficiency of the european union, as reflected in other areas, such as the abolition of the pillar structure and the introduction of a single legal personality, and in particular in the substantial progress made in the field of foreign, security and defence policy. we have a europe based on values. the charter of fundamental rights, which i understand is very much based on the christian view of man, is - i believe - one of the miracles. it has already been drawn up by a previous convention. the miracle is that so many people can now base their decisions on such a common set of values, and that in future our legislators will have to constantly - and legally, not just politically - ensure that these values are respected. we want this to be a community europe, that was the will of the convention. we must now, in implementing this constitution, make sure that this will of the convention is also maintained and not changed by technocratic attempts at implementation. we have already had a field of practice in recent days, namely the foreign service, where, as we have heard time and again, attempts are already being made in the corridors of the national foreign ministers to challenge the commission's powers, and thus those of the community and parliament, in order to establish a new intergovernmental authority. the european union is also a community of europe in the field of external representation, as we see in external relations, development and many other areas of activity, and this cannot be changed by the technocracy of assigning a foreign service. i would like to point out to the council and the commission that we have made great strides in this matter, and without their agreement we cannot be very careful in this matter. this europe has a system of competences which makes it clear that the competences it has have been conferred on it by the member states and that for this reason this talk about a superstate is utter nonsense. (applause from the centre) the member states retain their sovereignty and any competence which is not explicitly defined as european remains national. in that sense, this constitution is better than anything we have had before. the opponents of the superstate must be in favour of this constitution, because nice is worse in its reasoning. that is the truth, and i would ask mr allister and mr de villiers to look at things honestly and not tell their voters and their citizens the wrong thing. this europe wants to pool sovereignty where we are too weak as individual states to do it alone. that is to say, we do not want to take away sovereignty, but we want to recover it for our citizens where we cannot act otherwise. even with the tsunami, we now say that the nation states can no longer help alone, because we cannot do it. and that's why it's about strengthening our people by standing together to have a chance of survival in this globalized world order. that is the purpose of this european undertaking, whose classic objective is to make war in europe impossible. and that is the objective we must not lose sight of. the citizens, the states and the peoples must preserve their identity. i want to be able to be angry as a german in the future if we lose a football match against the netherlands. we want to preserve our identity. because diversity is the richness. but that does not mean that we cannot act together where we are strong only together. we should make sure that the ratification of the constitution succeeds. it is not the national politics of the day in the member states and their parties that must decide how the ratification process is to be handled, but the historical moment, and this will show who has statesmen in its member countries and who is driving the ratification process. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i congratulate richard corbett and íñigo méndez de vigo on their excellent report. yes, this constitution is our baby too, and even if it has some flaws, we are committed to it without question. we want it to grow and thrive. secondly, the greatest challenge for the european union is not turkey's membership in 20 years, but the ratification of the european constitution in two years. that's how history will judge us. and by the way, not only the politicians, but also the peoples of europe will be measured by this. i have confidence in the wisdom of the people and parliaments. in two years, we'll have this constitution. because what happens if we don't get it? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. europe will not be shaken into a core europe and a peripheral europe. no, without a european constitution the european union will become a patchwork europe, confusing its citizens internally and disqualifying europe externally. the european union would be interwoven with axes and alliances of so-called strategic partnerships. the failure of the constitution would be a relapse into the europe of schemes and plots. this is exactly the old europe we do not want. the constitution brings to an end a 12-year reform stint from maastricht to amsterdam to nice and from 12 to 15 to 25 member states. europe can now finally return to the political challenges of the 21st century, and they are enormous. but we're doing it on a new basis. the 25 different peoples, all of whom want and will preserve their identity, who have been falling upon each other for centuries with robbery and murder and war and devastation, these 25 peoples are now inextricably linked in their political destiny. this is a process that has not yet happened in european history and in world history. that's what makes it so valuable that we fight for this constitution. fourth remark: for 50 years, the unification of europe has been directed inward, towards integration and the admission of new member states. in future, european unification must be directed towards the outside. europe is not a world power, but europe has the responsibility of a world power. and we must be able to live up to that responsibility. the 21st century presents europeans with enormous challenges: globalisation of the economy and financial flows, international terrorism, climate change and disasters, migration flows. a new world order is emerging. not in ten years, but today! europe is still in the world league economically. politically, we are a regional league. if we europeans do not act now, we will be out of the history books. first politically and then inevitably economically. we must not leave such a europe to our children and grandchildren. europe's response to globalisation is the unity of its peoples. this is our response to the challenges of the 21st century. and finally, one last note: the constitution sets two guiding principles for the future european union. the charter of fundamental rights is the expression of the constitution's view that the union exists not only to safeguard the freedoms of the market but also for the sake of the freedoms of its citizens. article 3 of the constitution commits the union to contribute to peace, security and sustainable development on earth. the constitution thus expresses that the union does not exist for its own sake, but has a responsibility for our planet. freedom for the people and responsibility for the world, this is where the identity of the new europe grows.
chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. the commission is not the american journalist jeremy rifkin has recently written a book on the european union, entitled 'the european dream'. i thank the president for having mr rifkin here this afternoon to discuss with us the future of europe and the european idea. this book is a brilliant analysis of the achievements and innovations of 50 years of european unity, which are truly unique in the world. there is nowhere in the world where you can directly elect a parliament in 25 countries, where a supranational court can rule for all citizens and all states, where we have a currency in 12 countries to assert our economic sovereignty in times of globalisation, and where we now have a european constitution on the table. europeans should be proud of that. you should really take great pride in what has been achieved. it is, however, striking that such a euphoric analysis comes from an observer outside europe, as the european union is admired and admired around the world: in africa - we have heard mr mbeki's speech here and we know what expectations there are of this europe - in asia - now in this disaster, where europe is helping in an extraordinary way - and also in south and north america. i would sometimes wish that there were less cowardice, less fear and less scepticism within the european union. we should be proud and not afraid of the project of european unification. we are a model, and the european constitution guarantees that model. there are some dreams that have already come true for europeans. there are other dreams we need to work on. as has been said, the great dream of the founding fathers was to bring peace to the continent after a thousand years of war, and the eu is the biggest peace project in the world. many peoples have longed for freedom and democracy. and i say again: the eu is the greatest project of freedom that has ever existed on this continent. for many people around us, the eu is very attractive and they want to join. but there are also dreams that have not yet been fulfilled, especially in these times when crime, terrorism and the challenges of globalisation are also eating away at the european social model. i believe that we can achieve the dream of prosperity and security better with this constitution than without it. these are the big issues that need to be explained to people everywhere in the 25 countries in the ratification debate over the next 18 months. we must convey the great dreams of europeans, the fundamental values, the long-term objectives of this european project, and we must not lose ourselves in trifles and details. a colleague in my committee once said that we should not count the individual trees, the 448 articles, and pick one out, but we should look at the whole forest, the whole project. and then you come to the conclusion that it is a great step forward, from a union of states to a union of citizens, from a europe of diplomacy to a europe of democracy. nothing is etched in marble, and of course there will be further stages of european unification. that's what you should tell everyone who's not satisfied yet. i thank richard corbett and iñigo méndez de vigo, who have put forward a really good report, on the basis of which this parliament is able to dialogue with our partners in the national parliaments and with the citizens of the 25 countries. i am glad that this parliament has a large share in the european constitution, from altiero spinelli's 'crocodile club' to the 'european constitution' intergroup in the last and this parliamentary term, in which many colleagues have worked to promote the subject. we are happy and pleased that this draft is now on the table. we must now do everything we can to ensure that this plan is not just on paper, but becomes a reality. we've already had two drafts on paper. this draft, this third attempt at a european constitution, must become a reality. if we vote for the constitution tomorrow by a large majority, everyone will go out and fight for it too. the friends of europe must not let themselves be deprived of this historic opportunity. we must not allow the adversaries to drive their countries and their peoples into isolation and political deadlock!
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not the position of the european parliament in the field of trade policy has been considerably enhanced by this constitution. the lack of integration of trade policy into the democratic control of the european parliament has always been the subject of criticism. this house did not even need to be formally consulted when the autonomous trade legislation was passed. in future, the necessary measures will be laid down by european laws or framework laws. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we should take note of this with great satisfaction. the council has not yet succeeded in making qualified majority voting a rule in the council. here the constitutional convention was further along than the intergovernmental conference. however, this constitution creates greater congruence in trade policy matters, as we have done since the uruguay round within the wto. this constitution lays the foundations for a better legal capacity for negotiation in the european union.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission has already done so. since the beginning of the common agricultural policy almost half a century ago, the european parliament has been almost exclusively a consultative body in legislation. the council is still able to decide without parliament, and more than half the budget of the european union is spent without any democratic control. the european parliament, and in particular the committee on agriculture, has never been satisfied with this. we have found ways of forcing the council to take a kind of co-decision by suspending final votes. we have also done a good job in dealing with crises such as bse, so the fact that we are in principle getting the co-decision is partly our merit and we welcome it. we must also recognize that some points are still in doubt. the council has reserved in a special article the right to vote on quotas, prices and quantitative restrictions, and this time without consulting the european parliament at all. so there is still a lot of work to be done in the future. we will have to continue to use our imagination to exert our democratic influence on these questions and on the fundamental determination of agricultural policy through the codecision procedure. the european parliament is also given more responsibility by this co-decision and i hope that the interests of agriculture and the countryside will be duly taken into account here in the house as they have been in the past. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unlike the majority decision of my party, the pds, and unlike the majority of my group, i support this constitution and i say no to no. (applause from the centre) as a socialist and a convinced european, i cannot in good conscience reject the first european constitution. it was born - and this is a first in the history of the european union - in a democratic process; as a member of the convent, i was involved in it myself. the following reasons are decisive for me: for centuries the peoples of europe have suffered imperial wars and bitter enmities. this must end, and it must end forever. that's what the constitution says. the constitution defines the union as a community of values. it is a comprehensive set of values, ranging from the highest good - respect for human dignity - to justice and solidarity. i share all these values and i want to do everything to ensure that they are actually implemented in their entirety in society. the constitution strengthens the rights of citizens. the eu is becoming much more democratic with the constitution - yes, it also offers new possibilities for creating a social europe. the constitution makes great progress in european integration and makes the european union more sustainable overall. the constitution is much better than what currently holds the union together legally, the treaty of nice. my decision also has to do with the fact that the left largely refrained from intervening with concrete proposals of its own during the constitutional convention, that it now rejects the constitution, but at the same time cannot present any real alternatives to it. that's not acceptable to me. i want a peaceful, democratic and social european union, i want a united europe. but this goal will only be achieved if we are willing to come together. i am convinced that europe would never be a reality if each political family declared its own standards to be non plus ultra. ladies and gentlemen, of course my 'yes' to the constitution does not mean that i am going to conceal or ignore its shortcomings, and i will continue to advocate for changes in the eu. i will of course oppose neoliberal policies and i will also oppose anything that promotes the expansion of the european union into a military power. the european union must be prevented - and this is particularly dear to my heart - from becoming a mirror of the us power projection and from potentially weakening itself economically and socially through armaments. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president of the council! what is the subject of our discussion today on the european constitutional treaty? i think that if we look at it in isolation, there are a number of points that i personally, my party and we as the epp group would like to see changed: a reference to the christian-jewish heritage, a clear delimitation of competences, a description of the geographical boundaries of this european union, the participation of citizens in ratification, because a constitution is actually an expression of popular sovereignty - that should be expressed somewhere. but on the other hand, this treaty brings a whole host of improvements over the existing treaty situation, and that is the comparison which the constitutional treaty must make. we are getting more democracy, the european parliament is being strengthened, national parliaments are being involved in the legislative process. we get a double majority in the council, no more weighted votes. there are individual powers and no more general clauses. there is a limit to the size of the commission, which will also help to introduce more democracy here. and we're going to get more transparency with this constitutional treaty. this of course includes the involvement of the national parliaments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think this is a very important point, also in terms of creating transparency. the council must meet in public. we are finally leaving behind the secret diplomacy that has shaped europe for over 50 years. i think that this means that we will have a european union which is focused on its tasks and not a european superstate. if it could still contribute to greater information and participation of the people, then this is a contract work that can be seen. i can say on behalf of my party, the csu, but also on behalf of my colleagues in the cdu, that we will support this constitutional treaty without reservations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european constitution, the european constitutional treaty, is better than anything we have as a legal basis in the european union so far. and it is a good, acceptable compromise, so that we as a group can really agree with it. the european constitution should be seen above all as a great opportunity to build a common european identity. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. we have enshrined common values in this constitutional treaty, and in doing so the old continent is also becoming something of a new world. because we define exactly what holds us together, and that's the wonderful thing about this constitutional treaty. for this sense of 'we', this identity, to emerge, it is very important that all europeans can decide for themselves whether they want this constitution. that is why we are campaigning for referendums in all european countries. the european parliament has already been given the opportunity to vote on the constitutional treaty, but not all europeans. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european citizens know that this constitution exists and, secondly, that they know that they want it after having studied it. so we should let the people vote for themselves and we should push for referendums in all countries. it will not be possible to organise this in one day, but at least when people are asked themselves, the involvement, the identity, the sense of belonging is greater.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. before the two votes we are going to take this afternoon, i would like to give the floor for a minute to the chairman of the delegation for the observation of the presidential elections in palestine, mr mcmillan-scott, who is also our colleague and vice-president.
we shall now proceed to the vote. in accordance with rule 131 of the rules of procedure, recommendation (a6-0001/2005) by mr james nicholson, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 laying down general provisions on the structural funds, as regards the extension of the duration of the peace programme and the allocation of new commitment appropriations (16064/2004 - com (2004) 0631 - c6-0252/2004 - 2004/0224 (avc))
vice-president of the commission. congratulations, mr diamandouros. we hope that you will pursue actively, as you did during your previous mandate, your activities under article 195 of the ec treaty. we know what a vital role the ombudsman plays, enhancing the responsibility of the community administration, as well as stimulating thinking on practices and procedures. i promise that the commission will continue to work actively and closely with you. the commission is also aware of the fact that citizens are making increasing use of their right to complain to the european ombudsman. the number of complaints rose substantially during the first ten months of last year, compared to the same period in 2003. this seems to mean that the rise in the number of complaints reflects the fact that citizens know about their rights, rather than any worsening in the administrative behaviour of european institutions – at least, that is what we hope. the commission is looking forward to improving its cooperation with the european ombudsman. we wish you all the best in your important work. (applause)
the vote is closed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i cannot agree with what the rapporteur has said. i would like to thank the members of the convention, and all of them in particular, very warmly for their work. as a young member of parliament, i am pleased that the contribution of the epp group to this european convention was particularly strong. i am particularly pleased to mention erwin teufel, elmar brok and joachim wuermeling, but i would like to express my sincere thanks to all those involved for their work on this important step for the future of europe. i am particularly disappointed that the council has revised the convention's democratic work in a relatively short time after its conclusion, in a rapid procedure, to its own advantage. i am sorry that the democratic character of the work of the convention has been somewhat damaged by this. nevertheless, i support the constitution and do not believe that it needs elaborate explanations, as the previous speaker said, but that it creates a clear, transparent europe that is closer to the citizens. i think - if you will allow me to elaborate on one point - that one aspect of the constitution which represents an important advance is that cooperation between the european parliament on the one hand and the national parliaments on the other will also bring us closer together with the national parliaments and we can see here in greater detail how the legislation for which we often only provide the framework is directly implemented in the national states. it is particularly helpful to have a clear division of responsibilities between the national and european levels, and the early warning system for the control of subsidiarity will also have positive consequences here. i hope, therefore, that through these arrangements for a clearer and more transparent competence structure and the early warning system for the control of subsidiarity we will be able to work more effectively and even better with our national colleagues, thus making european legislation even more transparent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am very pleased to see that this substantial report has been presented by mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo, and as a former deputy member of the convention i must admit that i would perhaps recommend to some people that they read this report rather than the constitution itself, because it is very readable and very convincing on the subject. i would like to address a word to those who have also been critical of the constitution. they warn against a european superstate, they denounce grievances, they speak out against past failures. i think we should make it very clear to them that this european constitution is precisely the means to reduce these grievances. the european constitution removes many of the things we all dislike about the real europe that exists today. this european constitution establishes a system of competence and the right of participation of the national parliaments. europe is becoming less centralised, less bureaucratic. it creates the full voice of the european parliament, and europe is therefore becoming more democratic than it has been in the past. it also strengthens the rights of citizens, above all through the charter of fundamental rights, because the citizen can directly invoke the constitution against european decisions. finally, this constitution creates a basis of values for this europe, so that it is a means against the technocratic approach to political problems. that is why the europe-skeptics should be in favour of this constitution, because only the constitution will change the situation in which we all want to make a difference. today is the birthday of alexander hamilton. he's one of the fathers of the american constitution. today, his portrait appears on the $10 bill. i hope that in 200 years' time, when i look back at the fathers and mothers of the european constitution, they will be remembered with the same gratitude.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a long-standing dream of this parliament and, in particular, of many citizens of europe is becoming a reality. we have worked long and hard for this constitution. we can be proud of what has been achieved, and i would like to thank mr méndez de vigo and mr corbett. as the shadow rapporteur of my group on the committee on agriculture, i can say that we support this draft constitution. the committee on agriculture has undoubtedly made a profit. at the beginning of the common agricultural policy in 1958, we were merely a consultative body. the amsterdam treaty is the first to give us codecision in the fields of the environment, consumer protection and food safety. the democratic deficit which still exists is now being remedied by extending the codecision procedure to all basic decisions on agricultural policy. but there are shadows. the council will be able to decide on quotas, prices and quantitative restrictions on its own. the draft constitution does not take account of the new objectives of the common agricultural policy after the agricultural reform. this is also a step back from the status quo and gives us work for the future. but also as a representative of my state of baden-württemberg i see very important goals achieved: the national constitutions are strengthened, the regions and local authorities are given more weight, and the principle of subsidiarity is respected. this draft constitution is the basis of a common economy and - for me personally - it is also very important that we get a common basis of values that binds us together. we have a task before us which is an obligation for all those who have responsibility for europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the european constitution and congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent report. the area of freedom, security and justice is the one which is strengthened by the constitution. it is a milestone on the road to a more secure and fairer europe. it is a huge step towards a europe of citizens. the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights, the accession of the union to the european convention on human rights and the simplification of access to justice have led to a massive strengthening of citizens' rights. we also have better opportunities to coordinate our efforts to combat crime, racism and xenophobia in europe. i welcome the fact that the csu members of parliament will be voting in favour of this. unfortunately, many csu members of the german bundestag, which has yet to ratify the treaty, do not seem to have understood the meaning and scope of the constitution even in principle, for they have announced that they will vote against it. this is another example of the double game that the csu likes to play: being progressive here in europe and holding the flag high in the outside world, but being pro-active at home. but that is the tradition of the csu, because it voted against the german constitution as early as 1949.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it was a long and difficult road to this constitutional treaty. some good suggestions have been left out. but we need this constitution now. it must be ratified by the member states quickly. the founding fathers, schuman and adenauer, laid the foundations of the european house. her successors have built walls, bought shelves, and put folders in them. by now, the inventory is piling up in the attic. the great task is to clean up this house and make it fit for the future, and that is what the european constitution is for. it is a compromise that brings greater transparency and tangible improvements for european citizens. the existing community law is enshrined in a treaty and makes europe easier to understand. the common commercial policy will in future be the model for the external face of our internal market. the reduction in the size of the commission and the new european foreign minister strengthen the capacity of the enlarged union to act. there are more rights for the people. the charter of fundamental rights, drawn up under roman herzog, is incorporated into the constitution. the european parliament is being strengthened. the president of the commission is elected by us. i hope that in future there will be leading candidates from european parties for this office. we have also influenced the constitution through the constitutional convention, and europe will not be a monstrous centralistic state but a subsidiary one. the handwriting and the motto of the strongest group in this house, the epp-ed, are also quite visible. unfortunately, we have not been able to achieve all the points for which we have sometimes fought hard. i am extremely sorry about the lack of reference to god and the complicated formulae for qualified majority voting in the council, to give just two examples. but i wish for all of us that this constitution is a foundation on which we can continue to build europe: a europe of peace, freedom and prosperity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my questions are directly related to what the honourable member has already said. first of all, we welcome the commission's initiative and i hope that the council will not block it again. i believe that the european dimension of this task is more important than the individual interests of the member states. that is why it is important that we find european rules. we cannot develop the internal market if we do not have european rules in this area too. it would, of course, be interesting to know what these european rules are supposed to look like. i have missed in your statement, mr frattini, that you take as a basis important regulations which already exist, such as the ilo convention. what role will the key issues raised in the ilo migrant workers convention play in your document? i would remind you that the european parliament has also asked the commission to take account of these rules.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to refer in particular to what mrs lambert said about the transitional periods. it is paradoxical and should be avoided at all costs that we should try to invite third-country nationals to the european union or to the european labour market for work purposes, but then continue to restrict the access to work for eu member states. there must be a balance somewhere. i am confident that such a possibility will be found in the course of further work. but in principle i would like to thank mr frattini and his staff for their approach to continue this, above all because work - and this has been my observation in many discussions with groups and stakeholders - is actually the best integration we can have for the population. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject. perhaps some of these questions could be put aside if we are dealing with a complex issue like labour migration on the principle of keep it simple, keep it stupid.
the next item is the question time with questions to the commission (b6-0001/2005). part i
question no 26 by jacky henin (h-0505/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: abolition of quotas in the textile sector following the proposal adopted by the commission on 26 october, quotas for the import of textile products will be abolished with effect from 1 january 2005. this decision will have serious repercussions in the european union in terms of restructuring of the industry and jobs. economic experts in the nord-pas-de-calais region already expect that 9 000 of the 29 000 jobs directly linked to this sector will disappear in this region alone. it is a human tragedy that will result for the workers concerned and their families. what concrete support measures will the commission take to preserve jobs and increase employment opportunities in those regions of the european union where the textile industry plays an important role, in particular through the structural funds and with a view to combating the displacement of jobs within and outside europe?
question no 27, by mr robert evans (h-0509/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: slavery in chocolate production the commission must be aware of the problem of illegal forced child labour in cocoa production. most of the world's cocoa comes from west africa, where it is estimated that over 200,000 children work in hazardous conditions on cocoa farms (international institute of tropical agriculture, july 2002). european consumers are faced with the possibility that some of the chocolate they consume may have been produced using forced labour. can the commission state what initiatives have been taken to ensure that the food consumed in europe is free from the taste of slavery?
commission. i will certainly bring mr harbour's comments to mr michel's attention.
question no 28 by mr bogusław sonik (h-0572/04) subject: the situation in poland subject: suspension of food exports from the new member states to russiain connection with the threat to interrupt and hinder the export of food from poland and the other new member states to russia, the european commission should immediately enter into negotiations with the russian federation. the opening of discussions should serve to facilitate, standardise and accelerate the checks and to clarify the criteria attached to them. the european commission's position that the problem of veterinary control by the services of the russian federation is an internal matter of the said states is outrageous. such a claim would constitute discrimination against the new member states in the internal relations of the union, since the member states are not able to decide independently on veterinary matters relating to the importation of goods from third countries. in this respect, a solution to the problem will be impossible without an agreement with all the partners. this situation is not unknown to the european commission, which has already 'supported' french talks with the united states on a similar matter.
commission. as i stated in my reply, the commission has treated this matter with considerable urgency, when we asked the council to give us the go-ahead and when we engaged in negotiations. the honourable member is correct that it imposes certain major difficulties on some of these countries and the commission will do its very best to achieve a satisfactory solution. however, i must stress the limits of what we can achieve. hopefully, with goodwill on all sides, the matter can be brought to a satisfactory conclusion in the near future.
question no 29 by mr proinsias de rossa (h-0515/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: services in the internal market there is widespread concern that the proposed services directive, in particular the provision on 'country of origin', could lead to social dumping and to increasing deterioration in the provision of services. will the commission now withdraw its proposal for a directive and start a consultation process aimed at presenting a more balanced proposal, also taking into account the need for a framework directive to enable the provision of high quality services of general interest/public services?
commission. the approach that i have adopted with the european parliament and others who have raised concerns is to have those concerns and problems put on the table and into a document. i would not wish to start with a list of the items i think should be removed. that would not be the correct approach. i accept that this is a very ambitious document, what we are trying to achieve is worth fighting for. people come to various issues in this house from various perspectives, with their own experiences and political and economic philosophies. what we all have to accept is that if europe is to meet the challenges of the future and keep the social protection model and other things that we aspire to and want in europe, we have to ensure that the european economy grows. standing still is not an option. the services directive attempts to open up this particular market. as i pointed out in reply to mr harbour, services make up the bulk of the european union's economic activity, therefore it is a goal well worth fighting for.
question no 30 by brian crowley (h-0528/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: lisbon objectives at the beginning of 2004, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive on services as an important contribution to the lisbon strategy. this proposal has generated a wide-ranging debate, with both strong support and vigorous opposition from certain quarters. what conclusions does the commission draw from the reactions to the proposal? could the commission explain why it has chosen to present a proposal with such a wide scope and why it places such a high priority on the role of the country of establishment of the service provider? why has the commission not opted for a sectoral approach? what is the role of the services sector in the eu economy and what is the share of cross-border services? what concrete results, relevant to the lisbon objectives, does the commission hope to achieve with this proposal?
the subject, mr president, is obviously of great interest to the whole house. i have received a great many requests and i cannot, of course, know in advance what a request is about when the questioner calls. perhaps you'll discuss it with your colleague. we have already covered this second part of the questions to the commission, so that questions 31 to 33 can no longer be discussed. they will be answered in writing, and then we will move on to the next block of our questions. questions to commissioner ferrero-waldner
question no 34 by mr luis yañez-barnuevo garcía (h-0506/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: education programmes in latin america after the summit of heads of state and government in costa rica at the ibero-american summit of heads of state and government in san josé de costa rica last november, it was decided to promote education programmes as a key to the development of latin american countries. is this also a good opportunity for the commission in the european union's relations with latin america?
commission. since the answer has already been given, i have nothing to add.
question no 35 by mr staes (h-0510/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: does development cooperation depend on chance? by the campaign are you leaving the decision to chance? europe not! the commission is telling europeans that europe is putting a lot of money into development cooperation. the declaration by commissioner ferrero-waldner on this campaign shows that the world is to be a better place, obviously first and foremost for europeans, and that development cooperation is to lead first and foremost to stability in 'near neighbours'. the fight against poverty is subordinated to this objective. can the commission state whether this approach, which seems to be aimed primarily at improving the security of europe rather than providing sustainable solutions for the development of the third world, is consistent with the development agenda of the developing countries and with article 177 of the treaty, and with the objectives of the united nations millennium project?
commission. thank you for acknowledging that this campaign is going to the right development goals. it underlines the key sectors of the external assistance policy, as defined in the development policy communication and in the development goals. there are seven elements to the seven priorities of the european commission intervention. one is prosperity, achieved by trade and the private sector. second, security, which is being achieved via justice and regional cooperation. third is freedom, achieved by human rights and good governance. fourth is food: food security and rural development. fifth, water: the water initiative protecting sustainable development. sixth, education: education systems and access to schools. lastly, the europeaid message – 'partnerships improving lives worldwide' – evokes the how and why of external assistance. with regard to scope, the campaign is reaching out to over 150 countries worldwide. it is establishing long-term partnerships, and its approach is to focus on ownership of projects in partner countries. priority areas results are also to be focused upon: there must be a demonstrable impact on people's lives. this campaign has really gone to the heart of what we want to do and comes under the umbrella of the overall goals.
question no 36 by mr david martin (h-0553/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: continued violations by israel of the eu-israel protocols will the commission consider suspending these agreements in view of israel's continued violations of the eu-israel protocols? the association agreement gives 'importance to the principle of economic freedom and the principles of the united nations charter as the 'genuine basis of the association'. the regulatory part of article 2 clearly states that 'the relations between the contracting parties, as well as all the provisions of the agreement ... shall be based on respect for human rights and the principles of democracy, which shall guide the contracting parties in their internal and external policies and which are an essential element of this agreement'.
commission. i can assure you that the commission will certainly do that, because just before christmas we had such a council meeting. this has of course been one of the important issues in the council so we will try to do our best to get both parties to abide by their obligations.
question no 37 by mr justas vincas paleckis (h-0559/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the new neighbourhood policy and belaruson 9 december, when the commission adopted the first action plans for the new european neighbourhood policy, the commissioner responsible for external relations and european neighbourhood policy stated that the aim was to create a circle of friends around the borders of the enlarged union. of the seven countries with which the first action plans were concluded, only ukraine has direct land borders with enlarged europe. the commissioner said that belarus, which shares borders with three new eu member states, was too undemocratic to be included in the programme. does the commission intend to take internal measures to solve the problem of belarus? does it intend to take into account proposals to set up a horizontal eu programme of aid for human rights and democracy or to broadcast radio and television programmes from neighbouring countries? is there any plan to establish an eu delegation in minsk and to appoint an eu representative for belarus? such initiatives would contribute to the formation of a civil society in belarus and would allow for influence in favour of democratization without risking a clash with the regime there.
commission. as i said before, we will have three workshops. the last of them will be in lithuania, which invited the commission to work together with some neighbouring countries on new ideas and strategies; on what can be done with ngos and others. i will certainly take up this suggestion in those workshops to see what can be done, but it must fit into the framework of the regulations that are there. however, we will certainly consider that.
questions 38 to 41 will be answered in writing, but i would point out that questions 39 and 40 are obsolete because they will be on the agenda for the sitting. questions to commissioner frattini
question no 42 by mr papadimoulis (h-0511/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: telephone tapping without a court orderaccording to reports in the reputable daily vima of 5 and 7 december 2004, a network of italian services has been discovered to have been tapping the mobile and landline telephones of greek citizens in greece. this is also confirmed by the document of the public prosecutor's office of bari (italy), which is reproduced by the newspaper. it was found that the eavesdropping network was set up without a corresponding judicial decision of the greek judicial authorities, with senior representatives of the greek police and the financial crimes prosecution service stating that they were subsequently informed that such a eavesdropping network had been set up by representatives of the italian authorities. does the commission intend to request information from the italian and greek authorities on this matter? is it aware of any protest so far from the greek authorities against the italian authorities' wiretapping of greek citizens without a court order? is it permissible for the authorities of another member state to intercept the telephone conversations of nationals of the first member state without a prior judicial decision of the first member state?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, you are quite right and this is certainly the right course to take. as you probably know in italy, it is the responsibility of the minister of justice, on the one hand, and the self-governing body of the judiciary, on the other, to act against judges who have committed acts against the law. i have certainly conveyed this request to the italian minister for justice.
question no 43 by mr claude moraes (h-0522/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: commission's annual report on migrationwhat is the commission's view on the reactions to the commission's annual report on migration (july 2004) which included the view of experts such as solidar (katrin hugendubel) and the ngo social platform that it is difficult to identify 'best practices' in the field of integration policy because of the wide variation in the situation in the eu member states?
vice-president of the commission. the issue of illegal immigration is one of the commission's priorities. as you have said, while we are preparing common european policies and solutions, we must also be concerned about the daily drama of people in desperation. the commission can and must act, and will act, to ensure that the fundamental rights of people entering european territory are respected, including, of course, those who enter illegally: the right to respect for human life and dignity is not a matter of legal differences. that said, strategic policies must be accelerated. we cannot take advantage of a delay to continue to allow an illegal influx, we must immediately respect the fundamental rights of people and at the same time prepare common policies for reception on the one hand and prevention against illegality on the other.
question no 44 by mr ignasi guardans cambó (h-0523/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: terrorismthe council framework decision of 13 june 2002 on the fight against terrorism invited member states to legislate in certain areas related to the fight against terrorism in order to establish common definitions in the light of the threats that exist. under article 11 of that framework decision, the commission and the council were to examine by the end of 2003 the specific measures taken by the member states to combat terrorism. these texts were finally submitted by the commission on 8 june 2004 (com (2004) 0409/final) and by the council on 12 october 2004 (11687/2/04/rev.2). both reports state very clearly and factually that the member states have failed to act and to implement the objectives set out in the council framework decision. the commission has no binding instruments to require member states to implement the framework decisions. however, in order to ensure the credibility of europe in the fight against terrorism, how does the commission intend to promote and achieve a genuine european counter-terrorism policy and thus ensure that member states fulfil their commitments in terms of legislative action?
vice-chairman of the commission . the commission will begin to explain to the informal council of ministers of the interior and justice at the end of this month the action plan for implementing the hague strategy. the action plan will be presented in may this year and i hope that it will be approved by the european council in june. the action plan against terrorism will contain concrete measures and indications, precise deadlines for the member states and binding obligations for a common policy of strengthening cooperation, exchanges of information and protection of victims of terrorist attacks. these are the measures which the commission intends to put before this parliament in advance, which we shall do at the beginning of february, so that before we formulate our proposal we shall be hearing parliament's views on the specific proposals.
question no 45 by mr bill newton dunn (h-0524/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: transmission and collection of crime data in the unionhow far have the commission's proposals for standardised criteria for the transmission and collection of crime statistics in the european union progressed? in the absence of such a system, it is difficult for law enforcement authorities to have a clear picture of the extent of the activities of organised crime gangs and therefore very difficult to deal effectively with these gangs.
- i'm not sure. we have very clear rules in the rules of procedure for holding question time. i have already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the main problem, i think, is that many of our colleagues ask for very long questions, which do not last 30 seconds, and we are often behind schedule as a result. i'll think about what you said. i would like to thank you all very warmly, and in particular mr frattini, for agreeing to join us in question time for so long. questions nos 46 to 76 will be answered in writing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 28 of the rules of procedure. it seems that the shameless spying on this parliament, which we had to witness in the last election period, is already under way again: yesterday i heard that at least one attendance list from the month of december 2004 was handed to a member for the purpose of copying - i emphasize: handed out - has been handed over to a member. i have two questions for you: first, is this information factual? secondly, if so, is there a legal basis for this?
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the six months which are now beginning include a number of important milestones which will determine whether or not the european union will be able to achieve the objective of ensuring a higher level of prosperity, solidarity and security for its citizens. many of the achievements that the commission can achieve in the coming years will be determined by initial decisions taken during this semester and by our ability to solve difficult issues and achieve concrete results. let me therefore stress, from the commission's point of view, the particular importance of this luxembourg presidency in the first half of 2005. the commission will be proposing the programme for the period 2004-09 as early as 26 june. we hope that this programme can be shared by the other institutions and thus become not only the commission's programme but the programme of the entire european union, thus anticipating the provisions of the european constitution and starting to work in the spirit of the constitution. it is luxembourg's responsibility to preside over the european council during this crucial period. i think it is a privilege for us to have prime minister juncker preside over the council during this period, given his invaluable experience as head of government, his deep european conviction and his known ability to deal with difficult situations. personally, i am delighted to be working with my friend jean-claude junker.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! we have the president of the european council and the president of the commission with us today, and i understand that the president of the european council will also be present when the commission presents its programme in brussels on 26 january. i think this is an excellent symbol of the ever-increasing cooperation between the european parliament, the european council and the commission. future presidencies should follow suit. we very much welcomed the fact that you were both in asia, in jakarta, to express the solidarity of the european union. but i want to emphasize: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. we must think about how we in europe, for example in the mediterranean, can take precautions by means of an early warning system, as far as possible. mr president-in-office of the council, we strongly support what you have said about the community method. luxembourg is a small country in size, but it is a grand duchy and therefore a large country. and the benelux countries have always had excellent presidencies. we wish you success! the european people's party also considers the constitution to be the top priority. we will have a detailed discussion in brussels on the lisbon strategy. the competitiveness of the european economy is not an end in itself, but a strong economy is always the best prerequisite for a good social policy. competitiveness means for us that we create more jobs in europe through growth and better conditions for the european economy. we are talking about social policy in the proper sense. we must not put environmental protection and ecology in competition with the economy, but we must find a sensible balance between the two. as regards the financial perspective, we wish you success and good fortune in your presidency. we say to the ladies and gentlemen who wrote the letters - in this case, it was probably only the gentlemen who voted in favour of the 1% threshold - we cannot continue to enlarge europe and then deny the necessary money, which is an expression of solidarity, when it comes to bringing new countries into the european union to our standard. we also need the necessary financial resources in the european union. if there is no regulation in june, how are we going to manage the accession of more countries to the european union? you have spoken about which treaty signatures there are going to be. we are pleased that reimer böge, a very competent colleague, will be writing the report for the european parliament. mr president, you have spoken of the stability pact. i am very grateful for your comments, and i can underline every word. the essence of what you said is more flexibility. flexibility also means that those countries which have taken precautions have more flexibility. so, in a nutshell, the less debt a country has, the more flexibility it has in times of economic hardship. but it also means that in good economic times, we do what is necessary to reduce debt, because we know that today's debt is always tomorrow's taxes. this is a burden for all citizens, but especially for the younger generation. (applause from the centre) let me turn briefly to foreign policy. you have raised a number of points and i understand that the president of the commission is in full agreement with you. the support for ukraine is only just beginning and must remain a permanent task for us. as far as palestine is concerned, we have now had the elections and we want a secure israel and a secure palestinian state. the role of the european union must not be limited to financial support, as some high-ranking middle east representatives tell us, but we as the european union, as an honest broker, must also make our contribution to peace in the middle east. as far as transatlantic relations are concerned, i wish you and, of course, the president of the commission every success in the new phase of positive relations with the united states of america that president bush is opening up with his visit. it cannot be that one group of european union countries has a certain form of relations with the united states and the other group has a different form of relations with the united states. we europeans must take a common position on the basis of partnership with our american friends. in this sense, we in the ppe-de group - as you have said, mr president of the council - stand with you with determination and passion and wish you every success in your presidency. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we do not think that there is anything substantial to add to the remarks made by mr asselborn, president of the council, and mr barroso, president of the commission. the commission and the council have also outlined the essential steps that need to be taken. we can say on behalf of the socialist group in this house that we support all these initiatives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that everyone - including my predecessor - has made it clear that, as far as parliament is concerned, both the financial resources and the organisational measures are guaranteed. so i can confine myself to a few basic remarks about this disaster, which has made it clear that we live in a global village and that in the global world in which we live, solidarity is becoming a matter of course, and that is solidarity of a supranational kind. it is therefore important that we should talk about this again and realise that the union itself, alongside the member states, has a crucial role to play, because the european union is the expression of the willingness of europeans to act supranationally. the fact that this international action in the form of the european union also leads to intercontinental action is a necessary consequence of the fact that such a disaster no longer affects the people living there regionally, but all the people from all countries, including the european union. this requires new forms of organization, and these are emerging. this includes the proposal which the commission has put forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to organise financial instruments alongside national ones. but it is also clear that in a society of mobility, such as the europeans, consular assistance is indispensable in such a situation. the establishment of a common consular apparatus, which could be the precursor to a common diplomatic service, is therefore a positive aspect of this debate. i would like to make one final remark. the flood of information i have received in the last few days, including information on solidarity and the willingness to help, highlights one news item: a few months ago, we remembered the victims of the terrorist attack in beslan in this house. this morning i learned that the citizens of beslan have collected one million rubles, or 30,000 euros, to show their solidarity with the victims of the tsunami. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think we should pay special tribute to the citizens of beslan, who were themselves victims. (applause from the centre)
counsel. mr president, on behalf of the 25 heads of state or government who signed the constitutional treaty on 29 october 2004, i would like to express my satisfaction at the very large majority with which the european parliament has just expressed its agreement to this treaty. it is an important moment in the history of this parliament and an important moment on europe's road to ratification of this new constitution, to which ratification i would like to invite the national parliaments and the people, in so far as they can express themselves by means of a referendum.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was asked by a member of the convention when we voted on article 6 and i accidentally voted no. i want to make it clear that i am for article 6, i am for the yes vote and i am happy about the adoption of the constitutional treaty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make an oral statement. i think the procedure for dealing with explanations of vote is very unusual in this case. the report we have just voted on says: the constitution grants most progress in the specific area of the common security policy. this is the central point for me in my rejection of this eu constitutional treaty. article i-41 (3) states that 'member states shall undertake to improve progressively their military capabilities'. this means an obligation to arm the eu member states. in terms of foreign and military policy, the obvious aim of the constitutional treaty is to make the european union fit for global warfare. the treaty is intended to ensure the operational capability based on military means (article i-41 (1)); the constitution requires that we arm. a defence agency is being set up to monitor this and to implement appropriate measures to strengthen the industrial and technological base of the defence sector. i think there are a whole series of other reasons why the constitutional treaty must be rejected precisely because of this militarization of the european union. i wanted to make that clear in my explanation of vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the progress made in the process of european unification by the constitutional treaty is significant. that's why i agreed to it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in these areas, the commission is now empowered to take initiatives for the adoption of guidelines and action plans. in practice, this means: first, the political initiatives new political initiatives are created, and then, if necessary, the corresponding competences. the open method of coordination is a step towards the europeanisation of previously national areas of activity and a change in the distribution of competences between the member states and europe. this procedure is more than adequate to eliminate the necessary competition between member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i make the following statement on my voting behaviour: i voted for the constitution despite my deepest reservations, because it is an improvement on the current situation and legal situation. but i am saddened that this constitution contains no reference to god. it is disappointing to me and to millions of citizens in europe that the 25 heads of government and this parliament have not had the will and the strength to enforce this reference to god. it would have been good for a european constitution if the preamble had stated that we act in a responsible manner before god and man. i also voted for the constitution because it allows turkey and other countries to enjoy a privileged partnership in the framework of special relations in the long term, in accordance with article 57. my hope is that it will be possible at a later date to include the reference to god in the constitution.
in writing. in the member states and here in parliament, there is not only general agreement but also a critical public which is concerned about this text. our criticism is not one that argues from the narrow view of the nation state. we criticise the fact that the treaty's aim is to further militarize the european union towards global war-fighting capability. he is responsible for the 'operational capability based on military means'. the european union has a long-standing policy of promoting the development of the european union. a 'defence capability development, research, procurement and armaments agency' will monitor this and enforce 'useful measures to strengthen the industrial and technological base of the defence sector'. we are critical of the constitutional status of the principles of neoliberalism. the general 'objectives of the union' do indeed make a flattering reference to a 'highly competitive social market economy aiming at full employment and social progress, as well as a high level of environmental protection and improvement of the quality of the environment'. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the draft report does not share this view. he is completely uncritical of the draft constitution. the gue/ngl cannot therefore agree with this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by joining all the comments on the disaster in south asia and to concentrate on a few rather sober remarks. the goodwill shown by the donations from people in the european union and around the world is truly overwhelming. it is also very impressive how the entire globalized world is clearly involved in this terrible event. but we have a saying in germany that says: well-meaning is not always well-done. helping is learning. a major german newspaper today carried the headline: "the confusion of the many helpers makes the work difficult for indonesia". the way in which the european union has acted in this area will not necessarily lead to a storm of enthusiasm about the success of its work. there is another sentence here that reads: "if the omnipresent armies of the americans and australians did not regularly shuttle their freight cars back and forth, it would look much worse". there's a problem with that. what we need is clearly not just good will and a willingness to give a lot of money, but we also need an organization that will give that money to the man and the woman in a proper way. i would therefore like to support what has been said this morning: the european union needs above all a crisis management corps, something with transport capacity, command and control, and medical and supply units. this is needed if we are to help people in a practical and rapid way. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of europe. this is what the eu must focus on.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too, on behalf of the greens, would like to thank all those who have donated and pledged to donate, but i would also like to stress in my capacity as chairman of the delegation for relations with iran that i am concerned that the same thing will happen as happened a year ago: on 26 december 2003 an iranian village was destroyed by an earthquake. there were huge pledges of donations, but the funds didn't flow. these terrible anniversaries will be remembered by us and by all people. it is a question of the credibility of the european parliament and the european union to ensure three things: firstly, the other areas must not be neglected. secondly, when debt relief or donations are allocated, it must be ensured that they are not misused for military purposes. and thirdly, i would like to emphasize once again that we need - and this is part of the european security strategy - the humanitarian and civilian intervention capacity. we have already decided on the european civilian peace corps, it is part of our constitution. we should not reinvent everything, but take up the proposals made by commissioner ferrero-waldner to eliminate the deficits there in a preventive manner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the globalisation of solidarity is having an effect. on monday we discussed with the commission the possibility of concrete eu financial aid so that words can be followed by deeds. the encouraging thing is that there is enough money available. it is doubtful whether it will reach those in need. in the eu, people have donated billions. in germany, a single television programme brought in 40 million euros. those often accused of selfishness did not look away; they looked on when reports of hell in paradise were shown. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this includes the rapid reconstruction of villages, towns and livelihoods, and the skilled care of traumatized widows and orphans. i am particularly concerned about the time afterwards. to help the survivors on a lasting basis, we need allies. we need the ngos, we need many volunteers who can intervene on the ground for the sake of humanity, and we need functional structures so that the urban partnerships can be expanded. some of them haven't even been born yet. tourism needs to be revived in these asean and saarc countries, some of which i know well. they're waiting for us to be friends again. i hope that people will be helped even after the newspapers have moved on and the cameras have been switched off.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the whole world is shocked by the scale of the disaster. i welcome all the more the fact that the eu, the member states and, above all, the citizens are showing such a great willingness to donate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the victims of the floods, including the closure of the road network and the construction of a new road linking the two towns. i also believe that it is urgent for the donor countries to discuss seriously the possibility of granting generous debt relief to the countries concerned and to work towards a peaceful solution to the conflicts in sri lanka and aceh. it is a shame, however, that a debate is now being broken by the fence about whether germany, for example, is even able to help. this is addressed to messrs stoiber and wulff, who in their party have always carried christianity like a monster. but fortunately, the overwhelming majority of people, not only in germany and the eu, but also around the world, see this differently, as the outstanding example of the people of beslan shows.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the flood disaster in south-east asia has shown us how much the world needs cooperation between europeans and americans. europeans and americans certainly have different skills, and yet, it is precisely when we pool our skills that we can provide the important help that the world needs. but the disaster has also shown that we urgently need to step up our cooperation. a friendship must tolerate critical words, it must tolerate candid words. i do not think i am telling anyone anything new by mentioning these critical issues which are on the agenda again and again: from kyoto to the international criminal court to the guantanamo bay issue, we have problems which we must and will discuss with our american friends. but we also want to be fair, we want to give president bush a chance to improve relations in his second term. we expressly welcome the announcement by the american president that he will attach particular importance to europe. we should also not forget that despite all the difficulties we have had and still have, cooperation works successfully in many areas: whether it is between states, between think tanks or between citizens' initiatives, cooperation is working extremely well in many areas besides trade and the economy. we have many tasks ahead of us, think of global warming, think of the conflict between israel and palestine, think of the taming of the mullah regime in iran, but also think of fighting hunger and disease. we must work together here, the world cannot afford unilateralism.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not on 22 and 23 february, us president george w. bush will visit europe. after his visit to brussels, he will be received by the german chancellor in mainz. i'm glad there'll be protests against the visit of this war criminal. i will personally speak at the demonstration in mainz. some people wonder why the transatlantic relationship is so good. this is because there are no fundamental differences between eu policy and the us government's course. eu leaders want the eu to be a global player, including in the military sphere. the debate on the eu constitution treaty has also shown this. two examples: the militarization of the eu with an explicit arms embargo in the new eu treaty and the establishment of economic and monetary policy on neoliberal principles. the eu as a world power, usually in agreement with, but sometimes in competition with, the usa, is to me the horror of the transatlantic relationship.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our relations with the united states of america are based on three factors: common interests, common values and competition. competition must be organised in a reasonable manner and must take place in particular in the economic field. the common interest is that we want to create security: foreign security, the fight against terrorism and many other things, such as the major environmental problems to be solved. but it also involves - and this is a reference to the competition point - that the big industrial nations of europe and north america come together, not at the expense of the poor, but by working together to create a fair order. this is an essential condition for a peaceful world. as far as values are concerned, there is sometimes controversy in the context of practical policies, but it is a given. we have been doing very well in europe with these three things together. the fact that europe is free today is due to the existence of these relations. we should make it clear that we are not building the european union against the united states, but that we are building it to be strong, to be a partner of the united states again. because only the strong can be partners. we must also take another aspect into account: we europeans have treaties, association agreements and so on with almost every country in the world, and the americans have nafta, apec, etc. but there are no contractual agreements between us europeans and the americans, except in the area of nato. that is why we should make sure that at the end of the day we have a transatlantic marketplace which would make it easier for us to organise competition in a sensible way without breaking the multilateral order, to pursue our interests together and to defend our values. i think that this is one of the great tasks that we have to face. victor hugo once said: 'today we adopted the constitution'. he dreamed of a common assembly that would bring europe together in peace and that would also have relations with the other great democracies on the other side of the atlantic. i think that on a day like this, when we voted in favour of the constitution, that must be our objective.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. my contribution is almost identical to that of my colleague elmar brok. i would also like to focus more on economic relations. we have included a point in the resolution which relates to the idea of a transatlantic market. this proposal has already been made in several resolutions of parliament. it's a very simple idea. it assumes that our economic ties are much closer than we know and realize, and that these economic ties contribute to healthy growth on both sides of the atlantic, that we have jobs, and that we are also helping the rest of the world to share in that prosperity. this applies to both the multilateral and the bilateral agendas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means that we cannot continue to work with the existing new transatlantic agenda alone, especially not with the so-called positive economic agenda. it is far too technical, it has no political character and it has no character which we can explain to the citizens. that means we have to change it and we have to develop a concept, an idea, a strategy that underlies this transatlantic market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is about taking the idea of the single market concept, acknowledging the reality, taking the geopolitical and geostrategic changes in the world and applying the model that we already have in the competition sector and in the trade sector, where experts work together across the atlantic. if you look at the current figures and the commission documents on this - i am just referring to the quinlan and hamilton report - you know how intense the economic relations are. let me give you an example: us investment in the netherlands in 2003 was about as much as the total investment of us companies in all of asia. i hope that this example will shake us up in the house, and i hope that we can build on it and come to a reasonable cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there's a simple reason. canada has been mentioned several times now. i think we should really concentrate on europe and the united states in this report and in the resolution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as chairman of the delegation for relations with mexico, this is important to me. if we are talking about nafta, we are talking about the whole of nafta. please keep an eye on this.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have a massive and ongoing debt crisis in the world. this debt crisis remains a major obstacle to the independent and dynamic economic development of the countries of the south, at least in many of them. two figures illustrate this: many of the poorest countries have to spend over 40% of their gross national product on debt service. in such conditions, however, independent economic development is practically impossible. that is why we need a comprehensive debt relief initiative. we have another figure: for every euro we now give in development aid to the countries of the south, on average, one euro and almost 50 cents in interest payments go back to the countries of the north. that is why we need a comprehensive debt relief initiative. because it is quite clear: in the case of indonesia - we are discussing this right now - this would be four billion euros this year, which indonesia would have to pay back. that would immediately neutralize any kind of development and disaster aid. that is why i was very pleased when the president of the council said today that he was in favour of a full debt relief for indonesia. we need an international conference on debt relief. the parisian club cannot afford that, because the parisian club is a purely creditor's event. we need an international conference in which creditor countries, debtor countries and the civil societies concerned are involved on an equal footing as monitoring bodies. the european union and this parliament should do this!
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. no one can in good conscience expect the developing countries to continue to pay their debts, for they have already repaid their debts seven times over and their liabilities are four times as high as they were when they started. i would therefore disagree with you on one point, mr potočnik: you have given absolute figures per capita. that's not the point. every inhabitant of brandenburg, where i come from, is 16 000 euros in debt. our economy is built to handle that. but the economies of the developing countries cannot cope with this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a self-help book. if you think that this will ruin the rich industrial nations, i'll give you a number: the war in iraq costs the united states 150 million dollars a day. president bush has now asked congress for another $80 billion. pakistan's debt is $11 billion. compare these figures, and you will see that it is possible to make a complete debt cancellation. that must be the whole point of the matter. a second point: it is argued very often - and i have heard this again - that debt relief is to be considered as development aid. no, if there is the political will, if we really want to help these countries, then there must be a complete debt relief for the poorest countries. in addition, the rich countries must finally live up to their commitment to spend 0.7% of their gross domestic product on development aid. it is a sign that should be put up for these countries and for the european union.
counsel. madam president, the council can agree with much of what has been said: we all understand the urgency and the exceptional nature of the situation facing certain countries, particularly those affected by the natural disaster, and as far as iraq is concerned, i believe that no one doubts the need to help that country to rebuild. the question, however, is what is being done for all the other developing countries. first of all - and i agree with the commissioner somewhat - we cannot simply proceed in the same way for everyone. not all developing countries are alike. there are very different situations. i think that we must first of all concentrate on the least developed countries, the poorest countries. what can be done for them? first, their debt can be reduced, or even canceled. i think this is an initiative that should be supported and promoted. what are the limits? there is the debate in the next council - i mentioned in particular the april council which should focus on an analysis and possibly a review of the european union's commitments to the achievement of the millennium development goals. there is the support of the european union for the initiatives taken within the g8, in particular those of the g8 presidency at the next summit in the united kingdom. europe must therefore promote this idea of alleviation, or even cancellation. but it cannot do so indiscriminately, because to do so would be to undermine its credibility. second, debt cancellation or debt relief only makes sense if rich countries increase their development aid. the european union has made commitments in this regard and they should be implemented. thirdly, debt, however large, must be integrated into a broader policy framework for development cooperation. there is no point in cancelling the debt if, at the same time, we close our borders to certain imports from developing countries; it is not a question of cancelling the debt if it is to subsidize certain products in our country and thereby block the development of those same products in developing countries. in short, i believe that cancellation is an important but not the only element of a development strategy, of a genuine development partnership, which the european union must tackle.
commission. mr president, the commission has taken careful note of this discussion on the important issue of debt relief. a number of important and useful suggestions and comments were made today. i should like to respond as follows. first, it should urgently be emphasised that poverty is not just a question of debt relief. the real issue is appropriate levels of development financing. second, it is important to distinguish between different countries, in particular between the least developed countries and other developing countries. third, the per capita figures on debt relief were not presented to you with the aim of cutting back on aid, but rather the opposite: to use this criteria in order to alleviate the debt burden for those countries that really need it most. fourth, the un and the commission will coordinate their efforts with other international organisations on the hipc and other initiatives. fifth, a new world bank-imf sustainability framework recognises the inadequacy of existing debt relief efforts. the new framework will: first, set indicative debt burden thresholds that are country-specific; second, take account of external shocks; third, ensure greater transparency and dialogue in assessing that sustainability. that is what the new sustainability framework is all about. lastly, relief for iraq should not be at the expense of the poorest countries, and a debt moratorium for countries hit by the tsunami would be appropriate. the commission will closely follow the issue of the external debt of developing countries, in particular the least-developed ones. there also remains much to do as regards considering debt relief for the countries of southeast asia hit by the earthquake and tsunami. the commission will maintain a continuous dialogue with the european parliament in all the above fields of action. we all agree that for some developing countries external indebtedness is a major obstacle to growth and development. debt relief can indeed be a useful tool in that quest, but by no means can it offer a full response. aid, socio-economic policies, trade policies, etc. that ensure the sustainability of these countries in the long run are crucial. that is what they would want and what they deserve.
the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the question time with questions to the council (b6-0001/2005).
question no 1 by mr ortuondo larrea (h-0498/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: deaths of immigrants off the coast of fuerteventura (canary islands) on 28 november 2004, a small wooden boat capsized off the coast of fuerteventura, spain, killing two african immigrants. fourteen more immigrants are still missing. once again, people were dying off the coast of europe, having escaped extreme hardship with the help of smugglers, hoping to start a new life, both in private and in professional life, on the european continent. is the council aware that we are facing a serious humanitarian problem which neither european society nor the institutions of the european union can continue to ignore and for which a solution must be found as a matter of urgency? what political and humanitarian measures will the council take to prevent these tragic deaths which can no longer be ignored?
counsel. i fully understand the particular situation of a country like malta, which indeed has to face serious problems of illegal immigration because of the arrival of people seeking refuge there. i believe that this problem must be tackled in a spirit of solidarity. in this connection, several measures must be taken: the improvement of the surveillance of our maritime borders in the long term and the possible creation of a european coast guard service, as well as the immediate creation of financial means for the repatriation of people arriving in a country like malta. i believe that the financial perspective should provide the necessary financial resources for the implementation of a policy to this end, so that european solidarity can be shown at this level. i repeat that this is one of the central topics of the next informal meeting of immigration ministers, which will take place at the end of this month in luxembourg.
question no 2 by mr robert evans (h-0502/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: research and development the 25 member states of the european union currently spend some £120 billion a year on investment in research and development. compared with the more than £210 billion spent by the united states, investment in the eu is modest. this imbalance is one of the factors that contributes to the emigration of talented scientists from europe to the usa. the kok report found that nearly three quarters of the world's leading information technology companies are american. what measures does the council intend to take to improve the knowledge economy in europe?
counsel. madam president, i will answer in my own name, since you are addressing me directly. i think that's a good idea. i believe that the evaluation of the research programmes implemented must be strengthened. this must be taken into account when discussing the development of the seventh research framework and the increase in funding in the next financial perspective, which i hope will be substantial. i think that this idea deserves to be studied in depth and submitted to the council's decision-making bodies.
question no 3 by mr papadimoulis (h-0503/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: protection of the ecumenical patriarchateon the occasion of an invitation to a reception where the patriarch of constantinople is described as ökümeni, the turkish government issued a circular demanding that no state official should follow the invitation, pointing out that we consider it a mistake if one of our citizens issues invitations using titles he does not own and which have been transferred to him from abroad. recently, there have also been reports that the new dogma of national security in turkey will be that "attempts to change the current status of the patriarchate and reopen the theological faculty in halki must be countered". such attacks on the ecumenical patriarchate have been increasingly frequent in recent times and are evidence of turkey's inflexible stance on the above issues, although for the european union these are an important criterion for the democratization of turkey. does the council intend to take immediate action to protect the ecumenical patriarchate, since such statements have recently fuelled acts of terrorism and 'spontaneous' demonstrations by extremist elements against the ecumenical patriarchate?
counsel. madam president, i believe that the exercise of religious freedom must be guaranteed by all member states and by all candidate countries. as i have said, the council will be monitoring very closely the implementation of the legislation which has not yet been finally adopted in turkey. the commission will have to report to the council in due course on any failures in this area. of course, if turkey continues to fail to do so, a strong dialogue with that country will be needed to ensure that it complies with this criterion, which is decisive for the admission of a country to the european union.
question no 4 by othmar karas (h-0508/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: formal adoption of the common position by the council on the proposal for a directive on computer-implemented inventions how does the council intend to proceed with the adoption of a common position on the proposal for a directive on computer-implemented inventions, given the fact that the polish government has declared that it cannot support the current council proposal, the new weighting of the treaty of nice is now in force and thus without the consent of poland the majority required for adoption of the common position based on the council's political agreement of 18 may is no longer available, the dutch parliament is asking for the withdrawal of the consent to the common position and all four german bundestag actions in an intergroup motion for a resolution call for a number of amendments to the text of the directive? is the council aware that this politically weak agreement completely ignores the position of the european parliament?
counsel. madam president, the council would like to emphasize that, contrary to the honourable member's view that the draft council common position completely ignores the position of the european parliament, it has, when drawing up its draft common position, carefully examined the amendments proposed by the european parliament at first reading and has accepted several of them. as regards the adoption of its common position, the council informs the honourable member that it has been postponed at the request of a member state in order to give it more time to prepare a statement to be included in the minutes of one of the next council meetings.
counsel. madam president, i believe that there are still contacts between the council and the european parliament. i was asked a number of questions, albeit informally, on this subject just a few hours ago this morning. i think you are asking a very specific question: i think qualified majority voting will apply.
counsel. i have said to you before that the council and the presidency are not opposed to the idea of talks with the european parliament, but i am making it clear that if this country can make its statement - and it can do so at one of the next council meetings - the council should, in principle, decide by qualified majority.
question no 6 by mrs badía i cutchet (h-0519/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: linguistic diversity in the european union there are languages in the european union with a centuries-old history which are neither the languages of a state nor official languages of the union, but which are spoken by a very large number of people, often from different regions of individual member states, where they are in some cases official languages. sometimes these languages have a demographic weight, a literary tradition and a vitality comparable to other official languages of the union, with a similar or higher population. given that respect for linguistic diversity is one of the democratic and cultural foundations of the union, as recognised in article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights ('the union shall respect the diversity of cultures, religions and languages') and that it would therefore be unfair, in line with the values of the european union, to discriminate against a language because it is not spoken throughout the territory of a state, does the council not consider that the european union should take greater account of the reality of these languages? what is the council's position on this proposal, given that the spanish government has already submitted a memorandum to amend the language arrangements in the european institutions with a view to including the co-official languages in spain in this system?
counsel. firstly, mr president, i am in the very particular position of having a minority language of my own which is neither a working language nor a language for drafting treaties. so i understand, in a way, the problem that has been raised. i should add that it is possible to publish the basic texts, the treaties and, i hope, one day the constitution in all the languages used at european union level. i think we should continue along this path. i suggested to the spanish member of parliament that this pragmatic approach be adopted.
question no 7 by mr claude moraes (h-0521/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: implementation of the eu guidelines on children in armed conflictwhat measures does the council propose to ensure the implementation of the eu guidelines on children in armed conflict?
you are quite right, mr president, i agree with you. but you know, of course, from your long experience in parliament, that we have had great delays on the other subjects, which has made question time very short again, and now the president of the council has to rush to the next sitting. but i'll take your advice and act on it. mr ryan, on that subject.
it is very often the case that the representatives of the council or the commission present are quite willing to stay with us a little longer and change, but of course i cannot change it if they have to go to the next meeting and have no more time. i want to thank you again for the information. we will take this very seriously and ask all members to respect their speaking time and not to delay debates. mr figueiredo, you were late and not present when the question was asked. i can't take your request any more.
if i allow this now because the president of the council is nodding, i am breaking the rules, because you must be present at the time of the question. the fifth question came a long time ago, and we started not too early, but much too late. that means you should have used the time. questions 8 to 25 will be answered in writing. that concludes question time.
the meeting is closed. (the sitting was closed at 7.10 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: there was an incident yesterday that caused quite a stir. there was a discussion at 3 p.m. triggered by mr. batten's statement about an incident in which our security service officials were allegedly involved. there was a very heated debate yesterday at 3 p.m. and the president, in accordance with rule 166, took a decision within 24 hours which i now give you: the incident of yesterday is being investigated by the quaestors. all parties to this incident will be interviewed by the quaestors. the quaestors will then report to the president on this incident. i therefore assume that this incident can be considered closed for today because there will be an investigation. so we can continue with the normal agenda.
the next item is the commission's statement on the outcome of the elections in ukraine.
mr president, commissioner, we cannot welcome a representative of mr solana who has worked successfully in ukraine. in ukraine, a people rose up by peaceful means and forced free elections. anyone who has seen the young people in the tent cities in kiev must say that this was done with a persuasiveness of peaceful democrats that can only be exemplary; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must see that we as the european parliament have made our contribution and that the other institutions have also been involved. we brought them with us, and we had to bring them with us to make them come with us. we also need to see that this has been done in order to start a democratic process and at the same time to have a ukraine that can decide where it belongs. because the decisive thing in europe since the csce final act is that each country can decide for itself. only this right must be won for a people! where it goes then is the people's own decision. we should stop thinking in zones of influence. of course, in this europe, we must find balances and build bridges so that new tensions do not arise, including with our great neighbours to the east. for this to work, we must support the democratically elected president in making clear to his own people that it is worthwhile to choose democracy and look to the west. the action plan is not enough. we have to think about a lot more than that. the european perspective that ukraine must have, and which it must decide for itself, is certainly part of that. but it also means - and this is a request to ourselves - that the conditions be created by the european union. today there were particularly many of those who voted for ukraine's membership of the european union who did not vote for the constitution yesterday. we must be able to take in other countries ourselves. we are not doing that today and we have to wait until this really works in the ten new member states. we must therefore develop other options besides full membership, namely article 47, a sensible neighbourhood policy, and the european economic area. if this is done properly, moldova will soon be in a democratic process. i hope that in the next few years belarus will also be involved. we shall have a development in the balkans in a broader sense. and we must make an offer to these countries, not in the sense of membership in 20 years, but in the sense of something that means something today. i would ask the commission and the council to approach this matter with less modesty and more imagination.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the bible is a good place to start. because the joyful christmas message from kiev is: democracy and freedom are born! if the asian flood disaster had not overshadowed the presidential elections in ukraine, this would have been the second best political christmas for me personally in prague after 1989. i was with the european parliament delegation in the constituencies south of kiev and i can testify that the election was not only peaceful but also very correct. we congratulate the democratic movement and viktor yushchenko on his election victory. it is a brilliant victory achieved in a difficult economic situation, in a region still suffering from the consequences of the chernobyl disaster, but above all from the consequences of the soviet system. we support the democratic movement and the renewal of an old european country. we support ukraine on its path towards the rule of law, human rights and democracy. this great movement will also spread to russia and belarus. i am, however, expressly opposed to commissioner potočnik's view that accession to the eu is not on the agenda. i believe that ukraine belongs to europe. and if that is so, ukraine is also part of the eu, if it fulfils the conditions. we should do whatever it takes. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i was one of the observers who spent christmas in kiev, but this political event - and i speak for all those who were there - made it easy for us to spend the holidays in a different way. the elections were fair by osce standards, and some disagreements, such as the short-term decision of the constitutional court, were handled relatively well. of course, the public interest in europe and around the world also contributed to the correct conduct of the elections. but the public interest, the public attention, must not be diminished now, because the democratic process is not yet finished. we observers were impressed by the commitment and tenacity of the citizens, and not just of special elites. the high turnout speaks for itself. we have seen that many people have had to walk miles to reach the polling stations. i was also impressed and very pleased by the natural participation and participation of women in this process of democratization and in the polling stations. i can't wait to get back to you with a bible quote. but these are signs of a civil society that does not wait for its government to decide. i hope that this democratic process will also be an incentive for neighbouring countries. and i will also mention the country specifically: belarus. what is to be done for europe now? firstly, we must not deepen the divisions that have arisen during the campaign, during this polarization. secondly, we must rethink what help and what prospects we can give to ukraine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commission. mr president, on 9 june 2004 the previous commission took the decision to terminate the contracts of 43 language teachers. this decision has been perceived by certain parties as 'untransparent' and 'unjustified'. in this respect the questions put by the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs reflect the concerns expressed by the teachers themselves. before i reply in detail to the questions put by the honourable member, i would like to make four introductory points. first, the decision was taken in order to conform to the principle of sound financial management. since 1997, commission language courses have been delivered either by internal teachers with direct contracts with the commission or by language schools selected via an open tender procedure. each formula accounts for approximately 50% of the courses. quality-wise, surveys have shown there to be no difference between the courses given by internal trainers and those given by language schools. on the other hand, there is a significant difference in budgetary terms: one hour's training delivered by an internal trainer costs four times as much as an hour delivered by a language school. on a yearly basis, taking 2003 as the reference year, the costs are approximately eur 3.5 million as opposed to eur 900 000. second, the language teachers have been granted generous compensation. the commission offered compensation payments that went well beyond the minimum legal requirement. minimum compensation would have been three months' salary per five years of service. that would have resulted in compensation equivalent to between 12 and 19 months' salary. the commission opted, however, to calculate the compensation on the basis of the maximum amount ever granted by belgian courts. this resulted in compensation of between 14 and 24 months' salary. this means gross amounts of between approximately eur 19 000 and eur 152 000. furthermore, the commission opted to pay this compensation without requiring the teachers to serve out their period of notice. third, the decision to terminate the contracts in question is not a unilateral initiative by the commission, but rather the outcome of moves initiated by the budgetary authority in the mid-1990s. in order to understand the decision of 9 june 2004 one must go back to the origins of this matter. the whole process started in the early 1990s, when parliament externalised its language training in luxembourg. at this time, the language courses at the commission and the council were delivered by internal trainers who were granted private law contracts, without any call for tender or selection procedure. in the mid 1990s, the committee on budgets criticised both the commission and the council for the costs associated with this practice. after lengthy discussions, the trialogue – the chairman of the committee on budgets, the secretary-general of the council and the commissioner in charge of personnel – concluded that gradual full externalisation was desirable. as a first step the parties agreed to launch a call for tenders for the supply of language courses, and also, by way of derogation from this principle, to allow existing internal teachers to continue their activities within their existing contract framework. fourth, the trialogue agreement did not constitute a commitment on teachers benefiting from lifelong employment. in detail, the trialogue agreed to allow the language teachers to continue working under contracts of indefinite duration without having to participate in the call for tender. this point was made explicit to the unions at the time, as the minutes of meetings show. at the same time, the possibility of terminating a contract of indefinite duration is governed by belgian law and cannot be waived. any agreement between parties not to apply the law is null and void. after that basic introduction, i will now turn to the specific questions asked. the first is: did the commission inform and consult the council and parliament before unilaterally breaching the trialogue agreement? there are three elements that need to be considered here. firstly, the commission did not breach the trialogue agreement because this agreement did not constitute a commitment on teachers benefiting from lifelong employment. secondly, the commission accepts that it could have informed the trialogue co-signatories – the committee on budgets and the council – of its intention to proceed with the second phase of externalisation. nevertheless, the commission considers that its decision was broadly in line with the stated orientations of the trialogue and the budgetary authority. the second question is: when did the commission inform the teachers' representatives, the union representatives and the local personnel committee? the commission informed the teachers' representatives, together with the teachers concerned, at the general assembly held on 18 june 2004, before the decision was notified. under the social dialogue agreement, staff representatives and the local personnel committee represent persons employed under the staff regulations. since language teachers do not fall into this category, no staff representatives were involved in the case in point. the third question is: what kind of information was communicated to the teachers' representatives? the commission informed the teachers and their representatives of the decision taken on 9 june 2004, giving the reasons for this and explaining the practical consequences and arrangements, which included the commission's plans for compensation payments. the fourth question is: does the commission consider that its handling of this matter stands as a good example of best practice in terms of prior consultation and the provision of information in good time? looked at from a legal point of view, then i would reply in the affirmative: the commission complied in full with all the relevant obligations, even if, as already stated, the commission could have informed the co-signatories of the trialogue agreement before adopting the decision. the fifth question is: does the commission feel it has fully faced up to its social responsibility to the teachers concerned? the commission has not only fulfilled all its legal obligations but has also interpreted its obligations in the most favourable way for the persons concerned. the sixth and last question is: can the commission comment on and provide copies of any opinions given by the commission's legal service on the dismissal of the teachers requested by dg admin? the opinions given by the commission's legal service are governed by the rules applicable to relations between lawyers and their clients. therefore, the commission will not release the opinions or comments of its legal service. in conclusion, the commission's position can be summarised as follows. firstly, as regards the substance of the matter, the commission considers that the decision to terminate the contracts concerned was sound. it was no longer tenable to continue a dual system where half of the courses were provided by internal teachers at a cost approximately four times greater than the courses provided by language schools, with no difference in quality. secondly, the commission implemented this decision in full compliance with its legal obligations. thirdly, the commission accepts that it could have informed the co-signatories of the trialogue agreement before adopting the decision. however, the commission considers that its decision was broadly in line with the orientations of the trialogue and the budgetary authority. finally, the commission has no intention of reducing the number of courses. it reaffirms its commitment to multilingualism and to continuing to provide its staff with opportunities for a high standard of language learning without compromising on quality. obtaining better value for money without any loss of quality is obviously a means of attaining this goal.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not it's 4:00 on a friday in june 2004. 43 language teachers have come together to plan the next school year. the bomb goes off, you're fired. these skilled workers have been working for the commission for decades, and more than half of them are aged between 55 and 59. the prodi commission of that time acted without warning and without consulting and informing the workers in good time. this is in stark contrast to the agreements of the 1997 trilogue i hold in my hands. the interinstitutional agreement was signed by mr samland, of the ep's committee on budgets, mr trumpf, of the council, and mr liikanen, of the commission. it guarantees that the contracts will be valid until retirement. in addition, as a contribution to the sound financial management you have just mentioned, the language teachers participated in the required cost savings by working, according to their own statements, four hours more per week without being paid for it. i would like to ask, on behalf of the ppe-de group and after having had discussions with the people concerned, what employment alternatives were there for language teachers when the deadlines for recruitment in other institutions were already running out at the end of june? even after your intervention, i have my doubts that belgian law has been respected, according to which dismissals without a social plan are legally invalid. the employer's duty of care was not respected. was the language teacher's lawyer heard in time? i have my doubts. how does your approach reconcile with the principle of good governance, i.e. responsible government and accountability of public administration? does the commission know what its own communication on corporate social responsibility is? the guardian of the treaties has a role model, commissioner, to set standards, not to undermine standards. there is an urgent need for action!
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commissioner's explanations did not convince me. i still have the impression that the commission's decision of june last year really broke the agreement of the 1997 trilogue. we have not been informed in advance of this in any way, as far as i know. it is also somewhat saddening that the decision to dismiss the language teachers was taken at the last commission meeting before the european elections, as if it were assumed that we would not hear anything about this process. secondly, i think it is unacceptable that the commission, which is fighting with us for a social europe, should throw its social responsibility and duty of care overboard when it comes to its own employers' interests. how else can it be explained that, as has been suggested here, the persons concerned were not even informed in advance of the dismissals, let alone that for many years they were declared to the belgian authorities as part-time workers only and that their actual working hours were not taken into account? thirdly, the teaching will now be carried out by language schools only. a first call for tenders has already been issued and the first contracts are expected to be awarded. it is therefore likely that - and this is an interesting point - the british council, which has a new leader, will soon be able to provide language training for the commission. i would ask the commission to undertake an independent investigation of the whole process and to refute the allegations, if any, in a really good way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we now come to the urgent matters and human rights, which you were about to say. we have three topics this time which concern asia, but there are still serious human rights violations in europe too. i am therefore happy to have two human rights defenders here today, mr kowaljow from russia and mrs estemirowa from chechnya, who are receiving the robert schuman medal from the epp group. i am glad that you, as a human rights activist who is putting himself in great danger, are following our important human rights debate today. we can assure you that we will continue to do everything we can to help human rights in russia and chechnya to make a breakthrough.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. january 26 marks the second anniversary of the execution of monk lobsang dhondup. beijing ignored the world protests and our resolution. we campaigned for his spiritual leader, lama tenzin deleg rinpoche, both in january 2003 to prevent the death sentence and in november 2004, when the two-year stay of execution expired. the chinese embassy, in a conversation here in strasbourg yesterday, assured me that the death penalty will most likely be commuted to life imprisonment. the epp-ed group regards this statement as a success for the many initiatives, including our own. we have never stopped speaking out and winning allies in parliaments and human rights organizations. we have repeatedly urged the council and the commission to persuade the chinese authorities to take action. our demand remains on the agenda. the charges of sabotage and involvement in attacks must be reviewed in a new trial. this process must be based on the rule of law and be conducted under international observation. the human rights situation in china has unfortunately changed little in principle. for example, bishop julius jia zhiguo, a member of the underground church, was recently arrested. so the arms embargo against china must be maintained. i hope that the path that has now been taken through a possible pardon can be continued. the aim is and remains the recognition of minority rights, the recognition of religious rights. the next essential step is to intensify the dialogue with the representatives of the dalai lama.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not there's a chinese proverb that says you should throw away the watch before you go to a trial. this wise saying must be understood correctly, for it does not exhort to inaction, but to persistence. and just when we sometimes threaten to resign in the face of the tenacity with which we are confronted over and over again with the same human rights issues, we must remain clear and persistent and must never let up in the defence of human rights, for example against the chinese regime and other regimes that they trample on. but we must not misunderstand this word as meaning inaction. we must be impatient when we protest against the massive human rights violations in a country as important as china. today, in particular, we are dealing with the fate of a leading tibetan monk and a bishop of the chinese underground church, both of whom are being brutally persecuted in violation of the principles of freedom of religion which are universally recognized. i want to say very clearly to our chinese partners: it is unworthy of an ancient high culture like the chinese to suppress an ancient culture - an equally ancient high culture - like the tibetan. it is unworthy of such a high culture to oppress and persecute religious communities such as the buddhist and catholic churches. china doesn't need this, china is doing massive damage to itself. we europeans must put our words into action and also try to exert pressure to enforce human rights even when they are being violated by a large state which is an important economic partner. that is true of russia in the case of chechnya, it is true of china in the case of tibet and it is true of religious freedom. we can't be here to judge the little ones and bow down to the big ones. we must have the same standards here. only then will europe be credible in its human rights policy in the future.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i would like to make one point clear once again on behalf of my group: we have made it quite clear at the beginning of the 21st century, in our constitution, how important the rule of law and civil rights are to us. these two things and, thirdly, human rights are important to us and not only to us . they are important to all people throughout the world. we therefore, as a group, reiterate our strong call for the rule of law, our call for the chinese government to immediately commute the death sentence against tenzin deleg rinpoche. but not only the sentence against him, but also against all the others who have been sentenced to death in china. i also call on my group to demand that the death penalty be abolished at last, also in china, because it is unworthy of a civilized people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in politics, and particularly in bilateral relations, compromises are often necessary, especially when one wants to make progress with partners who are very different. i therefore accept that a counter-deal has been struck, in a way - even if the parties do not admit this - in the form of iran complying with the iaea's demands on the nuclear issue and in return, negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu will be resumed, as they were in january. but there can be no bargaining in a relationship, and that is in the area of human rights. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in iran and the human rights situation in the country. i would also like to remind the commission and the council that this parliament must give its consent to an agreement. if the human rights situation continues to develop as it has so far, i have serious doubts about that. even the un general assembly on 20 december 2004 denounced the deteriorating situation of freedom of speech, expression and the media in iran, as well as the arbitrary arrests without charges or trials. journalists and internet journalists are being targeted, and just before that i received the message from the observatory for the protection of human rights defenders that shirin ebadi, the nobel peace prize winner, was summoned yesterday to the prosecutor's office in tehran. we don't know why yet. i suspect this is classic intimidation. the fact that the death penalty is still being applied not only to all but also to minors and the mentally handicapped is unacceptable, and it is not yet confirmed that stoning is finally a thing of the past. so let's send a clear signal that we will not allow this kind of politics in iran!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. iran is one of the largest countries on earth and yet we are watching with concern the actions of the government. i welcome the fact that efforts are being made to promote dialogue with iran and that the european union is exerting pressure on the human rights situation. the commitment by iran to improve the human rights situation during the fourth eu-iran human rights dialogue held in tehran on 14 and 15 june 2004 is positive. but we also see that there is an urgent need for this to happen. because according to estimates by international organizations, there are still about 300 to 400 executions of death sentences, about 80 floggings and an unknown number of stoning every year, although this, as you have just heard, is officially no longer within the framework of the iranian penal code. the excerpt from the old iranian penal code (article 119) read and this shows how inhuman a government can be towards its people : the stones used in a stoning may not be so large that the condemned is killed by one or two stone throws; nor can stones be so small that they cannot be called stones. this is state-sanctioned torture with an intended death, and it has yet to be proven that this is no longer the case today and at this point in the 21st century. the human rights situation of minors was also discussed. death sentences are handed out to minors. however, enforcement is then delayed until they have reached the age of 18. this means that some convicts, from the age of 14, spend four years in so-called "re-education camps" awaiting execution of a death sentence, instead of being given the chance to enjoy a decent education and a future. we have just heard the un's comments on the situation in iran. i am very pleased that the letter from the president of the european parliament, josep borrell, to the iranian ambassador has helped to suspend stoning and to change the sentence which could have been carried out at the end of last year. let us continue to exert this pressure, because only in this way will we be able to meet our own demands internationally.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. since our last debate here in the european parliament in october last year, there has been some progress, but also some setbacks. i am relieved that britain, germany and france have succeeded in continuing the negotiations on the nuclear programme. i am particularly pleased - this has just been said - that there is a positive response in individual cases when we discuss individual, serious violations of human rights in iran. obviously we are being heard and we can hope that our intervention in the field of human rights can be successful. the eu commission is a negotiating and dialogue partner in this process. i would therefore like to appeal to the commission not to treat human rights as secondary but to put them in the same spotlight as the question of economic relations or the prevention of iran's nuclear weapons. on the other hand, i would also like to say clearly to our iranian friends: dialogue and negotiation are critical dialogue. iran also needs to listen when we criticize certain incidents in the country, the abuse of women, the oppression of women, the stoning, the executions, which we cannot accept and will never accept. i do not think that this dialogue was interrupted by the united nations resolution of december last year, but it is part of our policy and a call to us. unfortunately, it also proves that our concern about the human rights situation, the restrictions on press freedom and the persecution of journalists is more than justified. i would like to make a further appeal to the iranian authorities not to stop at announcements but to stop the stoning, to implement women's rights and not to make mere declarations in this dialogue. we are also very concerned about the indictment of the nobel peace prize winner. i think that all the ladies here, but also the representatives of the commission and the council, make it clear that we expect that the positive commitment of mrs ebadi will not be restricted in any way. my group will vote for the resolution, but we will also ask for paragraph 9 to be deleted because it does not belong in this debate.
the commission has already done so. the european union and iran have returned to the negotiating table to resume talks on a joint trade and cooperation agreement. the reason given is that iran has now accepted the international atomic energy agency's controls and has temporarily stopped uranium enrichment. i wonder why the commission considers that iran's position on the so-called nuclear dispute is the only criterion for the resumption of negotiations. there are still serious human rights problems and every trade and cooperation agreement of the european union contains clear statements on human rights chapters which are also a prerequisite for cooperation. the commission's attitude suggests that the human rights problems in iran have disappeared overnight. the present resolution emphasizes that the human rights situation in iran has not improved. sharia law is applied unchanged. executions, stoning, torture, arbitrary arrests are commonplace. the work of human rights activists and journalists has become even more difficult and dangerous. nobel prize winner shirin ebadi has been served with a new subpoena. in view of this, i think it is completely wrong for the european union to resume negotiations with the iranian government. i appeal to both the commission and the council to take their own demands seriously and not to be bought off economically in the truest sense of the word. the european union should not negotiate economic cooperation with iran, but instead sit down with those forces which are actually committed to democratization, to a different iran, to a democratic iran. i think, mr gahler, that was another attempt to tie things together. i want to be very clear: name a country that behaves like iran. if we do not suspend trade relations with iran, which country do you intend to suspend?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all agree that trafficking in women and children is a crime. this case in cambodia is unfortunately just one case among many, and there are many cases around the world that are not public. in recent weeks, media reports have alarmed the world public that tsunami victims are being trafficked. the cambodian case is therefore all the more worrying because it has only by chance reached the public in this house and unfortunately has not alarmed the world public. yet it is only the tip of the iceberg in the global trafficking of children and women. i think this case in cambodia also shows how much corruption there is in this country, that there has been no reform of the judiciary, that regardless of the sex industry, the cambodian government should have made sure that the pimps are not released within a few days and then threaten their victims again. but we must also ask ourselves what is behind this trade. the increasing landlessness in cambodia is getting worse and worse, so that these people have no other prospect than to sell their children, their daughters, their sons. we must also denounce this, we must really put our finger on the wound here and finally put the appropriate pressure on the cambodian government so that what happened there will never be repeated in this form. we must also express our concern that the commission which has been set up may be used only formally to reassure the public and us. we hope that the debate in this house will give rise to a greater effort to bring these crimes into the world's public eye and to fight them.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not there is hardly a country that has suffered as much as cambodia has in the last 60 or 70 years: first the second world war, which was also brutal there, then the two indochina wars, the stone age communism of the khmer rouge, the vietnamese communism of the so-called liberators and today state decay and organized crime on an unimaginable scale. however, it has been rightly said that this cannot be a reason to tolerate or accept what is happening there right before our eyes. we are witnessing a particularly bad form of modern slavery - i refuse to say modern slavery - in the form of sexual exploitation of women and minors in this country. first of all, of course, organized crime in this country bears a massive responsibility. but there are two others who are responsible, and that is why i attach great importance to paragraphs 12 and 13 of our resolution. the first is that the cambodian government itself must finally ratify and implement the relevant un convention and the relevant convention first against trafficking in human beings and then against organized crime. but the responsibility is equally ours in the european union. there would be no slave trade if there were no market for it. this market is not emerging solely or mainly in asia, but it is emerging massively, not least from europe. it is therefore our responsibility to use not only our foreign, security and development policies to put an end to this slavery; but we must also ensure that, in europe, with all the measures taken to combat crossborder crime and to fight for internal security, those who carry out and organise this sex tourism are persecuted without mercy, because otherwise we have no right to point the finger at others. first of all, we must take our responsibility in europe itself and make it very clear to our cambodian partners that this is a basic human rights issue, on which we will not compromise, and we must be prepared to give them massive support in the building up of the judiciary, but also to do our homework within the eu.
commission. mr president, the commission resolutely condemns all forms of trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation, especially of children. the commission fully shares the concerns of the members of the european parliament about the existence and the extent of human trafficking in cambodian citizens. it is particularly revolting that the perpetrators of this evil crime focus their attention on the poorest of the poor in one of the least-developed countries of south-east asia, where the high level of poverty and the limited capacity of the national agencies, as well as local corruption and collusion, make it easier for them to operate. these conditions have facilitated the development of trafficking of migrant workers for economic exploitation, the trafficking of women - both inside cambodia and across its borders - for prostitution, and the trafficking of children for prostitution, begging and illegal adoption. the commission’s cooperation activities in cambodia are directed ultimately at reducing poverty but are also designed to reflect the eu’s commitment to human rights and democracy, including equal treatment for men and women and the protection of children. more specifically, under the european initiative for democracy and human rights, the commission has already committed almost eur 1.9 million to unicef and action by churches together/danchurchaid in support of two large programmes to secure legal protection for children in cambodia, as well as funds to support the development of local human rights ngos. furthermore, in the commission’s programming document for the european initiative for democracy and human rights for 2005 and 2006 for campaign 2, called 'fostering a culture of human rights', for which cambodia is eligible, it is planned to address the issue of trafficking in children and women. the campaign will also promote the rights of human rights defenders. it will improve the protection of, and raise awareness about, the situation of those who work, at personal risk, to advance human rights through non-violent means, taking into account the recommendations of paragraph 13 of the european union guidelines on human rights defenders. the royal government of cambodia has recently taken a number of positive initiatives to address the problem, including the signature of memoranda of understanding with thailand on trafficking in women and children and on the management of migrant labour between the two countries, participation in the coordinated mekong ministerial initiative against trafficking and the establishment of a department of anti-human trafficking in the ministry of interior in 2002. i very much welcome these important initiatives and i have no doubt that these initiatives will also be welcomed by the members of this parliament. but the practical realities and the evident difficulty of implementing these measures have been drawn to the attention of all of us by the recent events involving the ngo afesip, which has received support from spain, the uk and the commission. these events have rightly given renewed concern to all of us. the member state embassies in phnom penh and the ec delegation reacted immediately with a statement, calling for a full investigation and for the perpetrators to be brought to justice. on 12 december, the government announced the establishment of an inter-departmental commission to inquire into the events. the member state embassies in phnom penh and the ec delegation joined other donors in a further statement to welcome this announcement and to express the hope that the conclusions of the inquiry would be credible and transparent. i can assure you that the ec delegation to the kingdom of cambodia, in collaboration with the member states' missions in the country, will follow closely the progress of the government inquiry and will continue to report on developments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry, but i mentioned at the beginning of this debate on human rights that two prominent human rights defenders are here today, mr kowaljow from russia and mrs estemirowa from chechnya, who have been awarded our group's robert schuman medal. you were not there at the time, although you had also welcomed them kindly. they have arrived and i want to assure the two guests that we will not cease to fight for human rights in russia, in chechnya and everywhere in the world. i still remember, commissioner, how we stood up for human rights and freedom in slovenia here on thursday afternoon. today we have a slovenian commissioner here, and i hope that in this european parliament we will one day see the freedom and human rights independence of chechnya and russia. (applause from the centre)
mr president, the end of paragraph 7 should be amended to read 'insists that adult consensual sexual activity in private is covered by the concept of privacy and calls for the immediate release of all persons held for such activity'.
president of the commission. mr president, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today the european commission has taken one of its most important decisions: the european council adopted the framework for the political action it intends to pursue during its mandate, for the next five years. that is why i am here today to present a strategy for european action. the starting point of this strategy is to respond to the expectations and needs of european citizens. its aim is to ensure that by 2010 europe is indeed on the path to renewal. i would like to propose that parliament should adopt this strategy. the constitution provides for a common action programme to be shared by parliament, the council and the commission. i suggest that we take this provision as our starting point and propose to parliament and the council that the strategic objectives for the union adopted today by the commission should serve as a basis for joint action over the next five years. it is a partnership for european renewal. and why does the union need a partnership? enlargement shows that europe is a success, but the truth is that many citizens still seem to have doubts. together we must strengthen our legitimacy; together we must send a stronger message; we must show together our political will to act towards common objectives.
counsel. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the president of the commission for presenting to you and to us the strategic objectives of the european union for the years ahead. i think it is wise that the president of the commission has confined himself to the essentials, trying not to go into the details of the legislation that needs to be put in place or the initiatives that need to be taken. i am very pleased to note that the commission and the presidency share a broad view and i would draw your attention to the fact that the programmes of the luxembourg and british presidencies and those which will follow until 2006 are really very close to what the president of the commission said. i believe that this is a partnership for the renewal of europe on which there should be no interinstitutional quarrels. those who are watching us, the citizens of europe, are not asking what the convictions and actions of the commission, the council or the european parliament will be. for europeans, europe is one. i see that my words elicit a variety of reactions, some more pleasant than others! (applause) i would like to thank the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i would like to suggest that we look for ways of expressing this identity of views between the three institutions. we will undoubtedly find an instrument, an expression, which will enable us to make the new constitution known, even if it is not yet in force. i would like to inform you that the president of the general affairs council, mr asselborn, will include the speech by the president of the commission and the programme he has drawn up on the agenda for the general affairs council on 31 january. we shall be looking together with the other two institutions for ways of expressing this common will. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is a good symbol and a good basis for the success of the commission's work over the next five years that the president of the european council is here today. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a good symbol that today the president of the commission, the president of the european council and we in the european parliament are reflecting together on the future of our european continent and are embarking on a journey, knowing that: european unification is the great peace project of the 20th and 21st centuries, and we want to work for this peace project. we guide our actions by our values, ideals and beliefs. we believe in our european continent, in its future for us and for our children. but faith alone is not enough. we must put faith into action, and that is our common task. our values are human dignity, the rule of law, democracy, a market economy and at the same time a social order; these are the basis of our action. we trust in the people, in their abilities, in their willingness to perform. the basic principle must not be state or public intervention, but the initiative of each individual, the realisation of his own potential in a free society, which is at the same time solidary, is our model for the future of our continent. mr president of the commission, you have chosen a beautiful title: partnership for your programme, a partnership both within and without, and for the renewal of europe's prosperity, solidarity and security. your programme is realistic and ambitious at the same time, and we are pleased that you have not repeated the exaggerated language of lisbon in march 2000, when it was said that europe should become the most competitive economic centre in the world, but that you speak of 'more competitive'. that is a modest statement, but it is ambitious in its aim, and i think that is the right formula for all of us. the european union's competitiveness in the world is the prerequisite for the european social model to have a future. and those who fail to promote the competitiveness of the european union now will be responsible for the fact that we will not be able to guarantee a european social model in the future. the competitiveness of the european union and the european social model are two sides of the same coin. and we are facing the enormous challenge of demographic change. we must also say that europe and the countries in europe - and this will also be a major political task - must create the conditions for a sensible family policy for the future of children. if this continent has no children, it has no future, and that is why we have to put this in this big framework. and if we promote competitiveness, it is not in the abstract that we ultimately benefit the firms, but in the concrete that we benefit the workers, because it is not just about preserving jobs, but also about creating jobs by increasing our competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i see commissioner almunia here, and the president of the european council is also the chairman of an important group of finance ministers. our group is in favour of the stability of the european currency, and what we have heard so far from jean-claude juncker is not something that worries us. but it is crucial that the commission remains the judge of the fiscal policies of our member states and that member states do not decide alone whether this is the right or wrong way to go if they fall back on a debt policy. the european commission must play an important role in this. mr almunia, if you follow the example of your predecessor, pedro solbes, you will always have our support. internal and external security mr president of the commission, you mentioned this. people expect us to secure our borders: 11,000 kilometres of land borders, 68,000 kilometres of maritime borders, and we have to secure that. but these boundaries also have to be permeable. we are thinking of the mediterranean countries in north africa. the european union must not allow people to die at sea in the future to escape the misery of their own countries. we must make a concerted effort here, and we must find ways with our neighbours in north africa to bring this refugee problem to a good conclusion in a humane way. the same applies in a different way to our neighbours to the east. we will have viktor yushchenko, the newly elected president of ukraine, here tomorrow. we also say that not all countries with a european political orientation can become members of the european union directly. but the crucial thing is that we develop a policy of good neighborliness. let me conclude by saying this: when it comes to security, the military can only be a last resort. it is our european task to devise a preventive security policy. i would ask you, mr president of the commission, to make every effort to achieve peace in the middle east so that israel can live in peace, but also so that the palestinians can preserve their dignity. if we are to move towards the future of this european union and if parliament's rights are to be preserved in the financial perspective, then we are at your side, mr president of the commission. we wish you success, we trust you. we wish you success for our european continent. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. you have given us a glass today, mr barroso, and we must assess how full the glass is. we expected a commission president like barroso not to pour a glass of red wine full to the brim. now we have to ask ourselves, is the glass half full or is it half empty? we decided to say, "it's half full". the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make a number of proposals. you also left out things we would have liked to have heard you say, but i don't want to burden you with that. it is a day on which we have heard a great deal, and we can say: we are social democrats. i would also like to thank you for working with the socialist commissioners in your commission, and it is clear from the title of your strategic programme that you intend to publish it in consultation with margot wallström. the title and the content of the report show that it contains social democratic elements, and that is a good thing, mr president. we encourage you to continue. we have heard that you want to put prosperity, solidarity and security at the heart of your work over the next five years. you have proved to be a good listener. solidarity, prosperity and security are - you have done that right - three interrelated points. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. but there are political families in this parliament, and the political family i represent has no institutional role to play, but a political role to play. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. but we want both sides of this medal to be equally printed. we support those who want to increase competition in europe, if they say that it must serve social cohesion. growth must be created to ensure social cohesion. if that is your maxim, mr president, you have the socialists on your side. but if that fails, if the approach is to use deregulation to undermine the social gains for which we as socialists have fought for over 150 years, then we will not give our approval to that approach. so i would like to add that we have some good news today. the programme you are presenting is a good one. on the basis of this programme we can work together, but the test case will be the legislative procedure. if you have taken your initiative, if the council and parliament have to decide together, we will have to compromise and then we will all have to be measured by what is actually presented in relation to our announcements. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the european parliament. i would like to say two things from the socialist point of view which were new to us today and which we have heard very well. we have criticised you more in your previous role as prime minister of portugal than in your present role, which is concerned with international political attitudes. if you say today that our commission, my commission, wants effective multilateralism, then we consider that to be progress. because, as mr pöttering has pointed out, we want europe to be a global political player, but we want it to be a civil power. we do not want preemptive strikes to be the solution to international problems, and i have to tell you that since the inaugural speech of the re-elected american president, i have the impression that the european union must intensify its efforts to bring about civil solutions rather than military ones. let us not add to the disaster in iraq. (applause from the centre) if you, as one of the representatives of a powerful organization in international politics, say: 'i want effective multilateralism', we will support that. as regards the stability pact, mr pöttering, we share your view that it must be safeguarded. the criteria of this stability pact should not be changed. but the stability pact must also be manageable, it must be applicable and it must not take account of the needs of 1990, but of those of 2005. 15 years of development in between. a stability pact which, in some interpretations, produces the exact opposite of what its second part says, namely growth, a pact which inhibits growth by virtue of mere stability, such a pact is contradictory in its very structure. that is why we want it to be reformed, and that is why the proposals of joaquin almunia are good proposals which we support. let me conclude with a fundamental remark on our future cooperation: the european parliament has gained overall strength by the confirmation of the commission. it is good that you want to come to this parliament and work with parliament as a whole. the fact that the president of the council is here today is a great symbol of the fact that when these institutions work together, security, prosperity, flexibility - and where necessary social protection - can work. the strength lies in the cooperation. "union is strength" is a beautiful saying. we are prepared to accept this unity if we and our political demands are respected and taken seriously. i am glad to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect. enjoy it the days of reckoning will come! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we all know that the union is about to miss the strategic objectives of lisbon. if we continue as we are, we will not succeed in making the eu the most competitive knowledge-based society in the world. but now we are hearing from mr pöttering here in the house that he did not mean it that way. we do not want to be the most competitive society, we just want to be competitive. but number one, no, no, that's not what it's about. this, mr pöttering, is an attitude which speaks of competition but is not prepared to face it. athletes, entrepreneurs, scientists, they all want to be at the top of their competitions. if you had been the coach of the greek national football team and not otto rehagel, she would never have gone to lisbon, mr pöttering. the greeks have won, and we want europe to win too. we're going to face the competition. we are facing the competition of economic areas because we have no other choice. we have one more chance in this competition; we must take it, and we must take it now. the fact that the commission has not only recognised this in its strategy paper, but wants to make this a guiding principle of its policy, is an opportunity for europe. we welcome that very much. we congratulate the commissioners responsible, first and foremost president barroso, but also commissioner verheugen and the other members of the college. it is clear that we need to concentrate on increasing competitiveness. we must finally accept it for what it is: an essential condition for more growth and therefore for more employment. we have a moral obligation to do so, not just a political one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, and it is not the commission's intention to do so. unemployment causes poverty, and poverty is the source of social, health and environmental problems. the best antidote to poverty is decent-paid work. it brings prosperity, perspective and self-esteem. only a society that is characterised by these qualities can also achieve ambitious social and environmental goals. this is a matter which must be put to the vote in the group of your group. mass unemployment is not a social achievement. after five years of wasted time, it is time to start implementing the lisbon objectives. the commission has extended its hand to partnership; we should take it, in the interests of our citizens. i am glad that we are holding this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! let me make a preliminary remark: this house voted over 500 votes in favour of the constitution. that is why we have the legitimacy to defend this constitution before the citizens and we welcome the commission's doing so with us. the second point i would like to make concerns the area of foreign and security policy: i believe that the commission has put forward a number of good proposals and that it is the right approach to develop a foreign policy voice based on the economic strength of the european union and to take account of recent developments, in particular the possibilities offered by the constitution. i think, mr schulz, that it is quite clear that prevention should be given priority. but without military capability, you can't enforce prevention, because then you don't have the tools to pressure. it has to be both. but of course, the use of military force is always a last resort. we must also ensure that we, as the european union, do this in a multilateral context and not unilaterally. this means that we must move forward in transatlantic relations. mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i wish you all the best for 22 february, when president bush will be here and we will make progress in this area. let me make one more point in the short time i have. we have president yushchenko here tomorrow, and i think we have concluded in the last few days - also through discussions in this house - that we cannot expand the european union indefinitely immediately, because that would destroy the european union's capacity to receive. on the other hand, we see that the action programmes of the neighbourhood policy for eastern europe are not enough. i would ask you to develop new ideas here, including multilateral concepts that could be based on ideas such as the european economic area. i think that's the only way we can relieve the pressure and develop perspective, which is crucial these days. i hope that happens. mr president of the commission, one last word: oppose the council when it comes to designing the european external action service in such a way that it is not aligned with the commission. we want a community europe and not a new intergovernmental authority. parliament is on your side. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i just want to take a few thoughts. we are now in the first half of 2005, and the discussions on the financial framework are also under way. this is, of course, the financial framework, mr barroso, which will keep you busy for the duration of your mandate. i therefore expect that your proposals will also take account of the financial instruments at your disposal to implement what you have set out to do. i cannot understand why you still want to make budgetary payments on the basis of your predecessor's commission. i think that the commission would have to do some follow-up work on this. the same applies to the question of own resources. how does the european union finance itself? perhaps we could also receive new proposals from the commission to usher in an innovative era - not only in your work programme but also in the financing of the european union. let me say something that i have said many times here and in strasbourg: you are right when you say that europe must ensure competitiveness and create jobs. we are eagerly awaiting the commission's review of the proposal put forward by your neighbour to the left, mrs wallström, when she was environment commissioner, that this mammoth project, reach, which does not strengthen the competitiveness of europe but the competitiveness of industries outside the european union, should be reviewed. if you want to do something about job creation, then take reach back and look at it again. i am now reading that mr kyprianou is also planning to regulate the last area of employment we have, namely the frying of hamburgers. i thought, now that we'd finally gotten rid of mr. byrne, we'd be done with this nonsense. you have to ask yourself which model of society you are advocating: the model of freedom or the model of servitude? i supported you because i thought you represented the model of freedom. i ask you to implement this too!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you have rightly included the lisbon theme in your work programme lisbon, so that europe becomes the most competitive region in the world. i'm sure everyone in this room thinks we want to do this. now the question is, how do we get there? europe can play a part, and i would ask you in particular to look a little more closely at smes in your work programme, not just large-scale industry, not just more innovative sectors, which are certainly important, but the big one - and everyone talks about this in the sunday speeches - is smes. unfortunately, your programme does not take this into account in a way that would be appropriate to the importance of this. the other is that you monitor the member states accordingly and point out that the member states need to implement the appropriate reforms. i have high hopes for the commission to do so. i would also like to say that the commission did not start the fight with the council when it first took the oath and when it first fought it, but gave up before. this brings me to the stability and growth pact. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council. as regards the stability and growth pact, i remember jean-claude juncker, who was with us in the committee, saying: 'we must learn'. that's right, politicians have to learn too. so the problem with the pact is that here the sinners - the finance ministers - decide among themselves whether the pact will work or not. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. unfortunately, the commission does not do this, but in the areas discussed here it is following the council and making its life even easier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would add that you should not counter-act as the prodi commission did. the commissioners who were there and helped to shape it have seen it. for five years, mrs wallström, you have been involved in making europe the most competitive place in the world. we are not going to be able to do that, and we are not going to be able to do that.
mr president, mr president of the commission, and madam vice-president of the commission! i now turn to transport, and i think that has been a little too little in the commission's communications. we can order all sorts of things, through all sorts of electronic cables, but the only way to exchange goods is to supply the refrigerator, to supply the computer, and that requires a sensible transport policy. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would like to reiterate the three main points. i think we need the implementation of the internal market also in the railway sector. for 40 years the railways thought there was no single market and that they could continue to pursue a national railway policy. now is the time to open the networks to passenger traffic with the third railway package, to introduce a uniform locomotive licence so that a train does not have to stop at a national border to change personnel. we will only be able to carry out transfrontier transport by rail if it is fast, efficient and well organised. we need to open the network, we need to have a train licence, but we also need to have reasonable rights for passengers when they are stopped, when they are late for a transfer. we have very well regulated compensation in air transport, but there are many more people travelling by rail, and they have the same right to compensation if the railways do not organise themselves sensibly. a second area, besides railways, is the question of the eurovignette. we need a fair burden of travel costs. it must be economically viable, but it must also be environmentally friendly. we must make progress in this area. the last and central point, mr president of the commission, and i hope you have already grasped it, is that we need sound transeuropean transport routes in the railway and road networks and in inland waterways. we really need cross-border transport routes, a network of all modes of transport, so that we can really advance the exchange of goods. we need it to be competitive, we need it to be economically viable and we need it to be environmentally friendly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the priorities that will move us in 2005 from the perspective of european agriculture are quickly explained. the first concerns rural development and its financing. we have the commission's proposals on this and we are working on them. the commission's approach is in principle to be welcomed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we as a parliament will take over. however, rural development is also and especially a question of financing. we must follow closely the work of the temporary committee on the financial perspective 2007-2013. only when we know the financial circumstances and possibilities does it make sense to talk about the content and scope of rural development in the sense of lisbon. on the wto: with the 2003 agrarian reform, we opened up the possibility of negotiating in the agricultural sector. it is now necessary to use this in further negotiations and to adopt a defensive attitude in order to safeguard the european agricultural model. finally, apart from the national implementation, which is of great concern to many of our colleagues, the 2003 agricultural reform has left some questions open. the sugar market, the fruit and vegetable sector and the wine sector are all subject to reform. in all three sectors we should await the concrete proposals of the new commission; it's no use to be in the fog. mrs fischer boel is probably very familiar with the points which are important to parliament and it remains to be seen to what extent our concerns will be taken into account in the proposals. mr president of the commission, think of renewable energy sources, which, if properly supported, would, in my view, be a good alternative source of income for our farmers. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am actually quite happy to have listened to mr barroso today, but unfortunately i no longer have that euphoric feeling that i had when i heard you speak in berlin. giving europe a soul not much of that was remembered today. in your working report the words culture, education and training appear less often than we would have liked in the cultural committee, where we all know very well that these areas play a very important role in the integration process and the lisbon process. i think it is time that we really made the many speeches, the many symposia be followed by actions which the citizens would then really notice and welcome as european added value. you said earlier that investment in education is important and creates growth and jobs, but then, of course, words must be followed by deeds. this includes the need for the commission to increase incentives for language learning, because language learning is important. learning the language of your neighbor is important to building another bridge. this is the prerequisite for the mobility of our young people in the internal market. mr president of the commission, it would be great if you would really sign up to the new lifelong learning programme and the money i am asking for on behalf of my colleagues would actually be given. this is in line with what you are seeking in the lisbon strategy. the preamble to the new constitution speaks of the unity of europe in diversity which must be consolidated. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'cultural area' in the definition of cultural activities. the cultural industry creates many, many jobs.it fits in with the lisbon strategy, as does education and training. 0.03% of the total budget for culture, which is just ridiculous and shameful. i therefore ask you, mr president, and all your colleagues to help europe to have a soul. invest in education and culture. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr barroso, you are a very good man. let me add a few words from the point of view of the right-wing politicians of the epp-ed group. i want to summarize this in four aspects. i am glad that you have taken up the subject of better regulation and impact assessment, which is what we call in english 'cost-effectiveness assessment', in your programme. i would like to make it very clear that we in our committee attach particular importance to the fact that not only commitments have been signed here, as was done in december 2003 by your predecessor, but that the text of this agreement is also taken seriously. this means that we have to have a sound consultation process, and this means - and this is very important - that we have to have a sufficient level of transparency and a real impact assessment, and not, as we have unfortunately often had to do with commission proposals, an impact assessment, which is nothing more than a part of the reasoning behind the proposal. we have similar expectations here, which we are setting out for this new commission. i think it is good that you have mentioned a number of aspects of the action plan on company law which the old commission had already proposed. i would like to emphasize that there are two aspects which are important from our point of view: firstly, that a proposal is also being put forward for a right to vote between a monistic and a dualistic system, the company constitutions, and secondly, that the principle of one share, one vote - which we discussed very intensively in the last legislature - is also being enforced. in the context of intellectual property rights, we welcome the commission's intention to submit a proposal to regulate collecting societies. we are also asking the commission to examine whether its current strategy with regard to the european patent is correct, and whether there is no danger that, at the present stage of the council's deliberations, it will end up as a monster, which in any case the smes cannot afford. perhaps we should wait for the constitution to be adopted and then make a new proposal on a new legal basis with new majorities, which will then produce something reasonable. last but not least, and i ask you to keep this aspect in mind, i believe that the most important soft law legislative project of this parliamentary term is the harmonization of civil law. here, groups of professors are currently working on a reference framework that will shape european civil law for over 100 years. i would ask you, as president of the commission, to keep an eye on this as well.
mr president, mr president of the commission! when citizens of our member states are asked what is most important to them in their daily lives, the need for security is at the top of the list of priorities. the success of the commission and the european parliament will be measured by whether we can provide people with security in their home, in their homes, in europe. i therefore expressly welcome, on behalf of the epp group, the proposed strategic guidelines and agenda points and the priorities mentioned. however, i would like to point out that political will and its implementation are often not the same. the improvement of control and surveillance of the external borders in our enlarged european union is one of the areas of activity mentioned by the commission, in which we will give it our full support. the council will, however, have to decide where the seat of the border agency will be, so that it can begin its work. the introduction of european passports and visa documents that are resistant to forgery would provide a good starting point for effective controls. this includes the inclusion of biometric data in these documents. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union. the commission and parliament agree that we need european mechanisms rather than national measures. but for more than a year now, the council has not been able to agree on a new head of europol. i would like to appeal to the council to take up again the points i have mentioned here and i can assure the commission and the president of the commission that we are on their side.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to focus on the middle east and make a few remarks. i think that with the re-election of abu mazen, with the fact that this election has gone, with the fact that you have found a new coalition government in israel that has gotten votes beyond these party lines, with the fact that we have a new american president who has now entered a term in which he sees no need for re-election, we have a scenario that has been almost unique in the last few years in the middle east. we have seen that abu mazen, through the use of his police and through negotiations with radical groups, has clearly been able to bring about conditions which president arafat has always rejected and which he was unable to achieve. i think that's why we really need to take advantage of this particular situation now. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, and in particular you, mr high commissioner, to make sure that the quartet is not just a body for writing papers and holding talks, but that the quartet, as a body at its highest level, appears personally and collectively in the middle east to say that this is not just any agenda, but that it is the full commitment of the entire international community; the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment. no member of the quartet has the credibility on either side to do this alone. it is only in the context that there is this credibility for such a security concept that can be adopted, so that we have a secure state of israel with secure borders and at the same time an economically viable state of palestine. in order to move forward on this basis, let me make one final remark, mr president. the people on both sides want peace and understanding. we must now help to bring about a coalition of moderates on both sides and not prevent minorities, such as the radicals, from coming to an agreement. that is why we should make this a priority now, because it is in our interest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. anyone who participated in this election, who saw how the people meticulously sealed the ballot boxes, which were transparent and transparent, at seven in the morning, and then with all pride handled everything very precisely during the day, can imagine what this has meant for the palestinian people themselves. the european parliament has been a very important institution in the arab world, and it has been a very important institution in the arab world. and the desire for peace was felt; the conflict was tired and the call for a boycott of hamas was not heeded. i think that all those who have always said to us - there was this here too - "arafat is the guarantor of peace, and when he is gone, chaos will break out" were wrong. the palestinian people were much smarter than some who have analysed the situation here in europe had expected, and that is why there is so much hope in what is now being shown. i would like to make a specific request, also for the talks between the high commissioner and the commissioner. if we really succeed, as prime minister sharon has reportedly told the high commissioner, in agreeing to withdraw from gaza in talks with the palestinian authority and in reaching an orderly handover - if that becomes possible - then we should also consider with the un refugee agency whether we should not take the opportunity to convert the refugee camps into permanent homes. the head of the refugee aid agency, mr hansen, was in the united nations working group here in parliament this morning. he described how, in jenin, after the destruction, they started to build permanent houses and finally change this 50-year-old refugee status. i think gaza would be the second option, after an orderly handover, to move the refugees out of their camps into permanent settlements. i would therefore ask that this idea be taken up in discussions with unrwa and the relevant authorities to break out of this situation and into a new era.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a great deal of agreement in this house on the desire to finally move forward towards a lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. the elections of the palestinian president and the reshuffling of the israeli cabinet have raised great expectations both here in europe and among the people of israel and palestine. i had the impression from conversations outside the official program in ramallah and from observing the elections in the west of ramallah that one suffers from the occupation situation, of course, but often one does not speak well of one's own administration. the inability and lack of will on the part of arafat to do everything within the palestinian authority to provide effective structures in the security services, the health services and elsewhere has not been hidden from the people. we have a duty to ensure that what is now being done, such as the withdrawal from gaza, is being monitored jointly by the quartet. i want to see the eu, the us and the other players there acting together against both parties. i think that this successive diplomacy does not make the right impression on those involved. i want them to see that the quartet as a whole is represented with one opinion. it is your task, mr solana, to make plans now for the period after the withdrawal from gaza - that is, for the way we will deal with those involved - so that things can really go on afterwards. otherwise, this conflict will actually become an endless story.
high representative. i am very grateful to the president and very grateful to the honourable members who have been so kind as to accompany us to the end of this long session on a key issue, a fundamental issue, which perhaps deserves greater attention from parliament in these times we are living. i would like to say that the members who have spoken have all spoken with a candor, with a strength and with a hope which i believe represent the spirit not only of the european parliament but also of the majority, i would say the totality, of the citizens who are part of the union. and i think today has been a day, from that point of view, of emotion, of letting our values, our emotions, come out, by our expressions whether they're vocal, whether they're bodily. i would like to say that it's time from now on that we should start to make these sessions have a sense really, a purpose, we should not only let our emotion carry us beyond our reflections, but start to give signals of where we want to go and where we want to go. it would seem to me, ladies and gentlemen, that after the historic moments, and they must be described as historic, that we have lived through, the european union should put in place, as we are doing and sharing with you, a programme of action which must be clear. and that should lead us to the end result of the creation of two states and fundamentally the palestinian state, which is the one that does not exist. and i think we can't keep talking and talking and talking and talking if we don't get the necessary steps in place gradually to make that a reality in a timely manner. i would like to say that from the point of view of our palestinian friends, what they have today is not a state, they have a pre-state situation today, allow me to call it a pre-state, what we have to do is to help them in the most effective way to make the necessary reforms so that they have a state which is viable and which is not a failing state but a consolidated state and, for that, we must certainly help them to make reforms, adaptations of their own structure. it is not the same thing to have a pre-state with the limited responsibilities of a pre-state, as to assume all the responsibilities of a state: which include not only issues linked to the economy, and here i would like to come out in defence of the commission, parliament and the european union as a whole. the way the european union spends money and the way mr fayyad, who is the fiscal officer of the palestinian authority, spends money, is exemplary. and i would like the members of this parliament to see them and the citizens of europe to know them too. the effort made by mr fayyad, the man responsible for finance, together with the effort made by the commission and all of you and the whole of the european community, is extraordinary and is exemplary and i would like to see many other countries, with much more history, without being what the palestinians are a pre-state, have the same conditions to manage their money and to do it in the way they do. secondly, a state is not only an economic structure, it is also a security structure, and today there is no state, there is a pre-state, and we must therefore help them to have solid security structures when they have a state, and for that the european union already has the mechanisms and is already doing so, it is helping to build and consolidate the security forces in the most effective way possible, so that they are useful in the service of their citizens, in the service of peace among those citizens, in the service of law and order which every state must have. finally, in a state there are elections and elections that are going to take place between now and the summer and let me stop in the summer, from the summer onwards we will see what they do. between now and the summer there are very important elections that we have to accompany, that we have to help pay for and that we have to keep mobilizing so that they are dignified and positive elections. and finally, from the palestinian point of view, what the president is doing these days to get a ceasefire, to get an intra-palestinian dialogue agreement, is extraordinary. many of us would not have thought that it could have been accomplished in such a short time. it's done, we have to keep it. now, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware that the situation is very fragile. when the elections were held, days later, the first meeting between sharon and president abu mazen was already scheduled, when it was broken, all possibility of dialogue because of the violence: the situation is fragile, while we were talking here, there has already been another attack, and therefore we know very well that, whatever happens, we cannot let the violent ones be the ones who have the key to how the process progresses. it would be absurd and unfair. we must stop the violence, but we cannot let the violent ones be the ones who hold the key or have the key that allows the process to go on. and let me tell you that israel, as someone told me, must also be asked for many things, many things. and a very concrete one, which they can and must do: the exit from gaza, which was said at one time to be a unilateral decision, can no longer be a unilateral decision, it has to be a concerted decision, an agreed decision and a decision which is the first step on a path which has to lead to the abandonment of the occupied territories. that is what we have to ask for and that is part of the fundamental policy that we europeans have to put in place. i honestly believe, after having spent, as i said, a long week in israel as well, talking to all its leaders that this is not impossible, that this is possible and we have to take our responsibilities too, because i beg you to imagine, i cannot ask you all to go to gaza, but the situation in gaza, for those who have seen it and can share it with me, know that it is dramatic and that the disengagement from gaza cannot mean that gaza is a prison. it has to have the ability to trade with the outside, it has to have a port and it has to have an airport, otherwise the people who are in gaza will never be able to leave. and so we have to help and we have to help to have a port and to have an airport and that port and that airport will certainly have to be put under international authority and we would have to be willing to accept that responsibility, if it is our place. we must be able to face that responsibility. so i think that all these issues are fundamental and that we must concentrate on them in our debates in order to achieve results. it's time to get results. the time we have ahead is not infinite; if we have too much time we will frustrate ourselves, we will frustrate the palestinians, we will frustrate the israelis and this moment of hope that you all have recognized, this moment of pride that exists also between israelis and palestinians, and that there is a community that begins to think the same way in israel and in palestine, that that community does not break and that that community recovers the spirit that it had before, that it had at the time of oslo and before and around oslo. so that's why it has to be done. and i would also like to say to you and to my friends in israel: you must begin by not taking any decisions which go against what may be the final agreements. it's something very important, it's something very simple to say, but very difficult to do. but no decision should be taken that cannot be reversed at the time when the final agreement decisions have to be taken and some decisions being taken at this hour are going to make difficult and even prevent what for many is the fundamental parameters of the final status. and that if we had to say it in a friendly way and in these days when israel is remembering very sad dates, very bitter dates where europeans had many responsibilities, with that friendship and with that courage that must come from the bottom of the heart of europeans, very responsible for many things, tell them with that friendship that i say, so that they really listen to us, because what we are saying goes in the direction of peace and not in the direction of the opposite. i would like to say this to you, ladies and gentlemen, and once again thank those who have been with us up to this moment, on my behalf, and i hope also on behalf of the commissioner and my good friend benita ferrero, whom i thank for being with us. there's a lot of work ahead and we need everyone's help. this is not going to be easy, it's going to be very difficult, but we have to win this battle for peace, not just for israel and palestine, but as many have said for regional peace. if there is peace in israel and palestine, there will also be more chances for regional peace, and what we have been told about iraq, i could tell you many things, but i do not think this is the day to mix the two debates. we have four or five days until sunday, there will be another debate on iraq, but let us also have the certainty and the certainty that this development will take place. so my final reflection: we have lived for the last few years looking at israel and palestine in what we might call crisis management. we must now return to politics, to politics with a capital p and to finding results, because we will have clear objectives and if we have clear objectives and the political will to find them, we will find them. thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the time and thank you to all of you for joining us for this long day. thank you, sir. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. mr president, like javier solana, the commission and i are committed to trying to make these steps happen, knowing how difficult it is and given all the support. that means of course that we are also committed to making the first concrete steps and i would like to mention a few of them because it has been requested. first, we have just agreed for instance to make an additional eur 20 million available for gaza. we are also working very closely with the world bank. just last week i met with president wolfensohn. we take the advice of the world bank very seriously: unless there is an end to violence and to movements of goods and people, any additional money will have little impact. therefore it is very important to achieve improvements on this side. i will also discuss these issues very concretely with the palestinians and with the israelis when i go there on 7 and 8 february. i also want to see what we can plan and whether there are good projects that we can implement in order to help this process really get under way, whether it is on reconstruction or institution-building, and so on. let me also say to mr laschet, we are also supporting efforts to improve the living conditions of the palestinian refugees, to provide better housing and a change of the refugee status. this will require a negotiated solution as is foreseen in the roadmap; this is more difficult. it is clear that it is crucial that we do not lose sight of the political process. javier solana has just outlined this. we also have to ask ourselves what will happen the day after the gaza disengagement. parties need to engage on a political process that goes beyond gaza. this is a key issue that we also have to discuss with president bush and with condoleeza rice when they come to europe. thank you very much, this has been a very engaging and interesting discussion. you can see we are all committed to this process, but i will also add a note of caution: it is a difficult process and it can erupt at any moment. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are discussing a resolution for a difficult day. to a day of remembrance that will take place tomorrow in auschwitz, to the memory of a crime connected with this place, auschwitz, which is a singular crime in the history of mankind. that is why we must conduct the debate here with all due restraint. i am a member of the european parliament, i am the chairman of a multinational parliamentary group, but i am also a member of the federal republic of germany. i am a german, and when i speak in this capacity - both in terms of my function and my nationality - about auschwitz and a resolution on the holocaust tonight, i am of course also speaking as a citizen of a nation, of a country - germany - with whose name auschwitz is inseparably linked. auschwitz is the moral low point in the history of my nation. the auschwitz-birkenau concentration camp was built by germans, by criminals who belonged to my nation, by people who have tarnished the reputation of my country in a way that no one has ever done before or since. that is why a german can never speak about this subject without bias. each generation - including my generation - inherits what the previous generations left behind. auschwitz is part of the legacy that we, as modern germans, have had to take over. i therefore expressly believe - also in my capacity as chairman of this group - that we germans have a special responsibility when it comes to fighting anti-semitism, racism, xenophobia, fascism, contempt for humanity, terrorism and murder. i will be able to take part tomorrow, together with many other colleagues, in the commemoration of auschwitz, together with josep borrell, as the representative of my group. tomorrow the federal president of the federal republic of germany will also be there. if, 60 years after the liberation of auschwitz, germans can commemorate it together with others, if a german can travel there as chairman of a multinational parliamentary group and, together with colleagues from other countries - from russia, poland, israel, france, italy and many other countries - can remember it and, in remembrance, restore a piece of the dignity of the victims, then we owe this fact to the european union. it has made it possible for us germans to return to the democratic family of nations with our heads held high, where we, as germans today, can make our contribution to democracy, human dignity and the fight against racism and xenophobia. that is why my group supports this resolution and we german members in my group - and i believe in all the other groups - support what is written in this resolution. (applause from the centre)
president of the council. mr president, tomorrow, as the honourable member mr schultz said, a large number of heads of state, representatives of this parliament and representatives of other parliaments will be meeting in auschwitz to commemorate together with survivors of the inferno the liberation of the death camp 60 years ago. as representatives of a new europe, they fulfil the duty of memory and the duty of transmission which is more necessary today than ever. the presidency would like to thank the two members for having, through this question, encouraged a moment of reflection and remembrance in this very parliament, which, i would remind you, in 1979, after its first direct elections, elected as its president a survivor of auschwitz, mrs simone veil, to whom i would like to pay tribute for her courage in presiding over this house. sixty years is less than the life of a human being. it is an opportunity to give voice to those few survivors who bear the stigmas of this unspeakable and unspeakable horror which must nevertheless be said loud and clear today. the holocaust will forever remain a gap, a fracture in european history, and you have said it well. as the former president of the bundestag, mrs rita süssmuth, has said, the holocaust is nothing compared to anything. we understand that the history of this 20th century is marked by genocides, but the holocaust has its specificity, it has its uniqueness. it is the negation of our very civilization, of our spiritual and ethical values, it is the negation of the humanism that europe has created. auschwitz is not just a piece of history, an intolerable piece of history. auschwitz must remain a painful, present reality; a reality that encourages present and future generations to better understand and reject all ideologies of hatred and exclusion, to make concrete on a daily basis, i would say, this awareness of "never again". the obligation to recall, however essential, is not sufficient. we need to be collected, but we also need commitment and action. anti-semitism is still present. the vienna observatory even notes an increase in anti-semitism in our societies, as well as racism of all kinds. the revisionists and the deniers, all those who try to relativize the uniqueness of the shoah, all those who make excuses by establishing unacceptable links must be fought. it is a crime against truth, to use the words of president chirac, which must be prosecuted in a europe based on ethical values and respect for human rights; the european parliament has already expressed its views on the draft constitution, which is now being incorporated into the draft constitution largely approved by your parliament. but it's also a crime against the memory of all those who suffered. i think in particular of the tens, hundreds of thousands of children whose lives have been taken away in the most abject way; their sad eyes, as you can see in the pictures. may these frightened eyes remain etched in our consciences and urge us to wage a determined and active struggle against oblivion and, worse, against the denial of absolute crime! mr president, the defence of human rights, and of all those who are today victims of attacks on their dignity through anti-semitic and racist excesses, is one of the cornerstones of the european union's policy. to this end, the council and the other european institutions cooperate closely with international organisations such as the council of europe, the osce and the united nations in the fight against what are truly scourges. the council welcomed the initiatives taken by the osce, in particular the adoption of the berlin and brussels declarations condemning all manifestations of anti-semitism and all other acts of intolerance. the creation, at the osce ministerial meeting in sofia, of posts of osce personal representatives for the fight against anti-semitism, racism and islamophobia should reinforce the work of the office for democratic institutions and human rights, the osce office in warsaw, whose mandate is to monitor anti-semitism and other forms of intolerance. at the 59th session of the un general assembly, a resolution explicitly condemning all forms of anti-semitism was adopted on the initiative of the european union. on the occasion of human rights day in new york on 10 december 2004, the union recalled the importance of education, which is essential if a culture of respect and tolerance is to be fostered which is compatible with the safeguarding of fundamental rights. the creation of the european monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia is part of the council's and the union's overall desire to equip itself with the necessary tools to combat the various forms of intolerance. the work on memory with young people - i have read the paragraph on history books and the teaching of history which must be promoted at european level - is a european initiative which must be strongly supported, and the presidency will work on it. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the commission is fully aware that the fight against racism and xenophobia is not over when faced with a resurgence of anti-semitism, xenophobia and openly racist events. this resurgence is a source of great concern for all of us. on numerous occasions the union’s institutions have reaffirmed their commitment to defending human rights and have condemned all forms of intolerance, racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism, which are direct violations of the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law. these are the principles upon which the european union is founded and which are common to the member states. the commission is tackling racism, xenophobia, racial and religious discrimination across a wide range of programmes and initiatives, from anti-discrimination, justice and human rights policies to education and research programmes. the commission intends to continue and to reinforce its efforts in the fight against racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism. in particular, the commission has repeatedly called on the member states and the council to adopt the framework decision on the fight against racism and xenophobia, which it proposed in november 2001. this proposal would require member states to ensure that racist and xenophobic behaviour can be punished, and that there would be approximately the same criminal penalties across the eu. this proposal would also improve judicial cooperation between member states, thus making it easier to bring the perpetrators to justice. in the commission’s view, the adoption of this text would offer europe the legal framework it needs to fight efficiently against the scourge of racism and anti-semitism. we hope, in full agreement with the luxembourg presidency, to resume talks on this proposal in the coming weeks. finally, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the commission has recently launched its annual call for proposals for the commemoration of victims of concentration camps. this initiative is aimed at raising awareness, particularly among the younger generation, of the atrocities that were carried out in these camps.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner frattini, ladies and gentlemen of the council! the founding fathers of our european union had a basic idea more than fifty years ago: peace for the people of a continent devastated by two world wars. i would have liked to have seen men like schuman, monnet and adenauer in this european parliament today, at this moment. it is a day on which members of parliament from 25 member states commemorate those who were liberated from the nazi death camp auschwitz-birkenau 60 years ago. a day when we remember all the jews, roma, homosexuals, poles and other nationalities who were murdered there and in other camps. i, speaking as a german member of parliament, am aware of the acts committed by germans in the name of my people more than 60 years ago. i accept the responsibility that my people and my generation have grown out of it. the fact that we are here today to commemorate the suffering, to call on people not to forget the concentration and extermination camps and the crimes committed there, is the only way to serve as a warning to future generations against a genocide rooted in contempt for others, hatred, anti-semitism, racism and totalitarianism. we, the representatives of the citizens of this united european union, condemn together all forms of intolerance and incitement to racial hatred, in particular all acts and manifestations of anti-semitism and all acts of violence motivated by hatred or intolerance towards other religions or races. we also condemn attacks on religious sites, shrines and sanctuaries of jews, christians, muslims and other faiths, and all violent attacks on minorities. we must therefore all work to promote cooperation and dialogue between the various social groups. we must be bold and public in condemning intolerance, discrimination and racism. we must not forget or suppress our history, now or in the future. our founding fathers faced theirs, our history. they have come together in a small circle to create a peaceful europe, a free and democratic europe and a secure europe. it is now up to us to continue to work on this responsible task in a large circle. let us prove ourselves worthy and capable of this task, so that this continent can develop peacefully in all its diversity in the 21st century; the european union is a great example of the kind of europe we want to see, a europe of peace and a europe of peace. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my group welcomes this resolution and very much hopes that an overwhelming majority of this house will send the right signal at the right time. it must be shocking to any democratically minded person that even after more than 60 years there is a tendency in europe and worldwide to downplay or even deny the barbarism of national socialism. it must be shocking that people are able to formulate a classification of people according to their origin, religion, political or sexual orientation as a party platform and still be eligible to vote for it. unfortunately, we have not been spared such representatives in this parliament either. it is therefore good and important that the european parliament should take a clear stand and unconditionally condemn all forms of intolerance, incitement to racial hatred and all forms of anti-semitism. it's always the same: defend the beginnings! let us work together to ensure that education for young people, exchange programmes and visits to holocaust memorial sites become compulsory in schools and universities. perhaps the young people will be able to break the concrete out of the grandfathers' heads, when they themselves are obviously unable to do so. let us also think together about how we can counter nationalist tendencies in this parliament. i would like to ask how long we will tolerate the deliberate expression of anti-european sentiment and let such national flags be silently opposed to us here. i would also like to draw your attention to an incident which took place last week, which is unacceptable to me and which has affected me particularly because it happened in my own country. it's about the appearance of npd representatives in the state parliament of saxony in germany. these gentlemen, who to me were wolves in sheep's clothing, refused to take part in the silent commemoration of the victims of national socialism. moreover, they mocked the victims by calling the allies mass murderers for the 1945 air raids on dresden and talking of a bombing holocaust. this is a disgrace, not only for saxony or germany. i think that saxony and germany need a clear signal from europe that such ideas are intolerable and should be rejected. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia, and it is therefore very important that the european parliament should be consulted on this matter. i was pleased to hear your contribution, commissioner frattini, and also your contribution, minister schmit, because you are clearly determined to make progress here. if people are allowed to make inciting speeches again and again, this cannot be allowed to be a secure platform in the name of protecting the right to compensation. this is unbearable. let us all take a moment of silence tomorrow to send a message. i assume the bureau has made this provision; i have not yet found it on the agenda.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have been called by colleagues here on several occasions for what i have said. i therefore ask you, mr president, to allow me to speak on the rules of procedure. there are a number of colleagues who have difficulties with this text in that they feel that i, as one of the applicants, do not want the words 'german national socialists' in the text. that's not right. neither were these words found in the original text. but i want to say to you, mr. sonik, if these words can lead us to commemorate the victims tomorrow, then i recommend to my colleague that you add that this is a concentration camp run by german national socialists.
in writing. as a lesson from the crimes of the nazi era and as a mandate to future generations, article 1 of the german basic law states: "the dignity of the human being is inviolable". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the composition of our societies is changing: on the one hand, young people and increasingly young people with a migrant background lack direct personal contact. the forms of history teaching must therefore be reconsidered, particularly in schools. this means that teacher training and teaching content and methods must be adapted to this demographic change. schools are a central place for intercultural understanding. this potential must be exploited. an increasing concern is the rise of anti-semitism in radical muslim circles in europe and, as the 2003 eumc study found, particularly among young arab muslims. so in a group that is itself potentially a victim of exclusion and racism. but anti-semitism in any form is inexcusable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of young people in the community. their social integration is of the utmost relevance for a confident resistance to anti-semitic positions in their own social environment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to table an oral amendment to recital a. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. we are all in the difficult position of having to weigh every word carefully on a day like today, and we have to keep in mind - whatever formulation is used - the dignity of the victims and the guilt of the perpetrators. in order to take account of all these considerations, i therefore propose that we amend the second sentence of recital a to the original text. the original text reads: "sixtieth anniversary of the liberation of the auschwitz-birkenau death camp, which was established by hitler's national socialists "... we propose that in the german version "hitler's national socialists" be replaced by "nazi germany". then the text would be: "...of the death camp auschwitz-birkenau, established by nazi germany"... in the english version, it would be "nazi germany's death camp". i believe that this expresses the guilt and the special responsibility of germany and at the same time makes it clear that it was the nazis who took this guilt upon themselves; it is also a tribute to the german victims, who were there. i therefore ask for your approval of this amendment. (applause from the centre)
mr president, after the many discussions that have taken place on this subject, i would like to express our support for this oral amendment on behalf of the group of the european people's party.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that's all there is to it. if you were to vote on mr sonik's oral amendment and on my oral amendment - mine, by the way, was one which supplemented the original text and which should also reject the uen amendment definitively - if you were to vote on it now, we would be exactly where we want to be: namely, having a text which is appropriate to the dignity of today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the prime minister of pakistan was in parliament this week. i would remind you that the parliaments of pakistan have repeatedly urged the establishment of democracy and called on president musharraf to separate his civil and military functions. he has promised to stop wearing military uniform in public from 1 january 2005. but nothing happened, he's still doing it. i believe that this parliament has always been for democracy and against dictatorship. we should therefore support the pakistani parliaments in their demand for more democracy and, in our contacts with pakistani authorities, urge president musharraf to keep his promises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have heard with pleasure and great approval what you have just said about the visit of the american president to brussels. our group has always strongly supported the need for the president of the european parliament to be present, whatever form such a meeting takes institutionally. i appeal to the european council and to the governments that there should not be a discussion like the one we have had in the past days and weeks. i would like to thank the president of the council, mr jean-claude juncker, specifically for making this result possible, but such a discussion should not be repeated. parliament is of course included when the european institutions are visited by a president - in this case the american president. i hope you will have a good stay in brussels tomorrow, mr president. the european parliament is at the heart of european development, and it is good that you are there tomorrow. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not think i understood what you were saying in a purely formal way. our group would be in favour of the situation in lebanon being included in the debate on the mediterranean on wednesday morning and we would be thinking of a suitable form in which we can then discuss this subject in some detail in march, perhaps on the basis of an oral question to the council and the commission. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i was a little surprised to be called. but i hope my contribution can help solve a small problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't know if i've got this all wrong. you said the council must be done by 6:00. does that include question time? on wednesday we have the question and answer session with the council, and the council must be present.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this parliament should expressly welcome the referendum in spain and the clear 'yes' of the spanish people to the constitution. i think we should thank the spanish government, but also all those involved, for informing and mobilising the public and in particular for involving civil society in this campaign. i myself spent several days in spain with other colleagues and saw how open, democratic and peaceful the whole thing was - a true expression of european democracy. what has been said here by the polish member is completely absurd and certainly the opinion of a small minority in this parliament. but the turnout also shows that more information is needed. mr president, we should call on the governments and the commission to finally pursue an offensive information policy on the contents of the constitution. we have no more time to lose here, since the next referenda are already coming.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the speech we have just heard was not the speech of the ppe, it was the speech of the french gaullists. mrs grossetête, i warmly invite you to join us in the content of your speech, and we shall soon have majorities for socially responsible policies in the european union. i have seen the deep horror in the eyes of my colleague mr pöttering and i have been happy to note that. the commission is not alone. i'm glad you found your way to us despite the difficult deadline situation you're in. i want to say it explicitly! we all know you had some trouble getting on the plane back to london. the fact that you are here is a good sign of the cooperation between the commission and the european parliament. i would like to make this point explicitly. i have given you enough pleasure with that, because i have to make one or two remarks which i think will not make you very happy. i do not want to go back to the question of whether it was right that you appeared in a commercial for the psd in portugal. it's over now. but i would like to make the following serious suggestion: we must make a decision on the negotiations on the framework agreement. there is a clause in the framework agreement between parliament and the commission which is clear. the commissioners are not prevented from taking part in political activities in their home countries. they must discuss this with the president of the commission, as this framework agreement provides. and the president of the commission will give his approval or his scepticism where necessary. but there is no rule for the president, who of course should be a role model. i personally have no problem at all with commissioners or you as president of the commission having a political line and making it clear to the outside world. i know where you stand on politics. you do not have to go around pretending that you have become a political neutral since you were elected president of the commission. so, if you stand by your opinion, i agree, but then everyone, the president, the commissioners, or everyone else, does not. but sometimes yes and sometimes no, that's not possible. that is why i propose that we settle this question in the framework agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i had said on behalf of our group in the last discussion we had on your programme of work that the glass is half full. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i'm not going to. social cohesion is in the front seat - at least for us social democrats, mr president, and we will not dismiss you from this demand. you present your programme of work with social democratic elements, but then you give an interview in the financial times which goes in exactly the opposite direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i therefore propose that you go along with our social democratic proposals, because the problem with the european union is that if we do not make it clear to the citizens that this union offers them social security, but allow the citizens to have the impression for a longer period that what is happening in brussels is destroying social security, this brings us more risks than opportunities. as long as we allow this, the people of europe will turn their backs on europe. this is because the neoliberal approach - perhaps not by you, mr barroso, but by many of your commissioners, and what is much worse, by many of your officials in the commission - is presented as a matter of course, as a matter of everyday life; that europe is only good if it is deregulated, flexible and always going down in social terms. as long as this is the main theme in your commission, the atmosphere will not change in favour of the eu. we social democrats were not elected to support a neoliberal policy, as envisaged in the bolkestein directive, but to guarantee the two sides of the coin we have been discussing for a long time. on the one hand we need competition and flexibility, but this increase in competition and flexibility must serve the other side, namely social stability. i therefore ask you to stick to what you have said in your strategic guidelines and to what you have presented to us together with margot wallström and günther verheugen in the lisbon strategy, which is precisely what it says. flexibility and more competition: yes; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if you read our resolution, you will see that we are prepared to cooperate with you in a very constructive way, but only if you are prepared to work with your commission to achieve a social europe. then we'd be happy to shake your hand. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not prepared to accept this. you have just offered a positive complicity between the commission and parliament. i would like to mention two such cases of complicity for the sake of my group, the green group. you yourself have named the current occasion: it's the upcoming talks with the us president in brussels. i think that after condoleezza rice's charm offensive in europe, the next few days and weeks will and must show - and that is in the iran issue - whether we have only a common goal and are still going in separate directions, or whether we can develop multilateral steps and eliminate the danger of unilateralism, as we have seen in the context of the pre-emptive strike against iraq. i would like to expressly encourage you on behalf of my group and urge the commission to do everything possible to persuade the us government to actively support the european negotiating strategy of the three eu representatives in the forthcoming talks. let me mention again the common objectives of both the americans and the europeans and the european member states. our goal is complete consensus. we must prevent the further proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east. we must push forward the development of a political strategy for the whole of the wider middle east based on the european security strategy. we must be able to make iran's refusal to use its nuclear programme for military purposes binding, and we need unlimited access for the iaea to inspect all of iran's facilities. these are the conditions for creating a safe environment for israel as well. i am convinced that the right course of the european negotiations has a much better chance of being positive if we can convince the us president not to just sit by, not to just rattle the sword verbally, not to leave the question of the pre-emptive strike open, but to put an active review of the economic sanctions against iran on the agenda and also to talk about security guarantees for iran. i think we can make progress in this area if we also remain true to our principle of respect for human rights. i would like to make a specific appeal to the commission not to postpone the human rights dialogue with iran while the negotiations are in progress, but to intensify it. i say this with great regret, especially since i have had to note that the german government, which is actively supporting our negotiations on behalf of the eu, has initiated deportation proceedings against a 26-year-old woman who was separated from her iranian husband and who converted to the christian faith. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in iran and the situation in the middle east. i believe that such a divided policy makes it difficult, but we must succeed in making a coherent human rights policy in europe a majority policy. then we're credible on iran as well. i don't want iran to succeed in trying to play the europeans against the americans, because we have the same goals. i would like to stress this again. i would like to mention here one point on which my group agrees with the president of the united states: the question of maintaining the embargo against china. if we say that the criterion of respect for human rights is the basis of our european foreign policy, then we must take note that the human rights situation in china is still dire, and that is why this parliament adopted a resolution a few weeks ago rejecting the initiative of chancellors schröder and chirac. we expect this embargo to be maintained and not to be put forward for economic interests at the expense of human rights.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. even if the subject of the debate is the commission's legislative and work programme for 2005, this debate can of course only be placed within an overall strategic framework, which is shaped by the lisbon strategy and unfortunately aims primarily at strengthening competition - and in my view also by the wrong means. operating profits of the major european union companies increased by 78% in 2004. the ratio of income to gross domestic product has almost reached its highest level in 25 years. the trade and monetary balances have again shown a strong upturn in the last 12 months. even in the federal republic of germany, where the large companies constantly lament that they have no chance in the competition for locations, 46 of the 50 companies listed in the dax recorded unprecedented profit increases in the first three quarters. at the same time, unemployment is rising. the debate on the extension of working time, in whatever form, is growing. the workers are being asked to withhold wages, which in reality represents a fall in real income. social benefits are being cut or drastically increased in price, and systems based on solidarity are increasingly being shifted towards private financing. this action does not lead to an increase in demand but to a decrease in demand. we think this trend is wrong! yes, we need competition but in line with the gothenburg criteria, to achieve the lowest possible unemployment, high consumer protection, social security for citizens in a healthy environment, social cohesion through solidarity and sustainable development. we therefore have no choice but to ask the commission to stop its neoliberal economic policy, to withdraw its directives on services in the internal market, as well as its working time directive, and to propose instead directives for better protection at work or for the harmonization of social standards! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. together with the council, change the stability pact by counting education and training expenditure as an investment and deducting it from the debt ratio! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to do it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, which is still needed in the european union, for example in the areas of biodiversity, waste prevention and treatment and the sustainable use of resources. increase your influence on climate change, because the us, china, india and brazil need to be more involved! this would be the right way for the european union, and this would promote sustainable development and this would create jobs, and not continue or reinforce the old, long-outdated ways that have proved to be wrong.
the council has already taken a decision on this. i think you've addressed it: this is a good day! we have seen the result from spain, which puts us all in a better position - not only for the referendum campaign, but also by making it clear that a large nation has chosen this political project by a large majority. here's another step for tomorrow when you see president bush. we have all realised - and this must be reflected in our policies - that only joint action makes us a factor. and this action is valuable, because otherwise i cannot understand condoleezza rice declaring that the european constitution should be adopted. this is also a whole new tone in american politics. let me also thank you, mr president barroso, for having made it possible for our president to attend the meetings tomorrow. i would like to raise another related point, namely the question of neighbourhood policy. i think we have not come far enough here, and president yushchenko will be in this parliament on wednesday to find a new way forward on this great challenge of democracy in eastern europe, to bring eastern europe into the european union. this means that we urgently need more than the neighbourhood policy, because otherwise there will be increased pressure to talk too quickly about full membership, which we cannot deal with immediately because it would lead to an overstretching of the european union. we must open up a perspective to the people in these countries, and it is therefore worth considering whether it is not possible to have an option besides full membership which does not mean saying no to full membership, but which opens up perspectives for later, but which can also bring something immediately, as was the case in the past of the european economic area, from which sweden, finland and austria have come into the european union. i would ask the commission to give this matter some serious thought, because i fear that we will soon be in a difficult situation. because it has become very clear this afternoon that we are giving these countries, which were victims not only of the second world war but also of the subsequent dictatorship, a perspective which makes democracy possible and at the same time strengthens us in such a way that this european union remains capable of action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by making a brief comment on the political content of the speech made here by mr schulz in particular. i believe - and this is also reflected in the debate we are having about the lisbon strategy - that the lisbon strategy has several pillars. there is no doubt that all these pillars are, in principle, equally part of this strategy. but on the other hand, it is a given that without a functioning economy, there can be no sound social policy and no sound environmental policy. this is the precondition for the other good deeds to be translated into political action. that is why we must also set the priorities in the right order, without forgetting the pillars. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. i think that this is also a truism that should be said at this point. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. the two responsible vice-presidents of the european commission, who co-signed both the lisbon paper and the programme we are discussing here today, are socialists. perhaps it would be appropriate to make a remark like that in the margins. the commission should therefore be in the best of hands, and i do not understand what this extended discussion about alleged differences, which do not exist, is really about. i have a particular concern in this connection, and that is that the commission must also give particular priority to the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement with the council and parliament in the context of this legislative programme. this is crucial! one of the reasons why things have not worked in the past as they should have has been the lack of impact assessment, of legal impact assessment, and the inadequate way in which stakeholder consultation has been carried out. i would ask you, mr president of the commission, and you, madam vice-president of the commission, to ensure that the interinstitutional agreement is implemented consistently in this respect, particularly in your work over the coming months. the success that you and we all want to have in many areas is also a result of this. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, mr barroso, you have put your speech today under a beautiful motto: prosperity, solidarity and security! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council. if you really want us to achieve prosperity, solidarity and security for our citizens, you must go much deeper into this service directive than you have suggested today. if you are serious about partnering with us, with all the institutions, then you will have to go much further. and, mr barroso, we must not forget something even more important: partnership with the citizens of the european union, with all 450 million citizens. we make politics for them, and no one else.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. ladies and gentlemen! the meeting of the world economic forum in davos was a complete success. the global elite of business, politics and science have made it clear that they are fully aware of their responsibility for global problems and that they are ready to act. bono, the lead singer of the irish band u2, put it very pragmatically, he said, if you want money, if you want help, you have to talk to those who can help and give money. that is why the meeting in davos is so important and so good: it is precisely these people who are coming together. the same cannot necessarily be said of the world social forum, and also in the results, one can be - i think - much more critical. ladies and gentlemen, it may have surprised the critics, but the main topics at davos were africa, the problems of growing global poverty, the question of how to make globalization work for everyone, and how to make sure that there is fair global trade. we liberals are convinced that free trade is the best form of development aid. free trade is what helps the countries that want to develop, and free trade is also what encourages the developed countries to become more and more competitive. the eu should take the lead in this area. it should put free trade first on the agenda, especially in the areas where there are still trade barriers, namely agricultural policy. we liberals are also firmly against any introduction of a global tax on financial transactions. we do not help those who are poor to become richer by making ourselves poorer. it is also an illusion to think that solidarity is increased by introducing new taxes, so to speak, imposing a financial penalty on those who are supposed to help. no, the real means of creating solidarity is a global change of consciousness and a willingness to take other forms of aid. we therefore support and think it very sensible that the issue of debt relief has played such a central role, and we believe that full debt relief should be made available to those countries which are moving towards democracy and which are committed to establishing a sustainable and also free economy. the long-term impact of such aid is, however, only if it is not a one-off measure. so once again, free trade is what the developing countries and the developed countries alike need most and what will take us forward. if we want world trade to be fairer, we should first of all aim to make it freer.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. i welcome this debate first of all because i believe it is urgently needed. i have heard a lot of rhetoric, however, especially from you, mr barroso. but there is a trend to use words that sound nice, and yet to do the same policy as before - this is relatively typical of the world economic forum in davos. the famous scientist elmar altvater has described the world economic forum as what i would call a big showcase event, but unfortunately not much comes out. but what's interesting is that the terms and the topics have changed. we can go so far as to say that the critics are increasingly determining the agenda of this world economic forum. these critics met at the world social forum in porto alegre, where 150,000 people debated and protested against neoliberal and neo-imperial policies. the social forum movement is essential, both for the anti-globalization and the anti-war movement. the european parliament has been involved in a number of very specific debates: human rights for all, not just those in the western countries, the defence of the commons, against social degradation, against war, against indebtedness - in this context, where is the debt cancellation for the countries affected by the tsunami? - and against poverty. environmental issues were also on the agenda. for example, i participated in a water forum. let me get this straight . the world social forum was not only a protest against and criticism of us policy, but also your policy, the policy of the european commission and the policy of the european council. that has to be said very clearly. the european union is losing more and more credibility in these areas, because it is now following a similar path to that of the united states. she's kind of following in the wrong footsteps. the participants in the world social forum did not play the game that we see here from the council of the european union, from the commission, but also from many parliamentarians, which is to point the finger at the usa and to talk about their own policies. my question is: is something like the bolkestein directive an alternative? i'm not going to. it is a neoliberal concept. is what we read in the eu treaty - the imposition of a military obligation or the open market economy with free competition - an alternative? i'm not going to. the eu is a global player, as you said, mr barroso. but what global player? that is the central question. we must be clear: free trade is not the recipe for an adequate response to the policies we have at present. what needs to happen is a real apology. what needs to happen is that this neoliberal, economically liberal policy is ended and that the whole thing is not accompanied by a militarization of the european union. i would like to end with a quote that was adopted there. it says: 'we demand the immediate withdrawal of occupation forces from iraq and support all efforts to bring them home.' we support efforts to mobilize the soldiers, conscientious objectors and families of military personnel against the war. we support anti-recruitment campaigns and demand political asylum for deserters". that's a very clear statement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ideally, globalisation is a key to greater competitiveness, growth and improved living conditions. but reality is not just different these days. the world economic forum in davos and the world social forum in porto alegre are therefore all the more important for regular discussions on the methods and effects of globalisation. the recent world social forum has produced over 350 proposals on globalisation. i hope that this jungle will be lightened and reduced to a few recommendations, which are all the more important. effective action requires crystal clear basic thinking. the world economic forum proposed three priorities: reducing greenhouse gases, increasing funding for the poorest countries and eliminating trade barriers within the wto. i am not aware of the corporate social responsibility, the responsibility of companies to act on their own initiative. the economic weight of enterprises is not the only factor that counts, but also the extent to which they are involved in society. the leading transnational corporations have a turnover greater than the budgets of the un member states combined. i wish mr ackermann of the global player deutsche bank had read this recommendation. he would certainly not have announced in the same breath that he was going to eliminate over 6,000 additional jobs when he announced a 16% return. his method - smart sourcing - is translated by the person concerned as profit-seeking coupled with irresponsibility. it has every chance of becoming the unword of the year 2005. back to the positive. both the world social forum and the world economic forum are important platforms for inspiring debate. i therefore believe that in future not only the president of the european parliament but also the representatives of our specialised committees should take part. global elites need the representatives of the people more than ever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we sometimes have cases where the commission or the council or parliament or two of them or all three of them are way ahead of the citizen or a relevant group. we're too fast, too ambitious, and we're too tired to take people with us. in this field we are talking about tonight, we are all being held accountable because the results we achieve matter, or better, the results we do not achieve matter. the commissioner, we are not only lagging behind the reality of crime in this field, because it is not only organized crime that is now transnational, but also individual crime. we are also lagging behind both in the will of the citizens who are entitled to it and in the political will to ensure that 21st century crime is not met with 19th century means; and unfortunately, sometimes it seems that information is requested and delivered by dispatch. we need an improved flow of information. this is not to do with reduced data protection, as many fear, because data on certain areas of qualified crime committed in kehl are just as important in offenburg as in strasbourg. the exchange of such data has nothing to do with the right of the citizen to protection and nothing to do with the right of the perpetrator to protection of privacy. it is not a question of trust between member states, but simply of the trust of the citizens of this continent, of the trust of how well or how badly we are dealing with this issue. if there is a conclusion to be drawn from this, it is that we ask - as a major german newspaper has done - whether the citizens want a uniform criminal law, and the answer is yes. the conclusion of this report is that everyone should say clearly whether he wants real improvements or not. he shouldn't be hiding behind software glitches.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i thank the rapporteurs and the honourable members who have also spoken to call on the commission to act and to act quickly. i shall try to give not exhaustive answers - of course i have no time - but some information which may be useful to parliament. the commission will present a communication on mutual recognition and the development of the principle of mutual trust by the end of april next year. this communication will cover most of the issues covered by the two reports under discussion today and will deal with the evaluation of justice, the training of judges, the harmonization of certain procedural rules and, in this connection, i would also like to add that we will be presenting a green paper on the presumption of innocence later this year: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. at the beginning of 2006 we will present a second green paper, on the collection of evidence, which will certainly be followed by more comprehensive initiatives on the enforcement of alternative sentences, as well as an interesting and, i hope, extremely useful initiative: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the conditions for the release of prisoners are met. you know that the issue of pretrial detention, that is, pre-sentence detention, is an issue where the rights of individuals to freedom must be balanced against the right of the state to prosecute offenders. these are just a few examples of the initiatives, important ones, i believe, which the commission will be presenting in the coming months. i would be happy, ladies and gentlemen, if the member states in the council were as courageous as you have been today in the matter of exchanging information on criminal records. the commission would certainly like to see the computerised information exchange system moving forward more quickly. we have already started a discussion last month at the council of ministers in luxembourg and we intend to continue it. but there are technical problems and, as some have pointed out, political problems. the level of mutual trust which will allow us to provide an electronic search engine, which technically can be done very quickly, with the data on reported convictions is still lacking. as mr di pietro has rightly said, these are not new data but conviction data which can be used by the judiciary. so we will be very careful to avoid any use of that data outside the reasons that will be explained by the judicial authority, which we must of course give confidence when it asks to know that information. in conclusion, i believe that more europe is needed in this area. we need more europe because we need to harmonize criminal systems which are unfortunately very different and to provide legal certainty when we respect - and emphasize - the independence of the judiciary. perhaps we should worry about harmonizing the rules: there are too many different rules from country to country about what constitutes a criminal association and how and why the promoter of a criminal organization can be punished. well, that's what we have to worry about: the commission has already made a number of proposals to harmonize the penal code a little more, and we will do so with full conviction. finally, we will be careful to monitor how member states comply with these principles. in three days' time i shall be presenting the commission's communication on the european arrest warrant to the council of justice ministers, and i shall make it absolutely clear that italy is unfortunately - and i say this with great regret - the only country in europe which has not yet adopted the necessary national legislation, and that there are also some states which, although they have adopted national legislation, as some of you have pointed out, have tried to reintroduce filters which do not correspond to the european spirit. the arrest warrant legislation is intended to speed up the execution of certain measures; if we want to speed up the process, in the case of terrorism and organised crime, all the member states must have confidence in this system and we will be careful to ensure that european rules are fully respected.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr jonathan evans (a6-24/2005), on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the commission's xxxiiith report on competition policy - 2003 (ini 2004/2139).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. competition policy is one of the european commission's core tasks in the field of the internal market. if we compare the discussion of a few hours ago, we must say that the european union is indeed a global player in the field of competition policy and you, mrs kroes, are the representative of this work, because the report which has been presented and is being discussed here is based on the work of the last commission. i wish you a successful hand in this relationship. the commission's successful work has been instrumental in ensuring that the european market has been characterised by fair competition, which has brought benefits to all citizens, i.e. quality and low prices, since the european communities were set up. it is in this context that the present report by my esteemed colleague mr evans also assesses the work of the commission's competition department in 2003. the decisions taken during this period were, however, still under the responsibility of the old commission. the discussion is therefore now about examining and assessing, in the context of this report, the major changes in european competition law and in the european commission for their effectiveness in the coming years. the changes that would be made are certainly in principle appropriate to maintain the high level of european competition policy. as i indicated in my question, however, i believe that there are some points where improvement would be useful. this concerns, on the one hand, the protection of key witnesses under competition law, throughout europe, the legal quality of network advertising and the safeguarding of protection against double taxation under competition law. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) in the field of vocational training. i wish you luck in the decisions you will have to make in the coming months, so that these decisions are legally binding. i also hope that you will continue to take decisions in the interests of the citizens, as the old commission did. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i wish you both.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank those who gave me positive feedback. i also listened, of course, to those who were more critical. mr evans' support for the idea and the faith expressed in his report was a great start. i set out my own philosophy in my recent speeches at bocconi and at the oecd in paris, where all those national authorities from around the world that are active in the competition field were gathered. those speeches and this report show, i think, that we are on the same track. we are all aware that competition is the instrument for getting our economy in better shape, something that we badly need in europe. we have both a lack of economic growth and a lack of productivity. we badly need economic growth because we have environmental and social welfare objectives that we rightly believe are essential within our culture. i found the remarks that honourable members have made very interesting and stimulating. they mark the start of our dialogue. as i mentioned before, i would be delighted to be invited to emac to discuss this item. concerning competition in technology transfer, there is indeed a way of developing this within our competition policy. it is not a separate item, it is all combined in one policy. regarding mr rutowicz's question about a market definition in merger cases, the commission welcomes, and indeed promotes greater integration of markets. there is no doubt about that. as markets integrate, the relevant anti-trust markets will also become wider. however, for the time being many markets remain national or regional and this must be reflected in competition analysis, including market definition, so that competition and consumers do not suffer. mrs elisa ferreira asked about gas and electricity liberalisation. i agree that it is important to improve the functioning of the energy market. in close cooperation with our energy colleagues, we are investigating the current status of the market. we are investigating the conduct of incumbents in certain markets and plan to carry out sector inquiries. the sector inquires will provide important input as to how the markets function and how they can be improved. it is important to differentiate between preferences for liberalisation. i could not agree more about having a positive attitude towards liberalisation. however, in some cases where liberalisation has taken place there are still activities within that market that we do not accept. when that happens, one should not say 'i am against liberalisation'. we have a duty to find out what the actual situation is and who is not acting properly and not meeting our expectations. mr rutowicz made a couple of remarks with regard to state aid reform. the conclusion of the prodi commission, later repeated by the european council, was that there should be less aid but better aid. in addition, it was concluded that with enlargement we had a further reason for less and better aid for those areas that had already enjoyed the benefit of such aid. we now have to realise that within the ten new member states there is a new territory which we have to improve, where aid could be of great help. with better focus and a better use of tax-payers' money we can concentrate aid where it really generates the greatest value; where it contributes to cohesion; where it boosts innovation, research and development, and risk capital so that small- and medium-sized companies can also play a positive role as an engine of innovation in stimulating the economy. we need to ensure that they have access to risk capital because they need to take their ideas forward. better focused state aid means better economic results and governance and ultimately, better and more secure jobs and better use of tax-payers' money. in early spring we will have a chance to present the action plan on state aid reform. that action plan will include measures to rationalise the state aid framework. i want to reduce a lot of the red tape, a lot of the bureaucracy and i think that notification requirements for straightforward low impact aid should be one of those items we can get rid of, thus focussing resources on checking the more problematic high-impact subsidies. mrs ferreira said that the title was misleading. i think that the title of the report just covers what we are really focusing on. another question was about audiovisuals. maintaining and developing media pluralism is a basic public goal of the european union, together with the preservation of cultural diversity and freedom of access for the union citizen to all kinds of media platforms. the application of competition policy instruments in the media sector is limited to addressing the underlying market structure and economic impact of media undertakings' behaviour. nevertheless competition policy can and does make an essential contribution to the maintenance and development of media pluralism both in traditional television and other broadcasting markets and the new media. mr schwab underlined that the european union is a global player and that therefore it is essential to look at the price, at the quality, and also at the research possibilities to fall in line with our global competitors. it would be a good idea, to focus especially on increasing efficiency and transparency and to work towards a less bureaucratic one-stop shop for leniency applications. this will be explained in the new paper i am preparing which will also support greater efficiency and transparency. i have tried to answer the questions that were raised. again, thanks for the opportunity and thanks again to mr evans and all those who have been involved in the preparation of this report. today's debate is just the start. it is very important to continue the discussion and to feel that you are on the same track as us in the commission.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs sophia in 't veld on aid to compensate for public services.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. it has dealt with a very difficult subject with great expertise and enthusiasm and has produced a very transparent report. we liberals and democrats take it for granted that the public sector must ensure the provision of certain services. but taxpayers' money must be used very carefully and only where it brings real added value to the consumer. clear regulation is therefore necessary. in principle, we welcome the commission's attempt to set up a framework which gives transparency, objectivity and traceability to the use of funds. we want a solution which ensures that competition is effective and that the regulation of public services is not abused to distort competition. the completion of the internal market must not be hampered by the unrestrained distribution of aid, and even more so by the principle of the pot. on the contrary, we want to advocate a solution which will make it possible to achieve the following objectives: the definition of social security should be made in the member states; even if it's not the same, it has to be comparable. we do not see any breach of the principle of subsidiarity. state aid must be targeted and focused where it helps to secure the future. their use in the future should be more restrictive than it is now. the scheme must not impede the further completion of the internal market. we condemn attempts, such as that of the federal minister for economic affairs in germany, to prevent the possible opening up of areas of public service provision by derogating from the services directive. finally, i would appeal to the commission to facilitate the application of the rules by further clarification. the commission should develop benchmarks and best practice examples as reference points. the best practice approach can provide input to other member states on the basis of successful examples.
the commission has already done so. one of the main problems in the application of european state aid law to the provision of services of general interest is legal certainty, or legal uncertainty. it is not always clear to decision-makers in local administrations, cities, municipalities and counties whether compensation for the special costs associated with these services is covered by the aid rules. so, do these benefits have to be notified to the commission or approved by it? failure to do so, even though it would have been necessary, has serious legal consequences. however, if, in the face of doubt, such a notification procedure is carried out, even though it would have been unnecessary, valuable time is lost during the procedure. this legal uncertainty should now be addressed. i welcome and support this. the basis is the judgment of the european court of justice in the altmark trans case, as mentioned above. on this basis, the commission's proposal for an exemption decision is in line with our request in the resolution on the green paper on services of general interest of 14 january 2004. this proposal is an expression of support for a control policy focused on the cases which are essential for the functioning of competition in the internal market. compensation payments which have only a negligible effect on the internal market are exempted from aid control procedures. this is a crucial gain in legal certainty for the local actors. compensation for services of general economic interest which have only a minor impact on the internal market is very often provided in a very limited, local environment. they are therefore a typical application case for the exemption decision in question. provided that the other criteria, such as a clear description of the tasks and compliance with the principle of transparency, are respected, they must also benefit from the increased legal certainty sought. the rapporteur has produced an excellent report. it has had it streamlined by vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i hope that we in the house will understand this as well.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to apologise to mrs in 't veld for failing to mention at the outset that i was impressed by her report. i know it was a difficult job, but the result has been worth it. the contribution this report has made to the debate is really important, so i congratulate her. one of the key motives behind the commission's proposal is to increase legal certainty and predictability. one of the remarks made this evening referred to the need for predictability for those who have to deal with public services and public service financing schemes. as i have already mentioned, we also want to reduce the administrative burden: to get rid of red tape and a lot of bureaucracy not only at european level but also at national and regional level. that is why timing is so essential. the question of the efficient functioning of services of general economic interest is of great importance for the commission, and for parliament, the member states and for the consumer – the european union citizen. contrary to what is sometimes said, community competition rules do not hinder the proper functioning of these services. they do not affect the prerogatives and responsibilities of national, regional or local authorities to define, organise, finance and monitor public services. i very much agree with the idea that we should occasionally review what we are doing. when we consider the altmark court case, it is not that difficult to make a clear decision on three of the four criteria. therefore, i do not agree with the member who said that it is difficult to define a true public service. nor is it difficult to define a contract or to identify the parameters of compensation. as mrs van den burg said, there could be difficulties when tendering is a possibility. when difficulties arise, you need to calculate the costs on the basis of a well-run company. therefore, as far as the fourth criteria is concerned, having implemented this court case ruling for four years we can take our experience into account. we know that in reality tenders are not widely used for small services of general economic interest. under altmark, the compensation paid is therefore state aid and needs to be notified. the commission's established policy is not to restrict the financing of companies in charge of public service obligations. however, we ensure that this financing is really necessary and does not lead to undue distortions of competition. the current proposals respond to the new environment arising from the altmark case. the commission's draft decision seeks to reduce the notification burden as concerns small services of general economic interest. the treaty establishes that the efficient functioning of services of general interest is a shared responsibility between the union and member states. the proposals before you today form a part of the commission's efforts to play its role in achieving this. i welcome the fact that you support the reduction of unnecessary red tape and i will take that into account. the draft decision excludes small public services from the notification burden, thereby matching the thresholds set for small- and medium-sized enterprises. as mrs in 't veld's report suggests, the commission considers this to be the most appropriate approach. the hospital and social housing sectors will also be exempt from notification. this is made quite clear, and is justified by the high amounts of compensation necessitated by the nature of these public services. i very much agree with the idea that the commission should review the application of new rules after a certain period, and after carrying out an impact assessment. in line with other state-aid frameworks, such as the regional aid guidelines and the block exemptions, we suggest that the framework should apply for six years and be renewed, on the basis of a review, for four years in this case. for reasons of legal certainty, the validity of the decision should not be limited in time, but i very much agree with the need to hold a review. it was also suggested that there is a necessity to consult widely on the definition of the public service obligations, particularly where this concerns users. the commission agrees in principle, but it is up to member states and their regional or local authorities to define public services in practice. the commission can only recommend that member states consult widely on that matter. i have consulted my colleague, mr barrot, on the suggestion of expanding the scope of the decision concerning transport. there are several sector regulations in this field, which make extending the scope of the current package difficult. however, i understand that a separate package is being prepared, and your comments on land and air transport links certainly constitute interesting input for that package. a benchmarking exercise, especially the benchmarking of public services and services of general economic interest, would be difficult to carry out. it might not be technically feasible, since public services are structured in different ways in different eu countries. considering the costs – and, perhaps, the limited usefulness – of such a study, i do not think it is a good idea. i am aware of the problem involving existing compensation when the conditions applicable are not met. i understand that member states need a certain period of time to modify their existing schemes. we will consider ways of granting legal certainty for a transitional period. the criteria for the altmark ruling need further work and clarification. in its white paper on services of general interest, adopted in may 2004, the commission announced that it would adopt a text on this issue in 2005. mrs de vits asked about social health and care services, and these are already covered by the draft decision. in the light of the amount of public service compensation generally granted to care services, most should fall within the thresholds for compensation defined in the decision and should therefore benefit from the exemption from notification. on the points raised by ms de vits, the commission supports the recommendation that tendering processes should be used wherever possible, and in most cases in which the altmark criteria have been met there will be no state aid. but we know that, in reality, tenders are not widely used, particularly for small services of general economic interest. i agree with mrs van den burg that we need to take experience into account. in the light of experience, we will have a better and clearer view of how to handle this. if there is no way of tendering, then the cost basis of a well-run company – in this case, a public service company – should be taken into account. i thank mrs in 't veld again. we will certainly return to these matters once we have had more experience.
the debate is closed.
i thank the interpreters for having been here so long, and the other members, mostly women - in fact, we have more women than men in the chamber. (the sitting was closed at 11.10 p.m.)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have agreed in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on a largely balanced report, even if mr goebbels is distancing himself from it today. i think it is important that we give the commission the following four points: first of all: the implementation of the lisbon strategy has been considerably delayed. this is certainly due, among other things, to the fact that the strategy contained a wide range of objectives. the kok group recommended in november that the focus be on a few priorities. this strategy makes sense, and we support it. we encourage the commission to focus its efforts on the priorities proposed by the kok group, and we are optimistic about the commission's comments in this context. we also call on the commission to analyse and draw lessons from the best performance of the member states. the best practice approach can provide guidance to other member states on the basis of successful examples in one member state. secondly, the commission should concentrate even more on completing the internal market, in order to make clear to the consumer the concrete benefits of the great european internal market through better and cheaper products and services. in some areas, there are still closures and trade restrictions. this is not acceptable in the spirit of a functioning internal market or fair competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thirdly, we are not against a reform of the stability and growth pact, as mr goebbels suggests. we are, however, against any dilution of the pact. it guarantees the independence of the ecb and the stability of the euro. we support the commission's approach to strengthening the preventive aspect of the pact. but this does not mean, as mr goebbels may have suggested, that we can borrow less than 3% in good times and much more than 3% in bad times. in good times, reserves must be created so that even in economically difficult times the deficit criterion can be met or only slightly exceeded and the accumulated debt can be reduced gradually. i would like to conclude by saying that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this amendment was adopted but was not included in the final version by mistake. we therefore wish to table this motion again in the plenary as an oral amendment. the text is as follows: the ep recommends that member states implement the long-needed structural reforms to make improving the investment climate a prerequisite for economic growth. the aim is to highlight the enormous importance of structural reforms for economic growth and to place a clear responsibility on the member states. it is time to overcome the fact that the eu is still too heavily tied to the maintenance of outdated structures. in addition, member states should take targeted measures to tackle the shadow economy. the shadow economy is a barrier to healthy growth and stability. this is the only way to get us quickly closer to the lisbon objectives.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. of course, we can continue as we have been doing in matters of european economic policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the excessive deficit of the member states. we can continue to do all this and be sure of the applause of those who benefit from this kind of policy. the only thing we should not do is to tell europeans that these policies will promote growth and employment. who can seriously believe that an extension of working hours, as called for in the report, will create additional jobs instead of destroying more? who can seriously believe that continued cuts in public investment will boost domestic demand rather than drive more small and mediumsized enterprises into bankruptcy? who can seriously believe that privatization will increase employment rather than reduce it, after the experience of privatization so far? it is true that the economic data of most european countries are poor, but it is a lie that the cause is lack of competitiveness. in many european countries, labour costs have fallen in recent years; the situation is particularly dramatic in germany, where workers have had to accept an average reduction in real wages of over 2% in the last year. has this resulted in a particularly high number of jobs in germany? quite the opposite! the unemployment rate has reached a new record high. exports, however, are also affected, and not just in germany. the only thing that policy priorities as set out in this report can achieve is to further increase the return on capital of european global players and exporting groups. this may please the european round table of industrialists, but for the majority of people it is a disaster. our group will never agree to such a policy, but we will do everything to ensure that there is growing resistance to it.
the commission has already done so. we are talking about the lisbon strategy and about europe becoming the most competitive region in the world. we have not been able to do that in the last five years. we have now found the main culprit: the stability and growth pact. the motto is: if we do away with it, europe will be better off and we will make better progress. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. germany is even going so far as to say that the abolition of the stability and growth pact is worth a higher net payment to europe. commissioner almunia, your predecessor, the spanish socialist, mr solbes, has said on several occasions in this house that the stability and growth pact is flexible enough. i can only agree with him. what is not possible is that we say we will keep the 3% and the 60% and then start calculating, as chancellor schröder did, before or possibly after the procedure. we are also being sold this as lisbon, with the slogan: in future we will no longer be able or have to take into account anything that is growth-intensive in the procedure. it's being considered. the german economists say: 'in the end we will have a deficit of 8% or 10%.' all this is not punished accordingly. if we are to take lisbon seriously, we must first take the stability and growth pact seriously and not argue that ten countries are in breach of it. i would like to see the speed limitation act according to the motto: if the radar trap is caught often, the speed limit is raised accordingly so that not so many people are punished. rules are meant to be obeyed. we have to take lisbon seriously. taking eu legislation seriously by reviewing each new directive accordingly in future: does it oppose or promote the lisbon objective? the member states must be careful not to torpedo internal market legislation where they are uncomfortable with it, and the commission must hold member states accountable where there are errors. it must introduce benchmarking and make this very clear. we in europe must realise that the world is not a glass, but that we are in global competition. we must finally respond to this so that people know that we take this matter seriously.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr karas said this morning that we are faced with decisions on the direction we should take. i guess so. that's right! but directional decisions can only be made by someone who can see the horizon. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. you know very well that the broad guidelines of economic policy are the most boring document that has been on the brussels market for years and years. what are your proposals in the economic committee for the modernisation of this instrument? where is your contribution to a meaningful discussion? structural reforms, i hear! that's right! the commission has already made a number of proposals. but you know very well that structural reforms can only work, can only lead to more growth, can only lead to more employment, if they are embedded in an active industrial policy, if they are embedded in an active policy for small and mediumsized enterprises and if they are embedded in a cyclical budgetary policy. when i look at your proposals, i have tears in my eyes. you must read your texts before you decide! that would be helpful! they want a general reduction in the level of taxation. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report. they want all people to work longer. why don't you help us increase the employment rate so that more people can work? europe has more of it. that is why you can only hope to get our approval if you include reasonable amendments. otherwise we can't agree to this nonsense.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the member states undertake to ensure that the budget is close to balance or in surplus. this is a promise from the stability and growth pact, which has been broken by deficit sinners like germany. they use economic problems as an excuse. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. what was imposed in 1997 by the then german finance minister theo waigel in the european interest was a serious guarantee of stable prices, budgetary discipline and the ability to respond to structural changes, such as financing the ageing society. this is not neoliberal left-wing politics, it is also in the interests of the workers. the luxembourg presidency has announced a modification of the pact - not an easy task. berlin wants to abolish the deficit procedure altogether, and the small euro countries rightly insist that this treaty be observed to the letter. they did their homework. jean-claude juncker says in our committee on economic and monetary affairs that the 3% ceiling and the deficit procedure will not be shaken. i am also in favour of the european commission retaining its powers, from sending out blue letters to imposing fines. but unfortunately, you have announced an intelligent interpretation of the pact. isn't that a softening? you were right when you said that greece must be held responsible if we are again given false data. but shortly afterwards - or else correct this - you apparently gave the germans the prospect that the cost of building the east would be deducted as a special burden, and then other countries would come and say: our investments in education or in the military or in infrastructure must be deducted. then we'll have creative accounting, and the pact will be a sham. this is a numerical acrobatics and not a guarantee for the citizens. i agree with the excellent report by our friend othmar karas; the confidence in the euro must not be betrayed by tricks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr rasmussen said that reforms are not possible without economic growth. the opposite is true: economic growth in europe will not be possible without reforms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are talking today about the goebbels and karas reports, and they present the difficulties we face with a common monetary policy and a decentralised budgetary and financial policy. the stability and growth pact was established as a link, as a necessary precondition. the political will to reform the stability and growth pact is shaking the foundations of the maastricht treaty and european monetary union. the budgetary rules are one of the key foundations of economic and monetary union. the european parliament has made a commitment to the citizens of europe to reduce the public debt, which is now being reduced after only six years. the rules are intended to maintain credibility and confidence independently of the governments concerned, but - and you have repeatedly said nothing about this, commissioner - the stability and growth pact has a serious design flaw. the eu commission has too few powers in the review procedure. the sinners are in the courtroom, and it can't be good. if the ecofin council does not apply the rules to itself, the commission is powerless. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is not the rules that matter, but the political will. the commission wants new rules for good times. that's true, but naive. if the pressure does not help, how can it be voluntary in good times? the social democrats and the communists have not understood the changes brought about by the euro. before the euro, the market openly and understandably punished those countries which had taken on too much debt: with high interest rates on government debt, with high inflation rates and with devaluation. in 1992, the difference was still 6 percentage points. (interruption of the debate) listen to me for a second. you know i'm right. 6 points! that difference is gone. there is no longer a market forcing governments to exercise financial discipline. until this issue is addressed, either by the ecb or by a differentiated valuation of government bonds, we will not be able to keep the euro stable in the long term.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, the european commission adopted in november 2003 a proposal to amend the 1999 decision establishing a community action entitled 'european capital of culture'. this decision covered the years 2005-2019, the period in which we are now. the only aim of the commission proposal on your table is to enable the ten new member states to participate in this cultural activity as soon as possible and to be in a position of equality with the other member states, applying the principle of equality. this means that, from 2009, the new member states will host the european capital of culture, both in cooperation and in competition with other member states. in 2009, as mentioned, it will be lithuania together with austria. in the second phase, at the same time as requested by the european parliament, i will propose to the college another change before the summer of this year, which will involve an in-depth analysis or an in-depth revision of the designation procedure for this community activity. this proposal should also include what mrs christa prets has just mentioned, such as the european dimension in cooperation, i.e. its strengthening, the role of the selection panel, the national competition and so on. in fact, many of these questions or issues have already been raised at the first reading and i will of course take them into account in shaping the way forward. the commission will also take into account the results of an independent study which focused on the previous 10-year period of this cooperation. as regards this second reading, i am pleased that the report has also been adopted by the committee on culture and education and also endorses the council's common position, which is in line with the commission's proposal. this means that this decision can be taken relatively quickly, of course on the basis of a specific procedure. i would therefore like to conclude by thanking the european parliament, the committee on culture and education and in particular rapporteur christe prets for the good cooperation they have shown on these issues, and of course i would also like to thank the irish and danish presidencies for the previous year on this matter and the luxembourg presidency for the continuity of cooperation. i am glad that this change will bring concrete results, because its adoption can significantly help and directly affect the relationship between cities and citizens in the common enlarged european union.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we would not be talking about the european capital of culture today if in 1999 the council of ministers had not had the impudence to not even consider the new members expected until 2019. only ministers can come up with such ideas. the mps were smarter then. we have therefore to make a necessary correction today, and we are prepared to support it. we will have two cities in the future, one from the fifteen old states and one from the new states. i think that's fine, too. then there is the cooperation between two cultural capitals. in 2010, for example, one city in germany and one in hungary will be the same. of course, mrs prets is quite right: the financial resources will not be sufficient. once you've made a mistake, the punishment is even harsher. so we need more money for the cultural capitals in the future. this should also be included in the financial framework. i am of the opinion, unlike mrs prets that each country must submit at least two cities to the european jury for selection. i would like to take the example of germany and tell you what we have seen in recent years, how much movement, how much creativity has taken place in germany in the cultural field, because ten cities are vying to become cultural capitals. there is a tremendous amount of ingenuity to be found. there are colloquia, symposia, where all the cultural actors and also economic actors participate. i just think it's a really great movement, and it only happens when there's competition between people. germany will now propose two or more cities to the jury. there can only be one. but all the other people who applied, they've probably made a lot of noise in their city, in their country, in their neighborhood. that's why i think this is the right way. i just want to ask the jury to be more careful in the future that this is about something that we have to think about as the beacon of the cities. the european cities are the beacon of our history, of our cultural diversity. the european union has a long tradition of supporting the cultural heritage of the european union, and the european union has a long tradition of supporting the cultural heritage of the european union. i hope that the commissioner will take these aspects into account in his new proposals, including the selection procedure.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i would like to follow the example of my predecessors and emphasise that the history of the european capitals of culture has been a success story. you can always see at one point what you can do better, but overall, we found that for all these cities, the process of self-understanding - creating encounters across europe, opening eyes to the european horizon - has contributed both to the identity of the cities and to a new understanding in europe. we now realize - and mrs pack is right - that it was a mistake not to have looked at eastern europe in 1999 with this decision. it is therefore right that we now correct this and that from 2009 onwards we come to a system whereby not only a country from the old member states but also a city from the eastern european member states is always included. i am deeply convinced that it is precisely this tension between western and eastern europe that will produce good cooperation projects. it is also about the emergence of a new cultural 'we' in each city. europe does not have just one soul, europe has many souls. this is what the european capitals of culture should be showing in the coming years. i therefore agree with the proposals made by mrs prets, both in terms of funding and in terms of clarity on how these cities should be found and nominated.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my group supports this common position of the council, despite the obvious shortcomings, because we believe that the foundations have been laid for organizing fair financing and because it has also solved the problem that all colleagues have already mentioned, namely that the new members of the european union were not envisaged at all. the title of european capital of culture is a very attractive opportunity for european cities and their citizens to present themselves at european level and thus to showcase their cultural, scientific, urban, historical and cultural assets and achievements. in the context of this bid for the title of european capital of culture, many cities are developing their own development plans, and these plans - whether or not they are subsequently selected by their countries - are giving rise to a tremendous development momentum. this leads to infrastructure work, restoration, modernisation and rehabilitation. the use of certain additional tourist development opportunities, which also give cities the opportunity to have more long-term development potential and to present themselves as attractive. if you look at the federal republic of germany as an example for 2010 ten cities are applying, including my own brandenburg state capital potsdam , then you can judge we are now writing the year 2005 the commitment with which this pre-selection process within the countries is working to present the cities. i would like to make a comment on the proposal on future competition. i can very well imagine that it would be possible for each country involved to nominate at least two cities. i would not approve of nominating five, six, seven, eight, that would be too much. what is needed, however, is the same pre-selection criteria in the member states and in the european union. that means the jury has to work by the same criteria. i think that is very important and that is why we should continue along this path. the title of european capital of culture is a title which is really enormously important for many cities.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with what mrs ries said at the end, that the relationship between the environment and health is a particularly important priority for the european commission and europe. i am therefore grateful for the contribution of your committee to the report we are considering today. i would like to thank mrs ries in particular for all the constructive efforts she has made to improve the content of the report so that the final text will provide a substantial and useful basis for any further discussion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not forget that we are not starting from scratch. in fact, having long recognized that environmental protection contributes to better health, we have already done a tremendous amount of work in this area. the upcoming environmental and other legislation, including the reach proposals as well as measures to be taken under the thematic strategies, will further contribute to solving outstanding problems. on current issues, much effort is being made to strengthen the european union's policies aimed at better protecting health and the environment and this is something that will certainly continue. the aim of the action plan is to further this work and to define the agenda for the future. this will address any shortcomings and provide a more effective, focused and cost-effective future environmental policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. as far as biometrics is concerned, we agree. it can indeed be an essential element of our risk assessment policy, as the report suggests. we shall examine this point of view in detail. the commission would, however, like to examine carefully all the technical and economic aspects of the problem in the light of the experience gained in third countries such as the united states. the cost, it should be noted, is very high. we also agree on indoor air. the possibility of developing a strategy and research agenda on this subject will be examined in order to identify the problems involved and to make proposals for possible ways of addressing them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i agree that this is necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the plan. for the period up to 2007, the commission will use the budgets of the 4 directorates-general involved, the public health programme and the 6th framework programme for research. from 2007 onwards, new funds will be allocated under the new financial perspective. the commission is in intensive consultations on the detailed arrangements for implementing the various measures contained in the action plan. another matter of particular importance and necessary for the implementation of the action plan is the regular reporting to the european parliament. the commission will of course keep the relevant parliamentary committee informed as regularly as possible of the progress of the action plan. however, progress on some issues, such as efficiency and cost-benefit, may not be possible in the short term. at this stage, all the necessary data and information simply do not exist. however, more detailed information will be available once the integrated information system is operational. as regards the prohibition of substances, which mrs ries has already mentioned, substances which are dangerous to health are a matter of particular concern to the commission. the action plan is not the most appropriate framework for discussing possible bans. for many of these substances we have already established procedures for their risk assessment and reduction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is carefully examining the report proposal for increasing the priorities in the action plan. however, the increase in priorities will weaken the focus and the results of the action plan. for this reason, it would be preferable to limit the priorities to those proposed in the action plan and defined in close cooperation with 300 experts and stakeholders, and that is why we have also not limited focus, in accordance with the advice of these 300 experts, to children only because there are issues which are directly related and therefore we must also consider adults. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the effective implementation of the action plan will require active and close cooperation with all the parties involved. i would therefore like to thank mrs ries and parliament again for their important contribution in this area. our common objective is to promote stronger european measures to better protect the health and the environment of all europeans, of europe and of the world.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the present action plan for the environment and health 2004-2010 together with the proposals of our rapporteur, mrs ries, are very ambitious. the numerous projects can significantly improve our knowledge of the environmental impact on health and thus give our legislative process a stronger scientific basis. but perhaps even more valuable is that the legislation could be preventive in nature. i may be a little optimistic, but you can still have visions! certainly some projects can be completed by 2010. i am thinking, for example, of improved coordination between the member states in the field of environment and health; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. however, most of the actions will continue beyond 2010. the human-environment relationship is subject to constant change and very often requires new actions and reactions. i think we should prepare ourselves now for the fact that this action plan will not end in 2010. the action plan will only succeed if we do not consider its implementation in isolation from necessary economic processes and constraints and from people's habits of life. it will only succeed if we test research results for their universality and do not want to create a world with laboratory status. risk analysis, not ideologies, must be the basis of our action. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same applies to any substances listed in point 6 which are to be replaced. i agree with the commissioner that the principle of the action plan is being violated here, because we are not supposed to concentrate on things that should be regulated in other european union legislation, for example reach. aside from the fact that the substitutes we have are expensive, we know very little about their exposure. so a certain balance is necessary. i am in full agreement with the commissioner on the issue of smoking: we should not legislate in the european union but inspire the member states to take the right path. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i hope i can now fight against the increasing noise here. i ask you to treat the speakers with the respect they deserve. the present report on the environment and health action plan is too focused on chemicals. many aspects of human health are not taken into account. it is clear that chemicals pose risks. but it makes little sense to create blacklists and stigmatize certain substances such as phthalates. the report is based on an exaggerated interpretation of the precautionary principle. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of chemicals. the report is another attempt at what i call the 'green disease' of many western societies: the creation of a zero-risk policy. we try to do environmental protection with a full-blown mentality, forgetting that the development of an open society always comes with risks. the very existence of a risk and widespread fears about chemicals are used to justify the call for blanket bans. fear is nothing but uncertainty due to ignorance. if you want to do something about fear, you have to do something about ignorance. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european research area. we must not confuse risks with real dangers. the primary objective of environmental policy should not be to exclude risks but to identify and eliminate hazards. the report also goes far beyond the point of view of tobacco smoke. as long as tobacco is a legal product, we should not be looking for a blanket and comprehensive smoking ban. we do not need to regulate from europe where smoking is permitted and where it is not. in the report we call for tobacco smoke to be placed in the highest category of proven and direct carcinogens. i would remind you that the scientific proof for this has not yet been provided. the health risks of tobacco smoke should not be underestimated, but to equate tobacco smoke with substances such as benzene or asbestos is nothing less than ecological populism. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would prefer to speak tonight, or afterwards, because you don't understand your own words. i don't think we can make a speech now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the liberal and democratic group tabled an amendment to the goebbels report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which was adopted by a majority, but which is not included in the final version of this report by mistake. i therefore wish to table it again as an oral amendment. it refers to the necessary structural reforms. i'll read the application in english. the recommends that the member states carry out the structural reforms which have long been needed. in particular, the deregulation of labour markets, the adjustment of social systems to demographic needs, the simplification of tax systems, combining tax cuts and a change in the bases of tax assessment and the abolition of subsidies, so as to bring about an improvement in the investment climate as a prerequisite for economic growth. stresses finally that the development of quality jobs will be accompanied by an improvement in labour productivity in europe.' (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to inform the house that we had a coordinators' meeting yesterday where the coordinators of all the parties, including the committee chairmen, confirmed that this motion, which was just read, was accepted but has disappeared from the report due to an editorial error. it is therefore a matter of fairness to vote on this motion now.
in writing. the united left group rejects the report because it does not counteract the pressure on the commission to privatise public services, which is being intensified in some cases. it is becoming more difficult for local authorities, regions and member states to provide services, often legally required, in the interests of their citizens. public enterprises will have to compete even more with global service companies. the provision of public services for citizens will continue to deteriorate: the market does not count social standards or needs, but only the demand that can pay. in particular, it is to be criticised that compensation for services of general economic interest is still in principle considered as 'state aid' and thus subject to state aid control. in addition, few public enterprises will receive any compensation at all. the report also strengthens the commission's proposal on hospitals and social housing. instead of extending the proposed exemptions - at least to care services, education, culture and public media - bureaucratic constraints are now being demanded in general. the report makes no mention of the employees of service companies or of general interests of the common good, such as the social protection of the weak. the large service companies are profiting from privatisation campaigns in the service sector. anyone who wants to be the executive arm of their demands must know what they're doing.
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety and many ngos see the european union's natura 2000 programme as being in serious danger. the commission that preceded you last year made very vague decisions on the financing of this natura 2000 programme, so that it is already clear that there will be a huge battle between the defenders of natura 2000 and farmers in the committee on agriculture and rural development and in the regional fund. we therefore believe that you, commissioner, must be very committed to finding a clear solution to how natura 2000 is to be strengthened in the future. in this case, it is not a question of the amount of money, nor is it so much a question of the individual programmes, but of the fact that we are also transposing the content we are linking to this natura 2000 programme into actual policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have for many years encouraged member states, through the habitats directive, to designate areas in their own countries, provided that they have the necessary funding. it is not a very good sign if we now go and cancel these funds or perhaps even take them out of the whole agricultural or regional budget. the debate is scheduled, and that is why we are addressing our oral question to you today, asking you to take a strong stand against this problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not need to tell you that there is a strong agricultural lobby, of which i am a member as a farmer; so the fight is pre-programmed. i would encourage you to make sure that there are clear rules in your commission. i'd be very grateful. i hope we can pass this regulation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr dimas, i would like to make a preliminary remark. i am aware that as environment commissioner you are in the continuity of the european institution 'commission'. so everything i am about to say does not refer to you personally, but to the commission. firstly, i believe that the reason why we as a parliament are faced with the natura 2000 dilemma is that the commission has not dared to propose a proper financial instrument. that's the one. we have made a commitment in the ffhg directive on cofinancing, a commitment to make contributions, but we have not provided for anything of the kind in our funds. secondly, the commission has not dared to insert a general condition in the regulations now in force - the structural funds regulation and the rural regulation. it says "could", "should" and "could". that's not enough. we'll find that one. we all know where this is going. the regions in the member states are to submit the operational programmes and the commission is to evaluate and approve them. we know that. paper is patient. in the current funding period, for example, we have included the promotion of women's interests in the structural funds regulation. parliament has been quite active in this. and what happened? the member states are doing next to nothing! this is not right! that is why we need a separate instrument for the promotion of natura 2000. parliament itself is convinced that we need a separate financial instrument, because we only have to look at the opinions of the various committees on the financial perspective. the commission has already said that the protection of biodiversity is not a genuine rural policy. we know what that means. our farmers also do not want to pay for natura 2000 from the rural development fund.
the commission has already done so. in my home country of germany, there is an unwritten but clear rule: whoever orders, pays. and as we know, without money, not much happens in this union. the european union has commissioned or arranged the european-wide networking of the natura 2000 network. however, europe has not yet defined precisely what needs to be done, regulated or triggered in the designated areas; commissioner, you have just pointed this out. the commission now estimates the cost at €6.1 billion per year. that's a lot of money. but depending on the size of the final remit, it is also very small for all 25 member states. we are currently obliged to draw up management plans for ffh areas at national and regional level. it is easy to imagine that in a field as difficult as environmental protection, the conditions vary from one area to another and therefore the measures to be taken vary. questions remain to be answered, such as: why is it necessary to spend more? are there any changes in the use of land which will lead to a loss of income and loss of property for farmers? the commission now proposes to cover the costs of the commitments by using existing eu funds. i am concerned about this development, and the fight for money - karl-heinz florenz has described it - will then begin. it is necessary to create a specific financing instrument which allows for the compensation of restrictions resulting from the designation of natura 2000 sites on a global basis. that's the demand, jutta haug, that the peasants have. it is not acceptable that an increase in the fifg compensation allocation should be at the expense of agricultural and environmental measures or other rural development programmes. the additional tasks and costly obligations imposed by the european union must also be adequately financed by the european union. this will also ensure that the contents of natura 2000 are protected.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mrs frédérique ries (a6-0008/2005) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the environment and health action plan 2004-2010 (ini 2004/2132).
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission should actually make legislative proposals with its action programme. they are a must for an action plan, and i hope, mr dimas, that we agree that the protection of children should be at the heart of that action plan. the commission has put forward this scale programme, but what have you done with it? we may have to spell scale now as stopping caring about legislating for the environment. and that is the great criticism of your proposal, mr dimas. they may have taken over from the old commission, but it cannot be that an action plan is just research, research and research. that there is no single measure to really reduce the burden on the environment and on health, especially that of children. nor can it be interpreted as meaning that the lack of scientific clarity is being used to further delay the measures until st nimmerlein day. that would be to reverse the precautionary principle! what we expect, commissioner, is that you will take action, and i am very glad that the european parliament has given a clear signal today: we cannot accept your 'no action plan'. because your plan of action is really nothing but a plan of non-action. we agree that the protection of children must be an absolute top priority in the european union. i am therefore puzzled as to how you can dare to present such a 'non-action plan' to parliament and still present it as an action plan. i think that this is not only an insult to the intelligence of parliament; it is also a real mockery of what we expected and what the commission had proposed. i would like to say to mr schnellhardt, as a colleague, and also to the epp group: i do not think it is right that, under pressure from the tobacco industry lobby, it is now being said that passive smoking has nothing to do with carcinogenicity. this is really a real exploration of reality.
i would point out to you and to the other members that only those parts of the debate which are held in an official language of the european union can be interpreted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
the next item is the report (a6-0016/2005) by mr mathieu grosch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the driving licence.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the epp-ed group congratulates the rapporteur, mr mathieu grosch, on his excellent report on the commission proposal for the third directive on driving licences. it has put forward detailed proposals for improvements to the introduction of a future single european driving licence and has developed citizen-friendly regulations, for example, for the driving of caravans or motorhomes. it also made clear proposals for improving what is known as driver's licence tourism. it is not in the interests of road safety that a citizen whose driving licence has been rightly withdrawn in one country can immediately obtain a new driving licence in a neighbouring country. in this respect, he has worked out this principle of combating driver's licence tourism in an excellent way. my group, however, rejects the report on two points. mr president, like you, the commission is opposed to the forcible exchange of existing driving licences. such an exchange of old driving licences would not be conducive to road safety, since the only thing citizens would have to do is go to the office, take a new photo and have a new document issued. this does not mean more traffic safety, but at best easier police controls. if you compare the added benefit of easier police checks with the burden and strain on citizens - at least tens of thousands of citizens who will never travel to another eu country would have to obtain a new driving licence - this is too much of a burden, and my group and the commission reject this. the second point on which we reject the report concerns the compulsory limitation of the period of validity of driving licences. there is no profit for road safety here either. it just means that the citizen has to go to the office, have a new photo taken and have a new document issued; the rapporteur has rightly said that his driving licence is valid for an unlimited period. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report. we don't want to force the exchange of ids. we do not want to limit the validity of the documents.
i have to say, madam president, i am glad that you are chairing the meeting because i know that you are a very careful and safe driver and have a great interest in road safety in general. the fact is that driving licences in the eu are often tricked, cheated and forged. the situation is facilitated by the more than 110 different models we have in europe at the moment, and let's be honest: in germany, in particular, many still have the famous so-called grey rag, which has occasionally been introduced to the washing machine. this gray rag, the youthful photo, may be a beautiful souvenir for its owner, but it is no good for identification at a traffic stop. you know, my first job was as a cop. but what is the poor policeman to do in palermo, bordeaux, madrid or elsewhere, when he is presented at the traffic control with a shredded piece of waste paper with which no one can do anything? if we expect young people to get plastic cards as driving licences today, then it is quite reasonable that the old rag with a very long transitional period - the rapporteur has made a very good proposal to that effect - should be replaced. mr jarzembowski, forced exchange - we have seen the situation in the gdr under a forced regime - forced exchange is a german word which means that money, the dm, had to be exchanged for eastern money. i am not saying that we should be too cautious in our communication when we talk about european regulations. the rapporteur has, as i said, made a very good proposal. i thank him for that. the last point, which has already been raised, is that we must finally put an end to driving licence tourism. if you are stripped of your driving licence in germany today, you will no longer have to pass the medical and psychological test - in germany it is popularly called the "idiot test" - and then you will go to the czech republic or elsewhere and get a new driving licence for a small amount of money by using a residence trick. this cannot be the situation in europe in the long term; we want to put an end to this with the directive, and that is why i hope that mr grosch will get a large majority in the vote tomorrow, including from the epp.
i am not going to go into detail. you know we have to hold question time now. that is why i am interrupting the debate at this point. it will be continued tonight at 9 p.m.
member of the commission. it is undoubtedly correct that any impulsion that could be given to the area of services in the eu would have a major economic impact. as members are aware, approximately 70% of the union's gdp comes from services. therefore, any way of giving a major boost to this particular area would have a major impact in terms of jobs. the services directive is an attempt to open up this particular area and to achieve that major economic impact. i am aware of the various studies carried out on the number of jobs that could be created. however, as the member is also very much aware, the draft services directive has provoked a considerable amount of discussion within member states and in all areas throughout the eu. as the member is further aware, i am working with meps and i hope we can ensure that, when the services directive passes through its various processes, it will have a very positive economic impact, having taken on board the legitimate concerns of parliamentarians and others.
membre de la commission. the position that was agreed when the accession countries were joining must be adhered to. if some member states are invoking other procedures which do not conform with the accession provisions, then the commission will follow these up and action will be taken. it is true that some member states negotiated special provisions and if they are operating in accordance with those, there will be no difficulties but if others are not, action has to be taken.
commission. the information in the question could refer to at least three different possible problems, each of which has to be addressed differently. if there is circumvention via ukraine of anti-dumping and/or anti-subsidy measures imposed in a number of third countries – such as australia, china, india, indonesia, korea, malaysia and several others – then community producers should lodge a request to initiate anti-circumvention investigations in line with the relevant provisions of the basic anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations. if the product is of ukrainian origin and is imported into the community market at dumped prices thus causing injury to community producers, the latter are encouraged to lodge a request for the initiation of a new anti-dumping investigation in line with the relevant provisions of the basic anti-dumping regulations. the commission's trade defence services are at the disposal of producers to explain the relevant requirements and procedures for anti-dumping measures to be exposed. if it is a case of the falsification of certificates of origin, the customs authorities and the eu anti-fraud service – olaf – should be called upon to act. olaf's responsibility to protect the financial interests of the european community include the investigation of irregularities and illegal trade in the framework of existing community legislation. that would include any irregularities identified in the community's anti-dumping and anti-subsidy legislation. i want to add that no investigations are ongoing in this field for the time being and olaf does not have any records on this situation. however, olaf has good working relations with the ukrainian customs authorities. in conclusion, i should like to reiterate that the commission is grateful for the information provided by the honourable member and it will examine any relevant information provided by european industry. on the basis of that information, it will take appropriate action.
commission. as the honourable member knows, that comes under commissioner mandelson's portfolio, so i cannot give a detailed answer to the supplementary question. however, i can promise that i will duly inform my colleague and, if he thinks it appropriate, then he will certainly start an investigation into the matter.
the commission's vice-president the first question i would like to answer is the question of the implementation of the transeuropean high-speed railway. i would like to answer mr posselt as follows. the paris-strasbourg-munich-budapest eurotranversal is one of the thirty priority projects of the trans-european network decided by the european parliament and the council on 29 april 2004. in fact, these are priority projects no 4 'eastern high-speed railway line' and no 17 'paris-strasbourg-stuttgart-vienna-brastislava railway line'. some of the projects of common interest under this axis are at an advanced stage of preparation or implementation, notably the tgv east between vaires and baudrecourt, or the development of the danube railway line between salzburg and vienna. other projects, especially cross-border sections between member states france-germany, germany-austria , are experiencing considerable delays, mainly for financial reasons. mr president, in order to coordinate better the efforts of the various national and regional partners, public and private, interested in this project, the commission intends to appoint a european coordinator. i hope that i myself will be able to propose to the commission very soon the appointment of this coordinator. the commission has already been making significant contributions to the financing of projects for a number of years. for example, eur 315 million has been allocated to the project on the eurotran in germany and austria, under the budget line for the trans-european transport networks, an additional eur 66 million is planned for 2005 and 2006 and, for the period 2007-13, the commission has proposed to increase the budget for the trans-european transport network to eur 20 million. of course, mr president, the adoption of this proposal at this budgetary level is the bare minimum to be able to accelerate a project like the eurotransaction. i am therefore very much hoping that the financial perspective, as proposed by the commission, will be approved by our member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to say that i am pleased with the commissioner's very specific reply and also with his wish to appoint this person. i think that is important, otherwise this important link, which can be extended to prague and elsewhere, will remain a castle in the air. that is why i think we must push this forward. i have two very specific additional questions to put to the commissioner. firstly, what is the planning for the rhine bridge from strasbourg to kehl, which is only a preliminary project and which would be a small but important part of this project, which is an absolute priority? secondly, what can you say about the cross-axis from brussels to luxembourg to strasbourg, which is also under discussion?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the issue of the driving licence directive has caused a great deal of excitement in my own country. i am very glad that many of the points which people rightly criticised in those days are no longer relevant today, namely the question of health checks for older road users. a lot has been said about that. as regards the question of time limits, we should take into account the fact that the member states have very different cultures and traditions. germany has had a driving licence for over a hundred years; no other eu country can claim that. we have our own traditions, others have theirs. it makes no sense for the european legislator or the european parliament to go beyond what the member states have agreed to. the introduction of the cheque card has been possible for over five years and it is the member states' own fault if they have not yet done so. but it is the member states' job to do that, not ours to impose it on everyone at european level. let me address another criticism: the new license should have a chip on it; it costs money and does nothing. why did we have a discussion about number codes and such like in the last parliamentary term? so you can understand the license in all countries. we don't need a chip that costs nothing and doesn't do anything. i'm very glad that the problem of the trailers has been solved. i have discussed this matter with the rapporteur very intensively and i think we have found a good, practical and citizen-friendly solution. let us also find a citizen-friendly solution to exchange obligations and similar matters. we're more likely to annoy people by trying to make them happy from here than by trying to benefit them. that is why i am asking you, commissioner. the commission has the honour to give its final decision on the 129 amendments which have been tabled. you 're very close to the council position; the commission has already made a number of proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the common european driving licence is long overdue, not as an additional model but as the only one. it may be interesting to look through the catalogue of the 110 models currently in use and to study their validity and safety features. the exchange of old driving licences will not make a licence holder drive more in accordance with the law. it will not lead to any improvement in the safety equipment of vehicles, but it will improve the freedom of movement and contribute to a considerable increase in safety for citizens, whether they are on the road or not. the updating of driving licences is a safety feature, it is not bureaucratic and it is carried out in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. in the secondary context, member states should allow for the exchange in a variety of ways, including in the context of a vehicle registration or the regular main examination of a motor vehicle. both are much more frequent than the updating of driving licences, are very bureaucratic and, moreover, are much more expensive. the safety benefits for every motor vehicle user abroad are already there when, thanks to his current legible driving licence, the annoying and annoying inconveniences of road checks and car rental are a thing of the past. discomfort which has been shown to cause stress and thus road traffic hazards. in the context of counter-terrorism, i consider a driver's license that can be checked to be perfectly legitimate. the person in possession of the card must be clearly identifiable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. if we are serious about combating driving licence tourism, we need a register of issued driving licences in a network of national registers. we will achieve this target by 2030 under the conditions agreed by the committee. we should not put off our goals any longer.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. with all due respect, somehow the pollution is coming. the rapporteur has pointed out that we are behaving a little schizophrenically, because whenever there is a disaster, we are all outraged; we're excited and the public is there. but the daily - and i stress this - daily mess on european and international seas does not seem to concern the general public. the numbers speak for themselves. the commission proposal at the time stated that 390 illegal oil spills had occurred in the baltic sea in 2001 alone, and 596 in the north sea! the environmental organisation oceania estimates that 3,000 illegal discharges take place in european waters every year. that's 3,000 too many. this must not remain a cavalier offense, but must finally be prosecuted as a criminal wrong and be severely punished. to investigate and track, you need tools. it has been said that the member states have their responsibilities, of course, and at the same time we need an efficient european coastguard in the future. we won't have it today or tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow, i think it must come. the prosecution and punishment of criminal marine pollution must not fail because of national vanities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i want to congratulate her and thank her for doing a very, very good job; that we 'll meet here and finish tomorrow; i think that we do not need a conciliation procedure, but we can conclude it tomorrow. the council's framework decision commits itself to applying harsh penalties to criminal marine pollution: fines, imprisonment, prohibition of economic activity. the commission and the council want to be active in the imo. it is not understandable, for example, that you are still allowed to insure against fines for marine pollution. this must then be amended accordingly in the imo. the agreement on a feasibility study is an important first step towards a european coastguard. i would like to congratulate the presidency for its cooperation with us. the country of luxembourg is not really known for its large coasts, but luxembourg at least has a very large fleet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that we all have a great deal of responsibility for nature, for the oceans. that is why what we decide tomorrow should be put into practice very quickly. our coasts, our seas and the creatures that live in them will thank us.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be able to present to you today the proposal for a directive on river information services. this directive, which was also requested by parliament in its resolution on the white paper on european transport policy, aims to harmonize information services on community waterways. the commission has long recognised that inland waterway transport has great potential as a substitute for congestion problems in other transport sectors. in other words, water transport is often cheaper, more reliable and more environmentally friendly than other modes of transport. river information services offer an extraordinary opportunity for inland navigation. they are based on modern information and communication technologies and allow better planning and management of traffic and transport. they include services such as information on waterways, navigability conditions, traffic situation, capacity in ports and terminals. they also include disaster mitigation services. by making it possible to plan journeys more precisely, to adapt more easily to traffic conditions and to navigability conditions, river information services lead to a reduction in fuel consumption and thus have an impact on the reduction of emissions. in addition, river information services offer the possibility of controlling the transport of dangerous goods and thus responding adequately in the event of accidents and possible ecological damage. the deployment of information services will contribute to the modernisation of the river network; it will increase safety, reliability and efficiency. the directive has a twofold objective. on the one hand, it wants to give the administrations that provide the services, the users who use them and the industry that produces hardware and software the security necessary to invest in this area. the directive also aims to make applications interoperable and compatible at national and european level, with the obvious possibility of ensuring continuity with services of other modes of transport. the directive does not oblige the private user to use river information services, but we are confident that the strengths of these services will lead users to exploit them and that industry will understand the commercial opportunity presented by river information services technology. she'll offer it at a reasonable and affordable price. this is all the more important as the companies in the inland waterway transport sector are small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission will be following this development closely. the council reached a general approach. i am glad that the rapporteur and the committee on transport and tourism responsible for this matter have sought agreement at first reading. it is a constructive approach between the two institutions which should enable us to adopt the directive quickly and start the implementation of river information services. i would like to thank mrs sommer and the committee on transport and tourism very warmly for supporting this approach. three points are worth highlighting: the interoperability of services, the implementation deadlines and the matching table. parliament has done well in emphasizing what is at the very heart of the directive: the interoperability of services and the compatibility of equipment, and i thank the rapporteur for that once again. a compromise was reached on the implementation period of 30 months. that's a reasonable amount of time. as regards the correlation table, the commission naturally regrets that the obligation to provide the correlation table is not contained in an article but only in a recital. despite this divergence of views, which must be settled at institutional level, we believe that we cannot jeopardize the adoption of this directive which, once again, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, will facilitate river traffic and give it renewed safety and functionality. i think it is very important to be able to use this potential for circulation and mobility. that is why i thank parliament in advance for welcoming this proposal for a directive from the european parliament and the council.
the rapporteur. the commission is not contrary to the announcements made in sunday speeches and the statements made in declarations of principles, the interests of inland waterway transport are often neglected in the political reality of many member states. as commissioner barrot has already said, it was the european commission that took care of this when, in its white paper on the future of transport policy until 2010, it set the objective - and i quote - 'the use of inland waterway transport as an alternative means of transport must be promoted so that there can be a significant shift of transport from road to waterway'. we are still a long way from achieving this goal. it is obvious that many people have difficulty in really appreciating the importance of inland waterway transport. the transport sector is, as has been said, of such crucial importance in the eu. it was therefore high time that the commission gave substance to its white paper announcement and presented this proposal for a directive on inland navigation information services in may last year. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. the european union has over 30 000 km of canals and rivers, linking hundreds of major cities and industrial centres. the so-called core network links the benelux countries, france, germany and austria. despite the enormous potential of the whole network, in fact only 7% of all inland transport is carried on our inland waterways only 7%! on the other hand, with the increase in traffic - which is of course also due to the very welcome enlargement of the eu to the east - road, air and rail have long since reached their limits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the transport services provided by the railways. the draft directive now before us can help to exploit the potential of inland waterway transport and to integrate this sector into the intermodal transport chain. let me briefly outline some of the key points of our agreement from the informal trilogue: in addition to taking into account the work already done by recognised international organisations such as the rhine shipping commission, we have now established that these organisations will continue to be involved in the development of harmonised river information services. they can advise the ris committee, which will ensure that the european union does not become a patchwork of disparate systems. commissioner barrot has already listed the possible applications of this ris concept: waterway information, traffic information, traffic management, support for accident prevention - particularly important because we also want to move dangerous goods on this transport route - information for transport management, statistics, customs, waterway taxes and port charges; the following services are available, but are not exhaustive. this information must be made available to all ris users without discrimination. in addition to the legitimate public interest, for example in the specific positioning of dangerous goods transported by water, the equally legitimate economic interest of the actors involved - shippers, shipping companies, ports, etc. - must not be overlooked. for this reason, we have once again made it explicitly clear that, of course, data protection law applies to such trade secrets without exception. in view of the structure of the sector, which is predominantly composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, we have reached the conclusion that fees charged for ris information may not exceed the cost price. the sector is thus protected from excessive costs arising from the use of the system. however, additional support for the sector, for example through additional aid or cheap loans - in my view this would be very sensible - was in no way to do with the council. the council is astonishingly afraid of holy water, given that this sector is so important for many member states. but since we need these inland navigation information services quickly, we have agreed to this compromise. in conclusion, i would like to thank you very much for the excellent cooperation with the council and the commission, but especially with my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs. i am grateful to you, because without the cooperation of all those involved, this compromise would not have been possible. i now call on the whole parliament to follow my voting list both on the original 34 amendments from the committee on transport and tourism and to accept the 32 amendments tabled in the plenary. they are the result of the informal trilogue, as we agreed. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i hope that it will be adopted by the council.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur in advance for the really excellent cooperation. inland waterway transport is gaining momentum and, with ris, it is losing a little more of its image as a romantic but old-fashioned mode of transport. with an interoperable cross-border information and communication system, we are moving closer to our vision of making inland waterway transport an equal link in the intermodal transport chain. this would be an intelligent boost to inland navigation beyond all the necessary infrastructure development measures. ris means added value in ecological, economic and transport policy terms. firstly, with the improvement of traffic and transport management, we can now also envisage just-in-time traffic on our rivers. ris provides up-to-date information that can be used for travel planning and for calculating reliable timetables. transport operations will become safer and more efficient. secondly, the ports are being upgraded as intermodal hubs. ris facilitates the planning of the utilisation of the terminal and port operators' resources. thirdly, we are finally getting a uniform identification number, a number plate for the inland vessels. this uniform identification mark is necessary for efficient inland waterway transport, vessel identification, traceability and safety. all this will increase the competitiveness of inland waterway transport and its attractiveness. what else is there to do? the real challenge is probably the interfaces. the ports, which are often the focal points of economic development, are often not trimodally oriented and equipped. there's a lot to do. it is also necessary to establish an even better link with short sea shipping, a mode of transport with very high growth rates. the administrative obstacles must be removed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we had the first reading. we are now awaiting the council's common position. i think this is the only way we can get closer to the goal of a truly competitive intermodal transport chain. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it is therefore necessary now to adopt the technical specifications and standards for implementing ris quickly and not to create a patchwork of different ris applications, if we do not already have one.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not control, an important part of the common fisheries policy, will continue to gain in importance in the future. the european parliament has always been concerned with improving the efficiency of controls in the fisheries sector. we therefore support the proposal to establish a european fisheries control authority. however, there are wide differences between the fishing regions of the european union. we therefore think that it would be useful to take account of regional differences in the organisational structure of the authority. the common fisheries policy has been further developed in recent years, but the european union's international commitments in the fisheries sector are also an essential part of this policy. all this requires effective but also uniform control procedures and control coordination. the establishment of a european supervisory authority should guarantee this. the aim must be to improve national control structures, while member states should continue to have a say in the use of their control instruments. we believe that the establishment of organisational structures at community level could lead to more consistent compliance with existing legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the agency's competence must remain visible. we are therefore opposed to the inclusion of regional councils in the organisational structure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
acting president of the council. mr president, i have already had the opportunity, in meetings with the committee on foreign affairs, to stress the importance which this presidency attaches to mediterranean policy. it is in fact a continuation of a process which was initiated when the european council decided to extend the union's common strategy for the region, to which a number of member states are also part of. we have thus demonstrated the substantial interest and resolute commitment of the union to this region. this extension will allow the union's relations with the mediterranean region to be examined, taking into account the evaluations of the strategic partnership for the mediterranean and the middle east by the european council of june 2005, the barcelona process in the context of its tenth anniversary in 2005 and the evolution of the european neighbourhood policy during the same period. this commitment was recently reiterated at the recent euro-mediterranean ministerial meeting in the hague on 29 and 30 november 2004, which confirmed the centrality of the barcelona process, reinforced by the european neighbourhood policy for the mediterranean. it is a process in which the european union and the mediterranean partners jointly participate in the achievement of political, economic and social reform objectives involving the societies concerned. these same objectives are also reflected in the european union's strategic partnership with the mediterranean region and the middle east. more than ever, the euro-mediterranean partnership constitutes an essential and privileged regional framework for dialogue and cooperation between the two shores of the mediterranean. the hague meeting was the second ministerial meeting after naples and before the one to be held in luxembourg on 30 and 31 may 2005. in this context, preparations for the tenth anniversary of the barcelona process, to be held in barcelona in november 2005, have already begun. the ministers also agreed to take an overall assessment of the process and to declare 2005 the year of the mediterranean. as regards the political and security dialogue of the european union with its mediterranean partners, the ministerial meeting in the hague confirmed progress in cooperation on the fight against terrorism, regional security and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and the european security and defence policy. partnership measures, such as the holding of a diplomatic seminar in malta, cooperation in civil protection and disaster management, and the euromesco network of foreign policy institutes, are making a substantial contribution to bringing the euro-mediterranean partners closer together. these efforts shall also aim at the implementation of political reforms and cooperation on human rights and democratisation, and shall be supported by civil society through commitments made either in the framework of association agreements or, where appropriate, in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. in this regard, the action plans concluded with a number of partners give a central role to human rights, democratisation, good governance and strengthening the rule of law. similarly, the establishment of the anna lindh euro-mediterranean foundation for intercultural dialogue is a decisive step in the implementation of the social, cultural and human partnership of the barcelona process. the inauguration of the new centre will be used by all the partners to increase the visibility of the barcelona process on both sides of the mediterranean. mr president, i believe that we are living in a historic moment today, particularly with regard to the conflict in the middle east. i believe that the barcelona process must not only accompany the relaunch of the peace process but also draw the dividends from this relaunch, and i believe that the future of europe is also the future of the mediterranean region, the future of its development, the future of cultural exchanges and the future of cooperation with those who are very close to us.
member of the commission. mr president, i am very pleased to be able to participate in this debate on eu-mediterranean relations. the european parliament has always been a strong supporter of the barcelona process. i wish to express my gratitude, especially to many individual members who are enthusiastic supporters of euromed relations, for your role as a driving force behind the union's active involvement in this region. i have had a great personal interest in this region ever since i became aware of how crucial the peace process is for the middle east. as my colleague has just said, there is a real moment of hope, although we know that the process is a fragile one. i visited the region the day before sharm el-sheikh. i had the chance to see the leaders who have taken really courageous steps. i told them that we have to go on and that both sides have to consolidate this new path to peace in the middle east, especially by seizing the opportunities of, on the one hand, the platform – the quartet – and, on the other hand, the roadmap. a successful disengagement in gaza is a priority for all of us. two days ago, the israeli government took a very courageous decision when prime minister sharon and his cabinet decided to do that. we know that this is a risky process, but we must do everything possible to make this happen. in addition to the mediterranean partnership, the tenth anniversary of which we will celebrate this year, the european neighbourhood policy, under which we have already adopted five action plans for the southern mediterranean countries, is also very important. the european neighbourhood policy means emphasising our common bonds through geography, history, trade, migration and culture by bringing these countries, as a ring of friends, closer to the european union. the neighbourhood policy does not replace the barcelona process, but is there to reinforce it by means of a tailor-made bilateral process. let me say a brief word now on lebanon. we are all shocked and saddened by the assassination ten days ago of former prime minister hariri. mr hariri was one of the main architects of the agreements that brought the long-awaited end to the civil war in lebanon. he was a man committed to peace and reconciliation, to the reconstruction of the war-torn country and also to the promotion of cooperation and stability in the region. the best tribute to his relentless efforts would be to ensure that free and fair parliamentary elections, under full lebanese sovereign control, take place in may. (applause) it is in the interests of lebanon and of the stability of the country that the circumstances of this criminal act, and the identities of those responsible for it, are clarified as soon as possible. i spoke out at a very early stage in favour an international investigation, which i believe the united nations will now carry out. the commission has also attached the utmost importance to a full and prompt implementation by all parties of un security council resolution 1559. this resolution calls for free and fair elections without foreign interference, the withdrawal of all foreign forces from lebanon, the disbanding and disarmament of all militias and the extension of government control to all lebanese territories. as we have already mentioned, 2005 will be the year of eu-mediterranean relations. since there are signs that the cycle of violence between the two sides can be broken, we have to do everything we can to consolidate the ceasefire and secure withdrawal from gaza, and then move forward with the roadmap for a two-state solution. in march, the euromediterranean parliamentary assembly will meet for the second time in cairo. i regret that i will be unable to attend. however, three weeks ago i met the members of the political bureau of that assembly in brussels, where i also attended a debate. at the end of may, euromediterranean ministers will meet in luxembourg for the seventh barcelona conference. in november, we will celebrate the tenth anniversary of the partnership, and the commission is already in the process of preparing a communication to the european parliament and the council to mark the occasion, containing specific proposals. i shall outline those proposals very briefly. the first is to increase the impact of our policies by contributing to the pursuit of reform, peace and stability in the region. the second is to bring the partnership closer to our citizens' concerns. the barcelona process has, to a large extent, been an intergovernmental process. it is high time that we asked ourselves what the partnership can do for people's concerns. how can we tackle more successfully such issues as education, employment, gender equality, democracy, the free movement of persons, and migration rights? these are the questions that affect the day-to-day life of our citizens, and our partnership should address them. i would like to give you some thoughts on the priorities for the years ahead. we should reflect on how we can best make use of the barcelona process to contribute to this new momentum in the middle east peace process, as well as to safeguard peace once we have it. we should also address political reform with our partners – members will be aware of the g8 initiative. i was at the rabat forum – members will be aware that cairo will now be postponed to a later date. i want to go there because i believe we can do a lot to achieve the same goals in complementary and parallel ways. we should address the practical aspects of counter-terrorism and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the european union has an impressive record in democracy building, including in the new member states. i think we should use this experience to build democracies and support these countries' reforms: what we europeans have to do is to try to encourage reforms, not impose them. education is one of the most fundamental issues for the future of the region. therefore, the european union and our partners should increase spending on education, and i will do what i can with my own services to foster more education projects, at elementary level, at the level of vocational training or at higher, university and university exchange levels. we should set a target date for eradicating illiteracy and focus on the critical issue of improving the quality of, and access to, education, especially for girls. together we could organise schemes for student exchanges: i think this is crucial, if we consider what europe and the united states have done since the war and how important that has been. we should promote the study of european integration. in trade and economic relations, we should reconfirm the 2010 target for free trade; agree a roadmap with a timetable for free trade in agricultural and processed agricultural products; decide on a timetable for the liberalisation of services; accelerate south-south free trade – the agadir process was very important; use the neighbourhood policy to help partners to eliminate obstacles to investment; and hold a meeting of transport ministers to extend transport corridors to the mediterranean with the financial support of the eib. finally, on the issue of migration and social integration, we should promote a joint cooperative approach to managing the movement of people. we should also implement european neighbourhood action plans and commitments on the social integration of migrants. the broader middle east and north african initiative is a very interesting one. the commission will certainly be very much involved in it, in a complementary but parallel way, and i hope that together we can achieve important goals, in terms not only of democracy, reform and the modernisation of these countries, but also of a real common partnership. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a beautiful symbol that viktor yushchenko, the president of ukraine, the largest country in the european union's eastern neighbourhood, is about to speak here, and we are talking today about the european union's southern neighbourhood, the mediterranean. in the north we have norway, which is friendly relations; the atlantic ocean is to the west, so it's basically our neighbors to the east and to the south. and we say to all our neighbours: we want a policy of dialogue, of partnership and, if possible, of friendship. our group, like the whole of parliament, has been very active in supporting the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, and the best way to honour our late colleague, mr renzo imbeni, is to develop this parliamentary assembly into a truly effective and forward-looking parliamentary body. the european parliament has been a very important institution in the past, and it is not just the european parliament that has been the instrument of this. let us therefore honor him by doing good work there! we want to find common solutions with our partners in the mediterranean and i find it very commendable, commissioner, that you are also personally so committed to the mediterranean. i would have welcomed it if the commission had been able to choose to appoint a member of the commission with responsibility for the mediterranean region only. but i have no doubt that you will be so committed that this is almost equivalent to such a decision. we must therefore talk with our partners about the future of the mediterranean and we say to the arab and islamic world: we want partnership, we do not want a clash of civilizations, and our relations with the arab and islamic world are one of the very great priorities of our policy. and that includes getting peace between israel and palestine. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore asking for a new resolution to be adopted. representatives of both countries - if i can call palestine a country - are represented in the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly; we must take our chances there to bring peace to the region. and we say to syria, with which we will have an association agreement, stop doing anything that promotes terrorism! give lebanon a real chance! if former prime minister hariri and his bodyguards were murdered, we must find out who is responsible. we ask syria to make its contribution to peace. and a final remark: we want partnership, we want economic contacts, we want political contacts, and we want human rights to be guaranteed throughout the mediterranean. this is also an important contribution to dialogue, partnership and peace in the mediterranean.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the arab world, and the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean, are undergoing a transformation - a transformation that is long overdue, because until a few years ago, this region was a region where democracy and human rights were largely at a standstill. we welcome the fact that turkey, for example, has announced that it will play a greater role in the dialogue with the arab world, for example on women's rights and democracy. this shows that the european union's policy of gradually bringing turkey closer to europe is right. the change to younger leaders, for example in morocco, jordan, bahrain and syria, has also created the possibility of a cautious opening towards democracy in the face of all the problems. we expressly welcome the release of political prisoners and the greater scope for political opposition. i would like to mention just a few examples: in morocco, for example, the question of women's rights, in jordan, the debate on the introduction of a right to divorce. let me close with the middle east conflict. the resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict will help to ensure that the excuse that democracy is not possible because of this conflict will hopefully no longer exist in the future.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me make a few comments, because i had the opportunity to be in sharm el sheikh with the commissioner for the middle east. for the mediterranean programme as a whole: we know that stable development - through improved economic and social conditions, through the building of democracy - is of great importance. but we know that in the long run this will only work if we succeed in solving the problems in the middle east itself, because these are the cause or the alibi for many other things. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say this because of my visit there, during which i spoke with palestinian and israeli leaders, each of whom assumed the other's good intentions. that's the crucial difference from how it was before, and a crucial basis for what could be a success here. we need to make sure that the quartet is finally performing together there, not just having the roadmap written, but performing together on the ground. we must ensure that we support the framework conditions which will enable the leaders of both camps to reach an agreement. this also means clearly influencing iran and syria so that hezbollah cannot destroy the peace process from the outside. we must help president abbas to make the palestinian people realise that peace is a win-win situation for everyone. that is why it is necessary to provide help there very quickly. commissioner, i know that the european parliament has always been very critical on this issue. but now we must act quickly: we do not want to see something in some programmes at some point, but we want to make it clear, if possible, before the parliamentary elections in the summer, that it is worthwhile to stand on the side of the moderates. in this way the cycle of violence can be broken, which is the condition for the israeli authorities to receive the necessary support from their own people, by being able to say: the peace process means no more terrorism. so we have to act quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. many people have described this morning that this year 2005 can be a year of neighbourhood policy. the chances are as great as they are rare. we are celebrating the tenth anniversary of the barcelona process, we are witnessing peaceful developments in the middle east between israel and palestine, which until a few months ago seemed unthinkable, and we have president yushchenko here today - this concerns an eastern part of the neighbourhood where democracy and human rights are also gaining ground. it is therefore important that we as the european parliament make a positive contribution to this process of neighbourhood policy. even in the countries themselves, you can see that something is changing in the atmosphere. a few days ago, moroccan representatives told me that they had started a dialogue with the council on human rights in an eu-morocco council and all the other neighbours said: are you crazy? how can you talk to the eu about human rights, which in the end only goes against you because they interfere? the effect, however, is positive. the dialogue is taking place and they are also having the opportunity to talk about the human rights of moroccans in the european union, so it is a productive dialogue which will certainly have an impact on all the other neighbours. so i think we're on the right track, and now we need to be more sophisticated. we have always said that if the palestinian authority is defeated by corruption, if terrorism is defeated, then we must help europeans with even more money if necessary, and we must be prepared to support this process from our side. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the statement that arafat's death would lead to chaos was wrong. peace has broken out, the fight against corruption has now prevailed, and we as europeans should support this process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what mr solana is saying is not acceptable in this form. we must now also be more demanding towards syria. all arab neighbours want to support the peace process, and syria must now be measured by whether it is fighting hamas and hezbollah in lebanon and syria, otherwise they cannot be a good partner in european politics. we must also be clear about this, and the commissioner is a little more clear than mr solana has been in his statements in recent weeks.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the republic of moldova is a country that is often forgotten in europe. in many of the listings, in many of the important speeches, this country is just left out. the european union is the only country in the world which has a common foreign and security policy. only if the transnistrian conflict is resolved and the country can really control its borders again will this country develop economically. we know that it is the poorest country in europe and that young people are fleeing in droves. that is why it is important for us to resolve this conflict, and democratic elections are a fundamental prerequisite. the democratic development and the successful economic development of this country will also bring greater security to the european union. i am therefore glad that finally - and i would like to stress 'finally' at this point - the commission, the council and mr solana have also understood that the solution to the transnistrian conflict is a key issue of security for europe and that we must do everything we can to ensure that this matter is taken forward. however, and i stress this again, democratic development in the country is again the responsibility of the parties, the government and the administration of this country. you must now ensure that the elections are free and fair, that there is no interference and that a government is formed based on trust, which is an important point of contact for us. this is the signal for the republic of moldova's path towards the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the president of ukraine has expressed it very well today. the value that links his country to europe is democracy. the democrats in the republic of moldova are also watching us. they not only expect us to commit ourselves to them as europeans, but they also expect us to send a clear signal beyond the neighbourhood strategy. i therefore believe that, in the wake of the events in neighbouring ukraine, we must give this country a clearer perspective. the thessaloniki strategy sets out a roadmap for the countries of the western balkans. but what about those countries that are now breaking free from the shackles of the past? ukraine has faked it. the republic of moldova will hopefully follow on 6 march, and belarus will also be able to participate in democratization in the future. what we need today is a thessaloniki strategy for these three countries. it is an anachronism that the republic of moldova is the only country in the stability pact for south-eastern europe that has no prospect of joining the european union. it would be nice if we could welcome a democratically elected, democratically acting president from the republic of moldova here in parliament very soon. at the moment, that is not the case, i was able to get a picture of it myself when i visited chisinau 10 days ago. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. our appeal to our european friends in the republic of moldova is: go to the polls, vote for democracy, make the republic of moldova more free, democratic and european so that we can welcome you here soon.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to draw attention to two points, and that is that we have another debate in april on the subject of textiles, on which the committee on industry and the committee on international trade will be holding a joint hearing. i would be glad, on behalf of my colleagues and the two committees, if we could then have the opportunity to continue the discussion and perhaps work with more reliable data. secondly, we are in 2005, which means that at the end of the year we will have the wto negotiations in hong kong. i think this is a good way of taking up the point of the fence post that many colleagues have raised with regard to china and of building up a gentle and diplomatic pressure. i think it is necessary to do this. it would be important, then, that you, mr president-in-office, actually take account of the various factors in the analysis you have mentioned. we need to know more about what is happening in tunisia, turkey and our traditional eu member states, for better or for worse. we just need to have a carefully crafted and clean picture. if you could provide this in cooperation with the commissioners involved during your presidency of the council, that would be more than helpful.
the next item is question time (b6-0009/2005). we are dealing with a number of requests to the council.
question no 1 by mr bernd posselt (h-0574/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: negotiations with croatia what is the state of preparations for the forthcoming accession negotiations with croatia?
acting president of the council. madam president, the european council of 16 and 17 december 2004 noted with satisfaction the progress made by croatia in preparing for the opening of accession negotiations. it called on the commission to submit to the council a proposal for a framework for negotiations with croatia, taking full account of the experience gained in the context of the fifth enlargement. it asked the council to reach agreement on this framework with a view to opening accession negotiations on 17 march 2005, provided that croatia cooperates fully with the icty. the commission forwarded the draft negotiating framework on 31 january. technical discussions within the enlargement group were started on 1 february with a view to adopting a common position with a view to opening accession negotiations on 17 march. in this context, it is also worth recalling the conclusions of the european council of 17 december 2004 which very explicitly called on croatia to demonstrate its full cooperation with the icty. in addition, the council, after consulting the european parliament, decided in december 2004 to allow croatia access to the pre-accession financial instruments phare, ispa, sapard from 2005 to help croatia better prepare for accession. an amount has been allocated for this purpose in the framework of this financial perspective. at the same time, continuity of activities supporting cooperation with the western balkans, covered by the cards instrument, is ensured.
i have to say, madam president, i'd like to tell you that we're having a meeting of our joint parliamentary committee. we're in zagreb next week. if the council were to take the view that the arrest of general gotovina should be the precondition for opening negotiations, it would be confronting the european parliament, which has never made that precondition. i have the conclusions from brussels here, and paragraph 14 clearly states that cooperation is required, that he should also be extradited as soon as he is caught. we support all of this, but it cannot be a precondition for accession negotiations, and we expect them to start on 17 march.
acting president of the council. i have nothing to add to that either; that is for the council to decide. that said, i can only repeat that cooperation with the court is an essential element.
question no 2 by mr kyriacos triantaphyllides (h-0577/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: restrictions on mordechai vannunuisraeli nuclear physicist mordechai vannunu was released from prison in april 2004 by the israeli authorities after 18 years in prison, 11 and a half of which were spent in solitary confinement. unfortunately, since the day of his release, he has been held hostage by his government, which has denied him the right to travel and the right to express his opinion. recently, in november, he was arrested again by the police on unsubstantiated charges. does the council intend to make representations to the israeli government in order to restore the democratic rights of a man who has already been persecuted to the point of sufficiency?
acting president of the council. i'll take that.
question no 3 by mr papadimoulis (h-0005/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: establishment of a european early warning and response system for natural disasters the eu's foreign affairs commissioner has announced that she plans to propose to the college of commissioners the creation of a permanent response force to respond to natural disasters and humanitarian crises around the world. the task force is to be composed of 5,000 national experts selected by each member state and placed under the responsibility of a central coordinating authority after appropriate training. the commissioner said that this force should be ready for action from 2007. in the conclusions of the special meeting of the general affairs and external relations councils on 7 january 2005, the council invited the commission and the relevant bodies to examine the possibilities for developing rapid eu aid and to submit proposals for the strategic reinforcement of preventive, early warning and disaster preparedness measures that have become necessary in the light of recent events. does the council consider the commissioner's proposal to be a good basis for implementing the objectives set out in the conclusions? why is there no reference to this specific proposal by commissioner benita ferrero-waldner in the conclusions?
acting president of the council. unfortunately, the constitution has not yet entered into force, but i think it is nevertheless important to work on this project, which, i repeat, is a very important project. it is also provided for in the current treaties, which deal with civil protection. but we know that to have a really effective system, based on all the elements, including elements which may not fall within the scope of community competence, we need a more comprehensive approach. this is why it is important to involve the commission on the one hand and the secretary of the council/high representative on the other. once these proposals were in hand, the council undertook to take decisions and to put in place such a system, which is of course indispensable.
question no 4 by mr papastamkos (h-0007/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: lisbon strategy one of the major priorities of the luxembourg presidency of the eu is the lisbon strategy. the results achieved so far in applying the strategy are below expectations, as the eu's productivity and competitiveness indices are below those of the usa and certain asian countries. does the council intend to move from a general programme text to a coherent and comprehensive development strategy? how does it intend to deal with the excessive number of objectives and priorities, the lack of intrinsic link between objectives and means, and the lack of mechanisms for effective implementation, and how does it intend to link economic development, social cohesion and environmental sustainability?
acting president of the council. i think it is very clear - and i repeat, it was said by the president of the european council - that the lisbon strategy is a whole. there are three pillars in the lisbon strategy: there is indeed the pillar which can be called the competitiveness or economic pillar, there is the social pillar and there is the environmental pillar. the great challenge is to show that the three pillars are not mutually exclusive but that they form a real unity. the presidency will ensure that the coherence of these three pillars is fully taken into account when the new strategy is defined.
question no 5 by mr karatzaferis (h-0009/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: 'maximum funds' for the production of agricultural products in deficit in the eu greek farmers are protesting against the imposition of 'maximum funds' in terms of area and production for cotton, which is in deficit in the union. the question is what is the logic behind the fact that european taxpayers' money is not going to the already deprived group of europeans, the farmers, but to markets outside the borders of the 25 member states. the invention of the 'plafond' is destroying the farmers of the region, just as the policy of the multinational subsidiaries is taking the small and mediumsized enterprises out of the hands of europeans. why are these 'ceiling funds' not being abolished so that the european union can become self-sufficient in agricultural products, which are in short supply, and at the same time european farmers can earn more income? is the council considering the possibility of abolishing the above-mentioned 'ceiling funds' for cotton and the other products in deficit in the eu?
acting president of the council. i do not have the figures you are asking for, but i am sure the commission could help us and provide them. i can add, however, that a transfer of funds of eur 22 million to the second pillar of the cap, rural development, for the cotton sector, will accompany the reform which, through the reduction of production, will probably lead to restructuring processes at regional level. conscious of the need to offer a stable medium-term policy to community producers, the council, which has not received any proposal to this effect from the commission at this stage, considers that there is no reason to modify the major reform, which constitutes an inseparable whole. i am therefore committed to trying to provide you with the figures you are asking for, but i simply repeat that after the debate in parliament we must think a little bit about consistency.
acting president of the council. mr president, you know that europe has tried to introduce the environmental dimension into the wto debate, in addition to the question of social rights, without much success - i must admit - because of the opposition of a number of developing countries. however, at the ilo and in relation to the wto, this debate must be and is being continued. so i cannot say that he is an integral part of this issue. but we will continue to pay special attention to it.
question no 6 by mrs marilisa xenogiannakopoulou (h-0010/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: protection of children in flood-affected areas unicef and the ngos receive numerous letters daily denouncing the ill-treatment, exploitation or disappearance of children in flood-affected areas of south-east asia. the letter denounces the uncontrolled actions of human smuggling gangs, illegal adoptions and the trade in human organs. what action does the council intend to take, in the context of humanitarian aid and in cooperation with the united nations, non-governmental organizations and the authorities of these countries, to ensure effective relief and the care and protection of children in disaster areas and in homeless camps?
acting president of the council. i think it would be useful to see in what framework we can strengthen the mechanisms, perhaps even at european level, to combat these phenomena in europe, but also to improve cooperation with the countries concerned in order to effectively prosecute such acts.
question no 7 by mr evans (h-0012/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu tax havensis the council planning to address the anomaly of european tax havens?
acting president of the council. this is another question: the use of a number of financial channels to finance, for example, terrorist activities. you know that within the oecd, there's an organization called the fatf that also tracks these things. i believe there are lists of countries and territories which show whether they are complying with the rules, particularly in relation to money laundering. it is therefore a very important aspect and the european union is very active in ensuring that the fight against money laundering is carried out effectively, including in neighbouring countries or territories.
question no 8 by mr david martin (h-0014/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: tsunami statements for africa will the council ensure that the legitimate measures it takes to help the victims of the tsunami are not at the expense of aid to africa?
acting president of the council. i believe that monitoring and evaluation are indeed mentioned in the various conclusions adopted by the council. the commission is accountable, but the funds provided for in the various frameworks for africa, including the cotonou agreement, are reserved funds. it is therefore not possible to use these resources to finance other activities, such as tsunami relief. i believe there are sufficient safeguards to ensure that there is no transfer of funds. i do not think that the commission has any right to make a statement on the situation in the countries affected by the disaster. the need to ensure that this is not done at the expense of africa, which, as you have said, is experiencing a tsunami almost every day.
question no 9 by mr jonas sjöstedt (h-0017/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: storage of traffic data a framework decision on the retention of traffic data is currently being worked on at eu level. this question has been raised before, and each time the so-called article 29 group (eu data protection leaders tasked with ensuring that data protection rules are applied to personal data) has responded with very critical statements. the draft proposal proposes to introduce a common eu regime allowing data from publicly available communication networks to be retained for 12 to 36 months for the purposes of 'prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism'. the proposal goes far beyond telephone services and includes extensive traffic data, i.e. information on who visits which websites and who has sent an e-mail to whom. moreover, it is not only a matter of retention for law enforcement purposes but also a preventive measure, which means that all citizens are considered as potential suspects. the article 29 group has, of course, strongly criticised this proposal. in its opinion, the group considers that this draft law not only violates the provision that traffic data may be used only for the purpose for which it has been stored, but also violates article 8 of the convention on human rights, which states that 'everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence'. does the council intend to take appropriate action on the basis of the criticism of the article 29 group?
acting president of the council. i can only repeat that finally, this question is being discussed from the angle precisely indicated by the honourable member and that no final decision has been taken. i believe that the concern for the protection of privacy, the concern to respect article 8 of the convention on human rights is very concrete and will certainly be taken into account when this provision is reviewed.
questions 10 to 40 shall be answered in writing. for questions not dealt with, see the annex entitled 'question time' (the sitting was suspended from 19.10 to 21.05).
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs mercedes bresso, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament, for her really good work and for the persistence with which she has undertaken this task. it has also helped, together with all the other parties involved, to put an end to the legislation in this area today - or rather tomorrow, when we vote. i believe that with these 19 amendments, all of which my group will support, we have reached a good compromise, one which we can accept with a good heart and with good faith. i must say that it is a compromise and we social democrats would have been happy to go further in some areas, but we also had to pay tribute to the majority in this house. we have paid them this tribute, particularly in relation to the weaker consumers, who would have been even more protected if we had had our way. here we have thought particularly of the children. we would have preferred that there had been no possibility at all of allowing advertising to or for children directly, in order to put a stop to unfair commercial practices in this area from the outset. but unfortunately this was not possible; we have to live with it. perhaps we will be able to achieve this later on with further amendments. however, we social democrats are very pleased that the provisions concerning the principle of the country of origin have also been set aside by a large majority in both the council and the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are properly used. we have done that in this area and we will certainly make a good decision tomorrow, one which will be a guide for the future. so, mrs bresso, thank you again for your good work. i think that we have done a great deal of good here for consumer protection, for citizens, and that we can go out with our heads held high.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to join in congratulating mrs bresso. it must not be easy for a beginner to deal with such a proposal. you have carried on the legacy of mrs ghilardotti, but you have created your own accents, and i must say, admiration for your assertion in the predator's den of the trilog. we didn't always agree on everything. however, i should like to say first of all that i am very pleased that we have managed to ensure flexibility in the application of this directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i am glad that the commission has taken this into account. it is therefore also important that article 4 provides that member states may not restrict the movement of goods and services on the basis of unfair commercial practices. i understand that this also means that a decision taken in one member state on the admissibility of a commercial practice cannot be challenged in another member state. i think that this remark is also very important as a reference to the courts for future interpretation. i am pleased, commissioner kyprianou, that in your work programme you have placed the implementation of european rules at the top of your agenda. it is particularly with this directive that it will be difficult to put the good ideas into practice. the internal market is to be a market of fair competition for decent traders, and this is what we are ensuring by this directive.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to begin by thanking mr maštálka for the draft report. safety and health at work are key objectives of european policy. i therefore welcome the commission's communication and parliament's owninitiative report in principle. the commission's task is to monitor the practical implementation of the safety standards and to monitor shortcomings in national application. the commission has opened infringement procedures against almost all member states for non-compliance with eu safety and health rules. this is why the main objective must be to ensure that we comply with and control the existing rules before the eu adopts new regulations and directives and sets requirements. the principle of subsidiarity must be respected. the commissioner also mentioned that the main responsibility for implementing osh rules lies with the member states and supervisory authorities, as well as with the local social partners. these must be strengthened, as point 12 of the motion for a resolution in the report calls for. in order to create a level playing field, it is also particularly important to support the new member states, because there is enormous potential for development here. it is not possible to leave small and mediumsized enterprises in the lurch. smes are our strongest employer and the driving force behind the lisbon process. as my amendment no 3 calls for, health and safety regulations must be rationalised to improve their efficiency without reducing the level of protection in favour of workers. we also need prevention strategies that reach people. i therefore propose in amendment no 2 that the first priority be to inform workers about preventive measures. i am particularly concerned about the deletion of articles 27 and 29, which express general concern about the proposed directives on working time and services. but that is going too far and has nothing to do with the title of the report. it is not our job to comment on other legislative processes and to try to pass legislation through the back door with a non-legislative report. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, i have tabled a number of amendments which improve the report and change it so that it achieves its main objective: the uniform implementation and monitoring of the existing rules in all the member states without creating new bureaucracy. i therefore ask for your support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i understand the concern of my italian colleagues, but business decisions at a given location in the european single market can only be changed within the framework of the agreement, not by governments which are not responsible. the appeal to the german government to intervene there is not likely to be effective. i was interested to hear commissioner špidla say that there was no evidence of any breach of the agreements. according to the documents thyssen-krupp sent me, the group has invested eur 700 million in recent years and received a total of eur 17 million in grants. according to these figures, we have a steel market of 1 billion tonnes worldwide, 1.2 million tonnes are produced internally, which is just over 1 per mille of world steel production, and 70,000 tonnes of electrical tape, and this electrical tape is about: it has made losses which are justified not only in italy but also in the legislation of the european union: high energy costs, environmental legislation. i think of our emission trading requirements, which have been demanded by the steel industry in particular in order to achieve the technical minimum throughout europe, which it already has - steel cannot be produced without coal, and there are technical limits in this area; i am thinking of the fact that investment is being considered across the industry to relocate operations to places where the kyoto protocol does not apply. i think that the ore-smelting companies, especially in the big resource countries, have announced that they will soon raise their raw material prices by 90%, and that there is a huge demand in china. these are the conditions which i believe require the commission to tackle not only the terni case, which is certainly of enormous importance to the workers concerned, but the steel sector as a whole. that is why, in paragraph 8 of the resolution, we call for a communication, an inventory and the setting up of a high-level group, in addition to terni, because the aim is to secure the raw material steel in the european union and thus the production bases with the sites, but also independently of the sites, in the long term. this is our common objective and that is why we support the initiative of our italian colleagues.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if we are to take the lisbon strategy seriously, we must invest in research, development and innovation. we need money for that, we need to increase the budget. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but i am saying that it has not been consulted on the matter. secondly, if we are going to ask for more money, we must also make sure that the money is used in the best possible way. we must also draw lessons from the sixth research framework programme. we must simplify procedures, reduce bureaucracy and reduce waste. i think this is a very important task which we must all work together to achieve. our colleagues in the committee on budgets are currently dealing with the budgetary procedure: there too, we must start and finish. commissioner, you are also called to your house! we need a professional project management and i am very curious and curious to see what you will propose to us on 6 april. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need, if we are serious about the objectives of the lisbon strategy, simply more investment in research and development, including from the private sector, and that is where i am interested in the commissioner's ideas: how do you think we can ensure a greater participation, particularly from industry, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, in the seventh framework programme for research? i listened very carefully to mr ransdorf, who said that we need a better depreciation policy, more flexible legislation, etc. these are good ideas, but i would also be interested to hear what the commissioner has to say on this matter.
member of the commission. mr president, i much appreciate the strong support of this house. it is very encouraging for my future work. many questions were asked, some of which i cannot answer very precisely, but i will group them together and try to be as informative as possible. the calculation behind doubling is made in real terms on a yearly basis and with the same assumptions in mind as with the other aspects of the debate on the new financial perspective. at the end of the day it is crucial that we double the funds as a percentage of gdp. that is a credible way of looking at it. our proposal was based on that thinking and i believe that this proposal is ambitious enough to achieve our goals. i am more afraid of going backwards than of asking whether it goes far enough, although even that question is credible, too, and could be approached in an official way. public funding is not the only funding. as you know, public funding is estimated as being approximately one-third, with two-thirds private funding. so it is crucial that we increase public funding, because of the source and because of the leverage effect on private investment. however, as some of you stressed, it is even more crucial to create conditions under which companies will stay and invest in europe. the latest figures are not promising: in 2002, investment by the 500 biggest companies in the european union decreased by 2%; investment by the 500 biggest non-eu companies increased by 3.9%. in europe, around 24% of investment involves the car and spare part industries. in the rest of the world, information technology is the biggest sector with regard to investment. those are the facts we have to deal with. that is why it is crucial to create a better environment for research and development. ways of doing this might include state aid; tax incentives; intellectual property rights; the structural and cohesion funds; and risk and venture capital, which is certainly one of the problems. two days ago, i met the president of the european investment bank and we have already started to prepare actions in an effort to address that problem. environment is crucial. if we want to achieve our goal, we need to create an environment in which companies will work, compete and carry out their research and development activities in europe. the framework programme now being discussed in the commission has to take account of the lisbon agenda. i would like it to be simple, flexible, understandable, easily applicable and based on continuity. we would like to establish four major areas of support. first, cooperation. today we call this the 'collaborative approach', although in some countries the term 'collaboration' is not particularly acceptable. that area should be more industry-driven than it was in the past. that is why technology platforms should play an important role in deciding where money will go and how decisions are taken. it will be more thematically orientated and less instrumental than in the past. i believe that is the proper way to do it. the second area is ideas. this means the european research council. this area is researcher-driven, so the division between basic and applicable research is practically outdated. we would try to make it clear what is industry-driven, what is politically driven and what is research-driven. that will be more transparent. we will give everyone the opportunity to make known their views on this. the third area should be people. the major problem there is that they have been under-financed. the fourth area is capacities, which involves infrastructure, smes, regions and research potential. here, we would like to address the question of new member states, but not in a way that would undermine the excellence of the programme. researchers in those countries should be supported so that they develop and become more visible. we should establish actions which allow us to access the structural and cohesion funds. the worst thing for the new member states and their researchers would be to create conditions under which they would not be able to compete. it is best for them to develop rapidly so that they are competitive from the very beginning. they are doing that already. i am very much aware that conditions in some countries mean that they cannot compete. we have to help them, but the question is how we do this. our programme seeks to achieve excellence and competitiveness in the eu, which is crucial. we have structural and cohesion funds for solidarity. if we are using these funds for road, rail and environmental infrastructure, we could and should use them for the development of research infrastructure as well. it is crucial that we create conditions in which researchers from the new member states will remain in these countries and compete and cooperate with others in the european union. simplification and streamlining should be the name of the game, otherwise we will have major problems. i am aware of all the challenges ahead of me and i count on your support. the commission is not the only body involved: i have created a taskforce in my directorate. we now also have an inter-service task force. we are now organising sounding boards among smes and smaller groups, to give them a chance to voice their opinions on the proposals. framework programmes, research and development structures, cohesion programmes, and competitiveness and innovation programmes are crucial. these should seek to achieve the same goals. that is one of the points i would especially like to underline. for smaller users, we are trying to establish better definitions for the instruments, which are often far from user-friendly, especially the integrated projects. on the other hand, simplification and streamlining are major problems for smaller users. for them, costs are proportionally much higher and burdens are greater than they are for the bigger users. i believe these two things will be crucial. we should bring more smes into the process itself. in conclusion, i believe that the talks on the next financial perspective will be a kind of moment of truth. i hope that we will be strong enough to reach conclusions which tally with the commission's proposal. i am afraid that if certain changes are made the structure of the budget will be worse than it is now. thank you for your support. (applause)
austrian courtesy, and correctness. thank you.
the next item is the report under rule 134 of the rules of procedure on specific measures to assist the transfer of vessels to the countries affected by the 2004 tsunami (com (2005) 0036 - c6-0036/2005 - 2005/0005 (cns))
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not an entire industry has been damaged, as a huge number of ships have been destroyed. there are many ways to help. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. these boats will therefore be decommissioned in the european union, but will be returned to service on request and to meet the needs of those concerned in south-east asia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we social democrats - for the most part, at any rate - support this temporary possibility. of course, we also see the many difficulties involved. we believe that self-help is always the better way in the long run, and that is what our amendments express. we are not going to vote for the amendments, but we are going to vote for the amendments.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's hard to say, as always. i shall try to answer the questions, but i would like to begin the whole answer with a quote from mr kindermann: political sign of solidarity. and that's exactly what we're doing with this project. it's just a small part of a much larger relief effort. it's a way to help quickly and on time. with your permission, i will now answer some specific questions in a more specific way. the question of the calculation of the approach. i have heard the figure: 47 000 euros, 50 000 per boat. these figures, as already explained to the fisheries committee, are not correct. the owners of the boats receive a premium for the hire anyway. the only thing that changes is that the boats are not dismantled but transferred, at a cost of transport of no more than 4 000 euros per boat. it is therefore the cost to be taken into account and not the fanciful figures which are quoted. it's not about the small boats. of course, small boats like dinghies can be rebuilt on site. but in this case, it is a medium-sized building, maximum 12 metres, and the capacity necessary for the construction of such a vessel does not exist in the area. another question concerns the age of the boat. the average age of european ships in service is 25 years; the average life of ships destined for export to the countries affected by the tsunami will be between 5 and 20 years. so, it's not about the very old boats. as regards the question of the experts, i would like to say that they have already been and will be sent on the spot. in addition, it is at our request that the fao should carry out an assessment of needs and this will be on the agenda of the ministerial meeting on 12 march, where mr borg will represent the commission. we are all in favour of good cooperation with the fao; we will see what our experts can contribute. as regards the alert system to be put in place, the commission is in the process, with the experts of international bodies, of putting in place the alert system by transferring our technologies to the countries concerned. mr president, i should like to make it very clear that the analysis of the state of the ships by the experts and their adaptation to the needs will be made. the needs assessment will be made by the fao. we want to be ready when the demands arrive. we already have a request from thailand to obtain the boat. finally, mr president, i think this is a moral question. can we continue here as boatmen, if, on the other side of the world, they can serve as fishermen? (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that we must take a very different view of the developments in togo, even if we have to come to a very clear conclusion. togo is like many countries in west africa. you can see it by looking at the map, when you see these thinly cut towels that the west african countries are usually, an artificial state created for colonial interests. first, the german, then the french colonial rulers, but with artificial boundaries, and basically in this form originally difficult to live. when you consider that the borders were drawn on a drawing board, with some peoples and families being torn apart and other ethnicities that had nothing to do with each other being artificially joined together - when you consider all this, then you have to say that for a while togo still seemed to take a surprisingly reasonable course. it seemed to be an island of stability in west africa, even though we know that there was hardly a democracy in our sense anywhere. but eyadéma's rule has become increasingly stronger - and this is what mr meijer has pointed out - and has developed into a very harsh dictatorship, which is now being tried to make hereditary. and while i respect that families and tribes play a different role in africa than they do in our societies, i have to say that we cannot accept this hereditary dictatorship. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is also a political union, and it is a political union. the european union is not a party to the agreement, but it is a party to the agreement, and it is not a party to the agreement. i would like to thank both these communities very warmly for their support and i see this as an encouraging sign that africa is beginning - at least hesitantly - to take its destiny into its own hands on these issues, and deserves our full support in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in january 1990 nepal celebrated the year of tourism. in a magnificent demonstration of tens of thousands of participants and several hundred thousand spectators, the entire cultural wealth of the country was displayed with its sherpas and monks, temple dancers and saddus, elephant guides, mandala artists and mountaineers. under the flag of friends of nepal, i was there. we passed by king birendra, who as a personality and as a champion of constitutional monarchy enjoyed the highest respect among 95-98% of all nepalese. seven years later, the distance between king gyanendra and us is even greater. he fired another prime minister. dozens of politicians, human rights activists and journalists have been arrested or put under house arrest. for three years now, he wants to rule alone. why has not a single prime minister in recent years been able to hold free elections? because there was no agreement between the various parties, let alone with the maoists. but mostly because of the lack of security in this country. people are living in fear, not just in western nepal. meanwhile, two thirds of the country is controlled by maoist rebels, and the inadequately trained police are the target of deadly attacks. the civil war has claimed 10,000 lives so far. it is not ending and the main source of income, tourism, has almost ceased. i fear that after the february 1 handshake, more maoist sympathizers will be forced into the arms. the state of emergency is also being used to further restrict human rights, which is why we in the epp group are extremely concerned about it. for example, important shelters for tibetans who had to leave their homes were closed. one is the tibet refugee welfare office, which has been supporting the work of the unhcr refugee centre in kathmandu for 15 years - i know it - and which currently hosts about 1,000 asylum seekers. second, the office of the dalai lama's representative was closed, and it's been closed since 1959. the situation is getting desperate! commissioner, i very much welcome the initiatives of the european union, but also of india and the united states. the king was thus asked to end the state of emergency within 100 days. a representative of the european commission was present at the meeting of our saarc delegation this morning and informed us that some funding programmes were being frozen in order to consolidate democracy through economic pressure. the commission has also been active in the development of the community's external relations, and has been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. i would be very pleased if the human rights situation in nepal were to be discussed at the un commission on human rights in geneva. the 15-year-old democracy in nepal is a fragile plant; it must be protected and not destroyed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just ask you to ensure that, regardless of the outcome of the vote, question time with the commission can take place tomorrow without any restrictions, because this is a basic parliamentary right, which is also guaranteed by the treaty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a comment on the procedure. first of all, i would ask you to vote on the services directive, and there will be a majority or not. we shall then come to the software issue in a separate vote. if you put both of them together, you will get an outcome that this house may not want. that is why i ask that we vote on each item.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. millions of people around the world are celebrating international women's day these days, including in turkey, and we heard it: the demonstration was beaten down. thank you for responding so quickly and sending the right signal. we need democratic rights for women in turkey, otherwise we cannot achieve accession. another point: tomorrow we will be discussing in parliament the results of the un conference beijing + 10. the debate with oral questions will take place in the morning and the vote at noon. at the same time, commission president barroso has invited an exchange of information with 10 members of the women's committee. i think that is an affront, and none of our members should be attending a meeting of this kind, which is taking place in this house and is ignoring the vote. i would ask you to make it clear to mr barroso that we have to do our first duty here in the plenary and we have to debate women's rights here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to refer to what my colleague malcolm harbour said earlier and make it quite clear that i think parliament has made a very wise decision earlier to discuss tomorrow evening both the software patent directive and the services directive. as rapporteur for the services directive, i would also like to make it clear that i find it unacceptable that the services directive is used to exclude other, also very important, legislative procedures in the european parliament. i cannot and will not accept that. that is why we abstained as a group earlier.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report highlights the important role played by the european investment bank in eu development policy. i believe that the eib should play an even more active role and show greater commitment to achieving the millennium development goals in particular. i would like to refer in particular to the subject of poverty reduction. what i find lacking in the report is investment within the eu. the current level of capacity to provide reconstruction assistance to the regions devastated by the tsunami flood disaster should also be addressed. the european commission has announced that it will provide up to eur 1 billion in eib-mediated aid. i would like to stress at this point that the funds will not be available under the current conditions. the eib itself has already pointed out on several occasions that it does not have the mandate to use these funds in this region and that the loans would be too expensive if they were not co-financed by the commission. i therefore ask the house not to close its eyes to this co-financing.
member of the commission. mr president, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on conditions for access to the gas transmission networks is a good example of fruitful cooperation between the institutions and therefore a success story. thanks to the constructive approach of the rapporteur, mr seppänen, and his colleagues in all the political groups in parliament, we arrived at a text that will bring about the desired results. for this, i would like to thank you all. your commitment to this legislative proposal has ensured not only the quality of the text but also rapid and efficient treatment. the regulation, once effective, will provide a level playing field for conditions for access to the gas transmission networks across the whole european market, hence completing a crucial element of the internal gas market directive. non-discriminatory and transparent conditions for access to the grid are essential if competition is to develop. the european parliament has played a crucial role in the whole process. most of the amendments adopted at first reading have been accepted by both the council and the commission. it is, therefore, safe to say that the european parliament has already made its mark on the text. now we are close to finalising the legislative process, again with a recommendation amending the text of the common position. the commission can fully accept the outcome of the compromise between the european parliament and the council. its results finally pave the way for adoption of the regulation by the council and thus add an important piece of legislation to the legal framework establishing the internal market for gas. i am aware that some of you would have liked to go further by including access to storage in the scope of the regulation. like parliament, the commission attaches great importance to this issue. however, i am absolutely sure that this regulation would not be the right place to address such an important topic. discussions on a voluntary agreement on guidelines for non-discriminatory conditions for access to storage facilities are nearing a successful conclusion. such an agreement would be the most efficient way to bring about rapid improvements to the market from 1 april 2005, on condition that the industry sticks to the provisions of the agreement. it goes without saying that both the regulators and the commission will closely monitor the implementation of these guidelines. further action will be taken in due course if appropriate. i would encourage you to adopt the recommendation submitted by the committee on industry, research and energy, as this represents the best way to promote our common objectives: a well-functioning internal market for gas, to the benefit of the consumers and the competitiveness of europe. i should add that the commission will continue to consult all the stakeholders and the experience we have had with the madrid forum has been extremely successful.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, i would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs. we worked together brilliantly. in a short time, a project that took a long time to complete has been brought to a successful conclusion. it is about giving people in europe the chance to choose freely their access to gas suppliers, to have different offers, to open up the market. this requires clear framework conditions, which we have tried to define: disclosure of tariff calculations, transparency of cost calculations, extensive information obligations on network operators. these are all key elements. on the other hand - and we have tried to do that - there must of course be a balance. those who run the networks must protect their interests. restrictions that become so strong that no one is interested in running networks make no sense. i think we have found a sensible balance here, opening up the market, offering new opportunities to consumers, but also maintaining the economic interest in the operation of gas networks. who else is going to do it? the basis for these consultations were voluntary agreements, the guidelines for good practice agreed in madrid in 2003. i think it was a smart way to build on that consensus. i therefore agree with mr seppänen that it is helpful to keep this in mind in the course of the votes. i agree with the ppe-de that it is good that we have not included gas storage in this regulation. there has been no consensus on this, and i am not convinced that there needs to be a legal framework. if there are voluntary appointments, these are preferable. it is not always necessary to adopt everything legally binding. we should wait and see how this process goes. the gas market should also be given a certain amount of time to develop. this requires national governments to implement our guidelines. the effectiveness can only be assessed after some time has passed. i therefore ask that, if we have adopted this today, we allow some time to pass and then see how the situation has developed.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to the rapporteur. i don't usually do this because i think it's the job of a reporter to do a decent job, and you don't have to thank me for the obvious. but this has been a very complicated matter. our colleague seppänen has done an excellent job. that was not the beginning of the debate. we and several other members of this house have known each other since the first reading of the previous parliament, when all this was already very complicated. the council has now taken up many of the points which we discussed in the first reading, first in debate, and then decided on, in parliament, and we can be satisfied. but as it is, there is a new parliament, new people, new ideas, new proposals. of course, the new members came with their new ideas, and it was difficult to accommodate them, because a compromise had already been reached with the council. mr seppänen, who i know was already in favour of the commission proposal and who wanted us to adopt the council's position without any major changes, has therefore represented parliament's interests explicitly and well and has also asserted them in the negotiations with the council. but let me get to the point: we do not want competition for the sake of competition, either in the energy markets or in other markets. but we also know that competition is the appropriate instrument to exploit the efficiency gains of a common market. for this common market and to be able to exploit these efficiency gains, we need the opening up of the national submarkets towards an integrated internal energy market. this requires transparent and non-discriminatory access to the networks. in addition to the 2003 internal market directive on the full opening of gas markets, we believe that this regulation should include arrangements for the adoption of more precise, detailed and binding guidelines. this regulation should, inter alia, address clearer transparency requirements, including that network operators offer services to third parties for their access to the network, and in particular clearer structures for charges, i.e. a fee structure. this is the very structure of the charges which is essential for the transparency and non-discriminatory access of competitors to the network, because such networks are natural monopolies and we can only control them by regulating access and making them transparent and non-discriminatory. it was therefore important - and i want to emphasize this case - that we clarify our common position on the structure of remuneration in addition to the many points we have already made. it is not enough to provide relatively abstract incentives in terms of efficiency in tariff setting. the criterion for the tariffs is the cost of an efficient and structurally comparable network operator, and this criterion, which we as parliament have developed and enforced for cross-border electricity trade, is also suitable for the gas networks. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in principle, liberalization is good. but with gas, it will be almost ineffective. why would you do that? for two main reasons: first, let's look at the producer level. we have only russia, norway and algeria. this oligopoly determines what happens in the gas market in europe, and this market power allows, for example, that the price of gas in europe is 90% tied to oil. there's no economic reason for that. this is pure market power or, to put it bluntly, it is pure rip-off. there is no sign of competition among the producers. what is the point of downstream regulation if upstream there is only an oligopoly of the big three? it's like the weekly market. if there are more strawberries, the price will drop! for example, the russians would have to bring more gas to the world market and compete with the norwegians to bring down prices. they won't do it willingly. we need a council and a commission! the second obstacle is the large national and international distributors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. who, for example, supplies gas to a medium-sized utility in germany? russia would laugh if a german utility wanted to buy directly from gasporm and have a direct pipeline. in this context, it is worrying that the largest electricity suppliers in europe are now also the largest gas suppliers. if we want competition and liberalisation, then the industry must not be vertical and have everything in one hand, from extraction to the last distributor. we must effectively prevent the big four in germany, for example, from setting up a wider vertical and buying up all the smaller and medium-sized distributors. the same is true in italy with enel and eni, and in france with gdf and edf. in an industry determined by grid lines, there must be distributors independent of the big producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if we do not address these challenges, then our efforts today, however good, will be largely ineffective.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that we are also discussing renewable energy in this newly elected parliament. we haven't done that since the election. there will be a report from the committee on industry, but it will probably take a few months. that is why it is good that we have this subject on the agenda. but the epp did not sign the request because we have some doubts about the way in which this is being brought up now. i share the concerns expressed by commissioner piebalgs. another question is: there are some companies that are already doing a lot in the field of renewable energy, and others that are not yet doing so, and if you treat both equally, it is not differentiated enough. we have to do something. we must create the right conditions, as politicians in europe and at national level, so that those who invest heavily in renewable energy will find good conditions and therefore be given additional incentives. i thank commissioner piebalgs for his clear statements of principle. i agree that renewable energy is an important part of a strategy to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and help us meet the kyoto target. another important area is energy efficiency, and we believe that nuclear energy should also make a contribution. but i would like to put one last thought to the commissioner and to my colleagues: i believe that we must set new priorities in the field of renewable energy. a great deal has been done in the field of wind power and photovoltaics. but we know that both of these forms have problems. in photovoltaics, the money we have to spend to save a ton of co2 is still a lot. we have much greater potential in biomass, and also in the use of heat, i.e. solar energy for heating purposes. the commission is moving in the right direction in tackling this issue and improving the framework conditions in europe for the use of solar energy for heating purposes and for the use of biomass in general. i think you have the support of all the groups in this parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner. i am particularly grateful to the commissioner for his factual answers to the questions put by the communists and the socialists. because what's there of ideological... (interruption of the debate) yes, mr swoboda, just listen to what i have to say. the ideological implications you have wrapped up in your question are beyond description. the commissioner has given a factual answer and has taken the opportunity to make some points of departure on his prospects for a sound energy policy. but now to use the windfall profits of the energy and oil companies as an excuse to distract from one's own responsibility for renewable energy is a mistake which i think the socialists and communists here must take responsibility for. we have just heard the figures: 60 billion euros in profits! the oil prices, mr turmes, are not only driven up by the oil-producing countries and the oil companies, but above all by the states through taxes. in my own member state, germany, it is estimated that each year over 30 billion euros of additional tax is due to citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i mean, what we can do is on the table. we have a good memory of the debate on biofuels. it was not the fault of the european parliament that there was no obligation to include, but the member states' reluctance. and you, mr swoboda, are going to give the commission a task which it will never be able to fulfil. we must remain on the ground where we have the means to act, in the security of energy supplies, in the development of alternative forms of energy, in the promotion of research, in the overall framework. we must take this responsibility seriously, but we must not divert attention by making the point of the excessive profits of the oil companies the subject of this debate. in 1973 oil reserves were estimated to be sufficient for 30 years. today, they are far more than sufficient because new oil fields have been discovered with these gains. we are counting on them to take responsibility for the security of energy supply.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during the conciliation on the single european sky package, parliament stressed the need to balance the various elements of the package in such a way as to address the institutional, economic and technical aspects while developing a genuine social dimension. the commission had agreed to provide a proposal for a community air traffic controller licence in due course. you are here today to debate this community licence. the commission intends to pursue three objectives with this proposal for a directive. firstly, like parliament, the commission attaches great importance to the balanced development of the various elements of the single sky package. this proposal is a key element of the social pillar. this is why the social partners have been closely involved in the preparation of the directive. secondly, the reason why we proposed the introduction of a community inspector licence is because of a safety-oriented approach. this joint licence will provide the opportunity to enhance the safety of air traffic management by raising the standards of training for controllers. the proposal also identifies and, where appropriate, adopts eurocontrol's regulatory security requirements for the training of controllers with a view to transposing them into community law. thirdly, the single sky legislation will establish functional blocks of crossborder spaces to reduce the fragmentation of airspace. the licence will facilitate the organisation of these services on both sides of the border and will contribute to the mobility of the air traffic control workforce. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. in order to put an end to the current diversity of national rules, the proposal for a directive introduces high community standards covering the full range of competences which are essential in terms of safety. these include the conditions for entry to the profession, the structure of qualifications, qualifications, the content of initial training for inspectors and language skills, both in english and in the mother tongue. this problem of the language regime was certainly one of the most sensitive points in the council's discussions. the commission relied on already accepted international standards. the added value of the proposal is therefore not so much in the development of these standards as in their introduction into a community framework which will allow for a truly harmonised application. i particularly expect a lot from the certification of training providers, which offers a solid guarantee for the issuance of a high-level licence. as you are no doubt aware, the council's work has progressed well and a general approach was adopted at the transport council on 9 december. this approach is consistent with the logic of our proposal and i would say that it clarifies our proposal in several areas or strengthens it, especially where practical management arrangements are concerned, for example to better manage mutual recognition or to apply the directive to current licence holders. i would also like to point out, mr schmitt, that most of your amendments deal with the same subjects as those raised by the council. the adoption of this report, ladies and gentlemen, is a step towards convergence between the positions of parliament and the council. i have the impression that the council is prepared to discuss with you the approximations needed to facilitate a rapid adoption of the text and i can confirm that the report is on exactly the same page on the most sensitive point, namely the language regime. the proposals in mr schmitt's report strike a balance between legitimate security concerns on the one hand and the mobility and free movement of inspectors on the other. the commission therefore looks forward with confidence to parliament's position on this matter. i would like to thank the rapporteur again and say how much this licence for air traffic controllers will help to move towards a single, safer sky for all europeans. i therefore hope that parliament will help us to bring this constructive process to a successful conclusion.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful to you for your comments, which have made it clear that we have a proposal from the commission which is largely accepted by parliament and ultimately by the council. we should therefore try to get a common directive in place as soon as possible, and then it will come into force. the situation in europe is still characterised by the fact that european airspace is one of the most congested in the world. the high volume of traffic on the one hand does not, however, reflect a flexible space, but rather a fragmented european sky. the situation in the member states today is that air traffic control systems are often not compatible. national regulations, procedures and performance levels are often still the order of the day. this was the starting point for the commission and parliament to launch, under the slogan 'single european sky', four packages of measures almost two years ago, with the aim of finally dissolving this fragmentation in european skies. i was rather reserved at the time because, unfortunately, the council was not able to implement fully what parliament had envisaged and wanted in these packages of measures. but at the moment we can be confident that the member states - at least on the issue of crossborder airspace blocks - are clearly willing to move towards each other, so that we could still succeed in creating a single airspace in europe within a reasonable period of time. but we also put forward - and you did so - further requests in connection with the four regulations, because the discussion at that time also made it clear that many things are not compatible in the field of air traffic control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the safety of aircraft. this is all the more surprising when you consider that many of the conditions, many of the standards, are now regulated by international regulations of the icao or eurocontrol. however, we have different individual regulations in almost all member states, which means that the certifications of the respective air traffic controllers are not compatible. i therefore believe that this harmonization is absolutely necessary. i think we can do three things with this. firstly, by standardizing training and continuing training - of course at a high level - we achieve an even greater degree of security, which is in any case desirable. you brought it up yourself: a central issue is the question of language competence, which is not guaranteed in all areas today. the second point - and you have also stressed this - is who is training? how is it checked, how is it certified? the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the third point, which i do not consider to be unimportant, is that pilots are still generally denied the opportunity to practise their profession in another member state with their training. i think these three points are all important, and that is why we should put them into practice as soon as possible. there is no dispute here, if i understand correctly - at least that was the mood in the committee responsible. there my report was adopted by a large majority. the discussions with colleagues also show that there is hardly any disagreement. there are still minor differences with the council, as always, but i am confident that we will reach a common settlement as soon as possible. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report by making helpful suggestions, by suggesting or criticizing at one point or another, so that we have come to a conclusion that allows us to reach a positive decision together as a parliament. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the pse group the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur. the directive on air traffic controllers' licences is an important step towards achieving our great goal of a single european airspace. firstly, it is the prerequisite for the creation of functional, cross-border airspace blocks. secondly, we now have a harmonized admission and training requirement at a high level in this area as well. we are also making it possible to increase the mobility of air traffic controllers, which is urgently needed in view of the 1,500 air traffic controllers that are missing in europe. thirdly, the high level of uniform regulations contributes to a significant increase in safety. in this context, i am pleased that the rapporteur has also taken up my idea of implementing a harmonised first-language teacher training. it also makes us in europe better prepared for extreme situations such as hijackings or other dangerous situations. it is important for us to reduce excessive national requirements for local languages - i am not speaking specifically of english - to justified individual cases in order to increase mobility. it's the only way to prevent a backdoor shutdown. the socialist group takes the fears of the trade unions seriously. we therefore want to see social dialogue explicitly included in this directive. it is important to us, particularly in the light of the heated debate on the services directive, to have established the host country principle for air traffic controllers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the community. the air traffic control profession is now more attractive than ever, a european profession, and i hope that many more young people will choose this career path than in the past.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. my group voted in favour of mr schmitt's report in the committee on transport, although we are of course a little saddened that our proposal to consider air traffic control as a public service was not accepted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's internal market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the european union is not forced to take action to prevent the introduction of new technologies. if we succeed in harmonizing certain policies and creating a level playing field, then in all cases this always raises social standards, it always raises safety and it always leads to fairer competition between us. the rapporteur has gone that way. of course, he also recorded certain other things, of which i would like to highlight two. firstly - and this was said by my predecessor - we said to the air traffic controllers: no, the law of the country in which the air traffic controller provides his services must apply. mrs. lichtenberger, i know you too well by now. you said that social dumping must not be allowed to take place in this area. social dumping must not be allowed to take hold anywhere! if we make this a principle in this directive, then we have a good chance of changing the services directive in general, of abolishing the country of origin principle, because this actually leads to legal erosion and social dumping. the second point, which is of course of equal interest to me as rapporteur for road checks, is that mr schmitt has proposed that there should be a uniform or harmonised list of sanctions, and i very much hope that this will be adopted in the council, because we need this on the road as well. it is not possible for different member states to assess the same infringements in a somewhat different way. i believe that harmonization within the european union is urgently needed and that is why i hope that you will succeed in doing so. i am a little late with my report on second reading, and then of course the chances are greater that i will be able to do that in my report. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is an important occasion to point out today, on international women's day, that women are not sufficiently involved in decision-making worldwide. i am glad that the commission will now also be taking part in our debate, because the questions will focus on how the beijing platform for action assessment of ten years ago has developed as our most important basis for action on women's rights worldwide. the un is currently in new york evaluating the results of the platform for action, and the european union has a very important role to play here. as rapporteur, i of course followed the european union and its activities very closely in beijing at the time, and five years later in new york at beijing + 5 and now at beijing + 10 with a delegation from the committee on women. it is an important step for us, and i congratulate the luxembourg presidency on this, to defend the rights of women there through good and skillful negotiation. there has been a major push by the united states of america to reopen the platform for action for negotiations to reopen the barrel and to have influence again in the 12 critical areas - especially in the area of reproductive and sexual rights, specifically in abortion. the luxembourg presidency's skillful negotiations also helped to prevent this. i regret, however, that the commission did not also raise its flag in new york and that it would have been represented by a commissioner or perhaps even by mr barroso. the questions we are putting to the commission and the council today in the 12 different areas must assess the progress made and, of course, also point out the gaps in these areas which still need to be filled. we have received reports from the member states in the union. the luxembourg presidency summarized the reports and made an assessment at a conference. progress has been made in this area. we have succeeded in creating sensitivities in the area of political participation. in some countries there have been breakthroughs, mr president, in your country, spain, we have a government that establishes parity between men and women. we have not seen the nasty breakthrough we expected in the last european parliament elections either, after the ten new member states sent only 14% of female observers. so there was some movement here. the european countries are doing quite well in assessing the interparliamentary union in terms of participation in governments, although we still have countries in france or italy with only 10% participation. that is why the women and the women's committee are still calling for quotas. quotas are necessary to involve women in political decision-making processes. we have given a very strong impetus to this with our european anti-discrimination policy. however, implementation in the member states is still largely inadequate. we have put emphasis on reducing violence through various actions against violence, such as the daphne programme, the stop programme. we have given a lot of space to trafficking in women to make it clear that we cannot accept that up to 500 000 women are smuggled into the european union for the purpose of sexual exploitation. we cannot accept that virtually one in five women in europe will be the victim of some form of violence. we want a gender institute which provides us with the basics, statistical data which can help to orient our work even more concretely towards combating discrimination of different kinds. we want to have a programme for equal opportunities alongside the policy framework on gender mainstreaming, in parallel with the question of integrating women into the labour market and the well-established demand for women. we want to have a european year against violence, and the commission and the council have not yet done so. that would have to be called in 2006. nothing has happened yet. we also lack concrete proposals on how the gender institute should be designed. so there is still a lot of work to be done in the implementation of the commission and the council. goodwill alone is not enough. what we need is action. symbolism is beautiful on a day like international women's day. now come 365 days of work. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the beijing platform for action was a milestone, and the eu commission's policies in the past have often been a beacon for women's policy. i hope that this will continue to be the case and that we will not come to a standstill in our policy on equal opportunities for women. i was very disappointed in your speech today, mr špidla, you spoke a lot about what has happened in the past, but i have heard little about what you want to do in the future. we've been waiting for this gender institute for a long time, but you haven't said a word about gender budgeting. i have not heard from you about how we should eliminate the pay gap which is indeed a cause for concern. i didn't hear anything about the day against violence against women. the president of the council said it's coming next year; you said amnesty international had already done that. yeah, what now? we haven't heard anything about it. i hope that we are not just pursuing equality policy today, but 365 days a year. i would have liked to have had a more detailed view of the situation. i heard nothing but empty words. as my predecessor has just mentioned, we also have genital mutilation, honour killings and forced marriages in the european union. i call on the eu member states and the european commission to really act as a coordinating body here and to do something about it, because i think we have to send a signal here today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this year, again, the international women's day on 8 march will be an opportunity to draw attention to the still undignified and unjust situation of women worldwide. women continue to be disadvantaged and discriminated against in all areas of life. equal opportunities in areas such as education and employment are far from being achieved. higher education is often denied to women. the balance between work and family life is often impossible for women because of the lack of childcare facilities. typical female occupations are poorly paid, despite demanding work. women are victims of violence and sexual assault. these often come from the women's immediate environment. recently, there have been more and more reports of honor killings and stoning. according to a study by the un world population report, some 5,000 girls and women have been killed in the name of honour in at least 14 countries, including pakistan and turkey. the unknown number is much higher. but also in crisis and war zones, in refugee camps and wherever public order has collapsed, the conditions are often catastrophic. worldwide, 150 million women and girls have been subjected to female genital mutilation. it is estimated that in germany alone, at least 24,000 women are affected. in south africa, a woman is shot by her partner or ex-partner every six hours. i'm protesting against the police violence against the women's demonstration in istanbul this weekend. we all need to do a lot more for women's rights. i call on governments to finally enforce women's rights effectively. the quality of life of women is in dire need of improvement. women must be granted the same rights as men. violence against women must not exist! (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i'm here on international women's day to speak about violence against women. violence against women is on the rise everywhere. it is shocking that the number of crimes against women has increased so much in recent years, especially in human trafficking and forced prostitution. in this context, i am also deeply shocked and disturbed by the recent events in turkey, where peaceful women demonstrators who were raising awareness of their concerns were brutally beaten. let us look at germany from turkey. in berlin, a young turkish woman who has left her husband is executed by her brothers in the open. the brothers justify this brutal murder with the honor of the family. this is the sixth honor killing in germany in four months. where is the cry against these murders? why is there no greater public outrage in society? violence against women is everywhere, especially in families. it is estimated that one in five women in the eu will be a victim of violence at least once in her life. this condition is unbearable. violence against women must finally be on the political agenda, not just on international women's day. abused women should not be ashamed to go public and point out their situation. they are the victims, not the perpetrators. i therefore support the declaration of 2006 as the year against violence against women, as called for in the joint resolution on international women's day. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. my group fully supports this report. in the european union, 68 million people are currently living in poverty and social exclusion. the unemployed, single parents, migrants and migrant women are particularly at high risk of poverty. it is therefore not surprising that children from such households in particular are also at very high risk of poverty. in germany alone, according to unicef, the number of poor children has risen to 1.5 million, and germany is considered a rich country within the eu. three key factors determine the proportion of poor children in rich countries: social policy, social trends and labour market developments. for example, family income in germany has fallen by 23% due to falling wages in the bottom 10% of the income scale. so here's my request again: the present report must be adopted and the march council meeting must be vigorously devoted to the social situation in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. social cohesion can only be considered successful when a part of society is no longer simply written off. this applies above all to older workers and especially to women. it is not acceptable that the head of the employment office should demand with impunity, as in germany, that the employment agencies in the east of germany cease to provide care for older workers. we must not allow thousands of unemployed people over 55 to be ostensibly thrown out of society and their life and work experience to be thrown away. a successful economy must build on the knowledge, but above all on the experience, of older people and is dependent on it if we are not to fall into the demographic trap. however, the commission did support this in its communication at the beginning of the year. the lisbon mid-term review no longer mentions that older workers are also really needed at this level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rise in unemployment to almost 20 million in the eu is mainly affecting women, people with disabilities and workers who are discriminated against as being too old when they are over 50. the employment rate is falling and has led to drastic cuts in social security systems. a committed social market economy policy must take special care of the marginalized, of young people without sufficient schooling, of citizens with a lack of social integration. mr silva peneda is absolutely right. this draft report is ideologically loaded. it has not improved much, even with over 100 amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the idea of a central authority with the power to grant authorizations, and it is a fatal reminder of state control in the long-failed socialism. we are counting on the involvement of the social partners, on the european social dialogue. i would like to see the report on the state of corporate social responsibility become a must-read for managers. mrs figueiredo continues to claim that the lisbon strategy under-emphasises the social aspects. so that is what our commissioner spidla stands for. social policy is as important as stable prices, cost reduction and reduced budget deficits. we need a balance between economic growth and employment if social inclusion is to succeed. it still calls for an increase in the financial perspective and the structural funds. where's the money coming from? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a new social policy agenda should not be a collection of wishful thinking but should focus on feasible measures, in particular investment in education, training and lifelong learning and a significantly higher employment rate, in order to reduce unemployment. it is the main cause of social exclusion. (applause from the centre)
president of the council. mr president, the nonproliferation treaty remains the cornerstone of the global nonproliferation regime. it is therefore important for the european union to preserve the integrity of the treaty in all its aspects and to ensure that the treaty review conference scheduled for 2005 is a success. the npt review conference will have to find a balance between the three pillars of non-proliferation, nuclear disarmament and the peaceful use of nuclear energy. at the same time, it must take due account of the main nuclear non-proliferation issues, which concern in particular the democratic republic of korea, iran and the so-called khan network. the council is currently working on a common position to make a positive contribution to the review conference. as regards the democratic republic of korea, the presidency of the european union expressed its deep concern at the declaration made on 10 february 2005 by the dprk that it possessed nuclear weapons. it noted with regret the announcement by the republic of korea that it was suspending its participation in multilateral talks on its nuclear programme for an indefinite period. we must therefore strongly urge the democratic people's republic of korea to reverse its decision to withdraw from the six-party talks as soon as possible, so as to allow negotiations to resume and to find a negotiated and peaceful solution to the crisis on the korean peninsula. we reaffirm that the european union is strongly in favour of the six-party talks process to resolve this crisis. it is important to urge the democratic republic of korea to comply with the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. respect for international obligations, both in the nuclear field and in the field of human rights, is an essential condition for the european union to develop bilateral relations with that country. we also strongly encourage the authorities of the dprk to strengthen dialogue and intensify contacts with the republic of korea. as regards iran, the paris agreement is currently being implemented under the strict conditions laid down, namely the total suspension of all enrichment-related activities and all reprocessing activities without exception, as the iaea has been able to verify. negotiations on long-term arrangements began in december within the three working groups on political and security affairs, nuclear affairs and economic and technological cooperation, and within the steering committee. a first major series of working group meetings took place in january 2005. obviously, obtaining objective assurances that iran's nuclear programme is exclusively peaceful will continue to be of paramount importance. reports are being prepared for the steering committee meeting in march, which will be an important opportunity to take stock of the situation. i would add that, at the same time, negotiations on the trade and cooperation agreement and on a political agreement resumed in january 2005. both sides are negotiating seriously and as long as the iranians continue to participate in the negotiations, there is a chance of success. however, it is important to remain vigilant about the need for iran to maintain, under the supervision of the iaea, a complete suspension of its activities without exception for as long as negotiations on long-term arrangements are ongoing, with a complete suspension being a condition for their continuation and completion. we also conveyed these considerations to the president of the united states, mr bush, and to mrs rice when we spoke to them a few days ago in brussels.
member of the commission. mr president, i am speaking here, of course, on behalf of my colleague, mrs ferrero-waldner, who is unfortunately on a mission. the commission agrees with the council that the npt must be preserved by all means and even strengthened wherever possible. this is recalled in the eu strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, adopted by the council in december 2003 and to the implementation of which the commission contributes in close cooperation with the council. the strategy recognises in particular the need to ensure adequate financial means within the community budget and competences. in support of this implementation, the commission presented its proposals for the next financial instruments to the parliament and the council in october 2004. the european council also stressed the need to strengthen the european union's role in the world, and to ensure that the european union's role in the world is not limited to the united states. the commission proposal is currently being examined by the budgetary authority. we hope that this will result in more resources to promote the european union's actions in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation of wmd during the period 2007-2013. as regards the npt in particular, this financial means should support actions aimed at strengthening the three pillars of the treaty: non-proliferation, disarmament and cooperation in the safe and peaceful uses of nuclear energy. the commission attaches particular importance, in the context of the global partnership, to the commitment against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and related materials it made in july 2002 at the g8 summit in kananaskis. this involves the implementation of projects that make it possible to effectively assist third countries in collecting, securing and/or disposing of nuclear or radioactive material; to effectively control the export of, or combat illicit trafficking in, materials and equipment that could be used to manufacture nuclear devices; to ensure the conversion of experts and scientists previously assigned to arms-related activities and, finally, to contribute to the safe development of nuclear applications. all these initiatives would help to achieve the ultimate objective of the non-proliferation treaty. since that year, the commission has been working on a pilot project decided by parliament at the end of 2003. this pilot project is currently financing an exploratory study led by unidir/sipri, the united nations institute for disarmament research and the stockholm international peace research institute; it will help the commission, in collaboration with parliament and the council, to move forward with the programming of the new financial instruments. the commission plans to present the results of the study in november at a conference in the european parliament bringing together parliamentarians and delegations from the member states comprising representatives of national parliaments and governments. as regards iran, as you know, the european union has just resumed dialogue with that country on the basis of and in the context of the follow-up to the paris agreement, concluded between iran, france, germany and the united kingdom, with the support of the high representative of the european union. this agreement and subsequent monitoring of the implementation of iran's voluntary decision to suspend all enrichment and reprocessing activities led the european union to relaunch its policy of differentiated and phased engagement with iran. we have therefore resumed negotiations on an agreement covering sensitive political issues such as the promotion of human rights, the fight against terrorism, the middle east peace process, weapons of mass destruction and trade and cooperation. the commission is negotiating trade and cooperation aspects in good faith, taking full account of the overall context of the nuclear talks and building on progress in this area. we believe that this should make a decisive contribution to our collective effort by paving the way for lasting relations and long-term cooperation between the european union and iran. we are convinced that this agreement and the prospect of wto membership could support the necessary economic and social reforms in iran, thus facilitating the full reintegration of iran into the international community. i now turn to north korea. the announcement by north korea on 10 february that it was withdrawing from the six-party talks and that it had developed nuclear weapons was obviously not very sensible, despite the conciliatory words of kim yong il a few days later, when he proposed to resume the talks if conditions changed. this has made an already difficult process a little more complicated. the recent visit of a chinese envoy to pyongyang gives hope for a resumption of talks; the european union is not prepared to accept the new situation in the middle east. developments inside north korea, including interim measures in favour of reform and the resulting social tensions, have recently led to increased control by the authorities. this has implications for north korea's foreign policy. we have seen similar scenarios in the former socialist countries of europe. the position taken by the european union is not to react excessively to the strong statements coming from pyongyang. we will continue to make clear to the dprk that the nuclear problem must be resolved and that the six-party talks are the best way to deal with this issue. we will continue to urge the dprk to fully comply with all its international non-proliferation commitments, including the npt and the iaea safeguards agreement, and to abandon any nuclear weapons programme altogether. at the same time, the european union believes it is important to encourage more contacts between north korea and the outside world and to support economic reform and change in the country.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons is of fundamental importance for the security and defence policy of the european union. in may we will see a conference to review compliance with the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, and we think it is necessary and sensible that an official delegation from the european parliament should take part in it. it will be of the utmost importance that the member states of the european union actually agree on a common position on this matter and that they also jointly defend this common position. the conference will also be an opportunity for us to reflect on where we stand in respect of compliance with the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. here are some developments that give cause for concern. first of all, north korea. we have heard that north korea has withdrawn from the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and at the same time declared that it has nuclear weapons. we as the european union have no means or means of forcing this decision to be reversed in any way. we expect, however, that north korea will resume talks with its partners, in particular china, and that in this way a peaceful solution to this conflict will be possible in the medium and long term. at the same time, we are very concerned about developments in iran. the temporary suspension which has taken place here is a positive development; however, we expect this temporary suspension of the enrichment programme to be converted into a permanent suspension. the talks being held by the three foreign ministers, and in which we expect our partners, such as the united states, to take an active part in this diplomatic settlement of the conflict, should help us to arrive at a common solution with regard to iran which is in the interests of both iran and the european community.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the year 2005 is a decisive year. the question is whether the policy of peace will succeed in making the breakthrough towards nuclear disarmament. this applies primarily to iran and north korea, but also to pakistan, india, israel, europe and the usa. the year 2005 will therefore also be a decisive year for the basic idea of the european security strategy. let us create security through effective multilateralism, that is, through international treaties such as the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons (npt) and the strengthening of international organisations such as the iaea or the un. the npt review conference in may must address the most pressing issues of global security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new drug, the introduction of a new drug test, and the introduction of a new drug. but we must also see that the disarmament obligations laid down in this treaty are finally implemented by the states which possess nuclear weapons, because otherwise they lack any credibility that they really want to stop the proliferation. i call on the european union as an actor to play an active role in the run-up to the negotiations, but also in the negotiations. we're doomed to succeed this year. i urge the council and the commission to adopt a progressive position. we should try to put elbaradei's seven-point plan into action. questions such as enrichment of uranium require a renewal. the signing of the additional protocols must become the rule. secondly, violations of the npt must be seen as a threat to world peace and sanctioned accordingly. let me say a few words about iran: it is about the future development of the middle east. europe cannot accept that iran will one day have nuclear weapons. we expect iran to be absolutely transparent and to cooperate with the eu and the iaea as a guarantor of the renunciation of nuclear weapons. the bush administration must actively support this. only the americans can make commitments or make checks to see if economic sanctions are being eased. the security issues in the interests of iran should also be discussed. i would like to make this urgent request to the council and the commission. we must also be very careful with regard to iran - and this is my appeal - not to compromise or abandon our values during these negotiations. human rights must never be a bargaining chip. i would just like to appeal to north korea to return to the negotiations and the commission should check whether europe is willing to play an active role in this. it's about our credibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this would be a violation of the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons and we demand their withdrawal. and last but not least, the mininukes. there is a historical difference here, it is a departure from the cold war of deterrence to an active warfare, a disaster for the future.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons is of central importance, but it is under threat. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of nuclear energy. the eu? some may wonder. yes, the european defence paper, prepared by the european institute for strategic studies, says: lothar rühl, former state secretary in the german ministry of defence and co-author of the paper, summed it up. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the future of the nuclear industry in the european union. in this context, it is simply scandalous that the social democrats have refused to include a call for a europe free of nuclear weapons in the resolution on which we are voting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear safety of the community is not compromised. senator roche of the network against nuclear weapons reiterated this point in brussels last week. the european union has a duty to ensure that the nuclear weapons it has developed are not used in a way that would be contrary to the interests of the united states. for a europe without nuclear weapons!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the late nato secretary-general manfred wörner once said that once knowledge of a technology, such as the making of atomic bombs, is in the world, it can never be eradicated from the world. this very pessimistic analysis seems to be correct, and before the review conference this year it almost feels as if the dams are breaking. take a look at this on the map: in a region that is connected by land, pakistan, india and china have nuclear weapons, and soon korea and iran will follow. these are all countries with land connections, with conflicting interests and the blockages and dangers that can result from this. in such a region, can countries like indonesia or the philippines say in the long term: we are not doing that? so if korea and iran get their way, there will be no stopping this issue. this seems to me to be quite clear, and that is why i think that the position that has been put forward here in relation to iran must be supported. we should give the three foreign ministers and the european union a chance. i am glad that the united states of america has adopted this strategy of making progress through negotiations. preventive strikes are likely to do more harm than good in this case, given the developments and the fact that there are obviously already underground installations that cannot be moved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it's important to say one thing: iran cannot blackmail us. on the other hand, we should do everything possible to ensure that iran - as the president-in-office of the council has said - suspends all developments until other options are identified at the end of the negotiations. the european parliament should also be clear that improved relations with iran can only be achieved if the nuclear issue and the human rights issue are resolved. for example, a cooperation agreement with iran - insofar as it is being negotiated at all, which is not currently being done, as a result of the luxembourg body - should have no chance of being ratified in this european parliament unless iran takes a sensible line. it is also clear that the npt, the iaea, the un and others must be included. and that's true for north korea as well, because i also think it's necessary to make it clear that you're willing to help this country, that people are suffering so much, that you're willing to give these people improvements, and that this might cost us more than we've been willing to spend so far. we should also ask ourselves - and mr ford will probably come back to this later - whether the european union should not be involved in the current round of six, if we are already involved in the financing. i think we should consider how we can also be politically involved. in any case, i believe that the fight against the nuclear capabilities of these countries is of crucial importance for the overall approach and for the fight against terrorism, because it also avoids miniaturized forms, dirty bombs and the like. we must see the connection here, because it is not just the classical nuclear strike option that is at stake, but also these options. that is why we cannot take this task seriously enough.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the non-proliferation policy is clearly in crisis. there is hardly any disarmament policy left. the review conference in may offers the chance of perhaps a breakthrough. we need the constructive attitude of all, including the permanent five and therefore china, which is increasingly playing the role of hegemonic power in its region. only one country is ignoring this rising china, and that's north korea. china's goal of a nuclear-free korean peninsula is being ignored. north korea is working on warheads, on delivery systems, on missiles, it's impeding the six-party talks, it's destabilizing the entire region. the reason for this is that north korea is a dictatorship that is desperately clinging to its power. this threatens our democratic friends in the region: south korea, taiwan, but above all japan and the united states, which guarantee the security of these countries. we owe them our efforts, which must have four objectives. we must strengthen the non-proliferation treaty, the european union must participate in the six-party talks, the arms embargo against china must be maintained and we must promote democracy worldwide. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can agree with my predecessor, except for the last sentence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i love this city, it's a beautiful city. perhaps one day we will reach an agreement with the french government that we can hold our plenary sessions in toto in brussels. but as long as the contract is in place, there should be no question about it. we should make it clear to the north koreans that their activities are endangering the entire security fabric of the east asian region. south korea feels threatened, but japan and taiwan feel threatened, and i think we should put all these regional security issues at the forefront. mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, we must try to ask our chinese friends to exert their influence. you always say you have no influence, but i think it's just postponed for diplomatic reasons. the only country that can get the government in north korea to resume the six-state talks - i don't want to talk about stopping the construction programs - the only country that can really do that is the people's republic of china and the communist party of china. we must make clear to china that it is also in its own interest that the security fabric in the east asian region is not disrupted. we must also make it clear to china that we accept its role in the asian arena, but only if it also assumes its responsibilities in a positive way. so, mr president-in-office of the council and mr commissioner, let us try to persuade our chinese friends to intervene in north korea.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the subject of north korea, i would just like to say that in my view, china is the only country that can convince north korea to change its course, because china has overcome its own form of communism, at least in the economic field. that is to say, they saw themselves as able to create wealth. the stone age communism which still reigns in north korea politically and economically can only be overcome by corresponding chinese pressure or persuasion. as rapporteur for iran in the last election, i want to make it clear on the subject of iran that we do have constellations of interests there that can be put into a denominator. on the one hand, iran wants to conclude a partnership and cooperation agreement with the european union. we, the european union, want iran to move within the framework of the international atomic energy agency and to meet its demands. as someone who personally considers the peaceful use of nuclear energy to be something positive, i am not fundamentally opposed to a country using nuclear energy, as long as it is ensured that the highest possible safety standards are guaranteed and that the cycle of uranium enrichment for weapons production remains under international control and thus avoids iran. if we can really make it clear to iran that there is a link between the partnership and cooperation agreements on the one hand and compliance with what the international community demands in terms of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, and that this link cannot be broken, then we can reach a conclusion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot sacrifice the human rights issue in favour of an agreement if iran in return complies with its nuclear demands.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have had very theoretical and very intense debates on the european neighbourhood policy in recent weeks and months, and we are now seeing that the spirit of democracy and human rights that we have infused into this policy has infected our neighbours. the georgians were the first, ukraine followed, and now in lebanon people are beginning to stand up for the values we are putting into our neighbourhood policy. secondly, around the mediterranean, our neighbours have begun to organise free elections for the first time in the palestinian authority, the freest elections ever in the arab world. in the first few days of january many of our colleagues were able to witness the pride with which the palestinian people organized these democratic elections. that's why we have to be more ambitious now. if jordan supports this peace process, if egypt supports this peace process, then those who want to systematically disrupt it must not be partners in our neighbourhood policy, and we must express this clearly and unambiguously. the fact that the european union has not yet been able to reach a decision on the issue of the palestinian refugees is a serious matter. the activity of hezbollah is no longer so much directed against israel as it is against what president abbas wants to do in terms of peace. hezbollah knows that if it can organize two or three more terrorist acts, as it did in tel aviv, then this process is once again in danger. we must therefore state clearly and unequivocally, in the interests of the palestinians and of president abbas: if hezbollah does not change its course, it will be placed on the terrorist list of the european union, just as it is now on the terrorist list of the united states. i regret that this is not part of our compromise. there is an amendment which seeks to introduce this. i believe that we need this clarity in the sense of a new european neighbourhood policy for the palestinians, for the arabs around the conflict region, but also in the interests of europe.
the commission has already done so. we agree that we want a service directive. we also agree that we need to make fundamental changes to this directive. and you mentioned proposals that go to the exclusion of social services or health services. that's a path we can take. however, we also need to make profound changes in the sense that we must abolish the principle of country of origin as a fundamental principle of this directive. i think that's pretty clear. i am sorry to say that your remarks were not very satisfactory. the commissioner, unfortunately, is always able to say: we are creating clarity, and at the same time you are creating confusion. you said you wanted to make suggestions. but, commissioner, you cannot make any new proposals without at the same time withdrawing the directive. what do you really want to do now, to withdraw and make new proposals or to wait until the european parliament has done its job? (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. as for sending experts, the european commission and the directorate-general for taxation and customs policy have already taken such steps and there is no backstop from the chinese side. i would point out that the commission is also taking similar steps towards countries in the accession stage, providing technical assistance by sending experts to bulgaria and romania, for example. as regards the second additional question, it is not so much about counterfeiting as it is about the large-scale chinese imports of apparel. i myself intend to make such an initiative to the commission, in cooperation with my colleague peter mandelson, because this is essentially a trade policy issue, not a customs issue, but it is causing serious problems in several eu member states, including the country i know best, hungary.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i agree with you that the european union must take further action in this area and i would like to ask you if you can promise us as a parliament that we, as the european union, will once again offer the chinese, for example, at our expense, customs officers who will assist the chinese authorities directly in china in keeping goods from our market which do not comply with the rules of the world market. because i think that's a big problem. i was in my constituency on friday at a company. and i learned that in china, they're now building whole street cranes, high-tech devices, you can't tell them apart from the ones built here. i think we need to take action on this problem in the interests of the competitiveness of our companies, and perhaps offering staff to do so would be one way of doing so.
member of the commission. the enlarged eu depends on imported energy for 50% of its needs and is increasingly dependent on external energy sources. by 2030, this dependency could grow to almost 70%, with 90% of oil and 80% of gas consumed coming from outside the eu. imports of gas from russia currently make up 26% of total gas consumption in the eu and the relevant figure for oil is 25%. in this respect it is important to know that russia has always been a completely reliable energy supplier to the eu. the eu-russia energy dialogue has established a good relationship in the energy field, and the commission believes that russia will be the most important and reliable energy supplier to the eu for the foreseeable future. notwithstanding this, however, the community needs to ensure diversity of supply and make maximum use of its own indigenous energy resources. such a policy makes sense in terms of security of supply, sustainable development and the pursuit of our lisbon objectives. for these reasons the new commission will be pursuing the following energy priorities: first, energy efficiency. a simple comparison of the way in which the different eu member states have addressed energy efficiency will show the possibilities for energy savings, which will contribute significantly to meeting the eu’s kyoto targets. it will also enhance our competitiveness. this spring i will present a green paper on energy efficiency, outlining the concrete measures to be taken at community, national, regional and local level that will lead to those savings. second, supporting renewables: towards the end of this year the commission will publish a communication on renewables, in particular assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of existing support mechanisms in the member states. i will closely monitor the situation so that there is a clear move towards achieving by 2010 the target of 12% of the union’s overall energy consumption coming from renewable sources. third, supporting clean coal: approximately one-third of eu electricity is produced from coal. if we wish to retain this, a major effort needs to be made to increase the efficiency of coal generation and to succeed in developing co2 capture and storage. europe should take a leading role in research in this area, and the commission will be examining the possibility of a joint european project. finally, i should like to mention establishing and improving energy dialogues with a wide range of energy producers, consumers and transit countries. enhanced dialogue between the eu and opec was recently agreed upon at the regular ministerial-level meeting. a dialogue with the caspian countries will be pursued and the existing annual high-level meeting with norway will be continued. in addition to this, and to ensure that these policies fully meet this challenge, it is clear that a wide public debate should take place on increasing eu external energy dependency. for this reason the commission intends to adopt by the end of this year a new green paper on security of the eu energy supply, with the aim of promoting a large public debate. the input of the european parliament during the preparation and follow-up of this green paper will be vital.
the commissioner spoke of the reliability of russia. today the democratically elected president of chechnya, mr mashadov, was shot dead, and mr putin has already awarded the murderers of the chechnya people with russia's highest order. i just want to ask you if you want to be dependent on such a regime for the long term. i would like to ask you specifically whether it is true that during the period of the turmoil in ukraine the transmission systems in ukraine were bought by a russian consortium and whether this step is irreversible.
member of the commission. with regard to energy supplies from russia, i come from a country that does not have the easiest of relations with russia. but on evaluating all the energy resources supplied from russia, i discovered a continuous flow of energy resources. so, from the point of view of energy flows, russia has been a very reliable partner. but we should diversify our sources. as for concerns about russia buying energy sectors in other countries, if the laws permit it, then this is completely legal. in the natural gas market, for instance in latvia, the gas is partially owned by the gazprom company. but this is a commercial project and i have no objections to that.
i'm not going to tell you. thank you very much for this information. we adopted the seppänen report yesterday. and the other thing that was also there was this: we have liberalized downstream, but upstream we still have the big three, namely algeria, russia and norway, from which we get our gas and a lot of our energy. i agree with mr posselt here and therefore ask you: what efforts are you making to influence russia in particular, in the sense that we do not have just one supplier in russia who de facto grants the licences? what are you doing upstream to achieve diversification that will help ensure security of supply and also help to further reduce gas prices for our customers?
member of the commission. to start with ignalina, the second reactor at that plant should be closed by end of 2009. that is not a decision by the commission, but part of the accession treaty. the situation is therefore quite clear-cut. i recently met with the lithuanian foreign affairs minister and he confirmed that there are no concerns as regards the impact that closing ignalina will have on energy production in lithuania. while this closure will definitely change the balance in the baltic area, it will not create any particular difficulties for lithuania or for other baltic countries. i therefore see no link between the closure of ignalina and security of supply in the baltic region. it is difficult for me to comment on the position of poland, but my contacts with the polish government and authorities have shown that they are open to developing this project. i have no doubt that this will be in the interests not only of lithuania but also of poland.
i would just like to ask one additional question: firstly, can the commissioner imagine extending this electricity network to the west? secondly, should old nuclear power stations, such as those in poland and lithuania, which do not meet modern standards, be maintained and at the same time those with much more modern standards, such as those in germany, be shut down? is this not a problem from the commission's point of view?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report which appears here every year is not a final report but a workshop report, and it also expresses the criteria which we ourselves have chosen to monitor the quality of our work in the committee on petitions. in conclusion , without the usual fancy talk in this house , i 'd like to say: we are actually pleasingly efficient, in comparison with the work of many petition committees at national level. if the foreign ministers say that europe needs a telephone number for the world, it is safe to say that the european parliament already has a mailbox for the citizens. we have done a very good job from a number of angles. firstly, we have a certain overview of the different national structures. secondly, we can intervene in processes that are well implemented in different ways - lisbon or tampere may be just a figurehead - but which are not yet so well established, but are still in flux; we are also in a position to help the commission to address some of the shortcomings and thus to be a window on the reality of the european union, beyond all the official channels of government. another point on which we are not doing badly is the fact that, compared to national parliaments, we have very little to do with majority and minority positions, that we have very little to do with protecting and supporting the governing party. however, we should strive for improvements, general quality criteria for our work with third parties. firstly, and this is what the report calls for, the time limit within which the commission will act on our request should be significantly reduced. the second point is that the time limit within which the council or a member state must reply to the commission should also be shortened. in that case, we would very much like a representative of the respective presidencies to take part in the work of the committee on petitions. moreover, we would like to see a presidential commissioner or coordinator for petitions, ideally six months before the start of the presidency, in order to follow up important petitions in good time. finally, we must take action on the question of the distinction between the institution of the ombudsman, for which we now have the right to appoint staff, and the instrument of the committee on petitions. i think there's still a shaky level of misperception here. if we can be identified more clearly, we can certainly do our jobs better. it is not just about quality criteria to the outside world, but also to ourselves. the committee on petitions is by its very nature a sui generis committee in the breadth and depth of its work. i know that some of my colleagues on this committee have certain sui generis reflexes and think that we want to have an extra sausage. i think it is in the interest of the european parliament and of each and every one of our colleagues that we should be able to deal with the petitions that come up as efficiently as possible. if i have said that the work of the committee on petitions is good in the end, it must still be said that for individual colleagues the work is sometimes quite unsatisfactory. we have identified shortcomings and approaches in three areas. the first concerns the staff. we believe that the committee is suboptimal in terms of staffing in terms of continuity of content and procedures. i'm going to say this bluntly. sometimes it seems that the house administration sees the work of the committee on petitions as a criminal battalion. this should be changed. we also need to improve the software system available. secondly, there is a strong desire on the part of members to specialise their work, and thirdly, the public has an interest in greater rigor in the time-frames already mentioned and in improving transparency. the citizen has a right to a better follow-up of his petition. we have different approaches to do justice to the richness, the breadth and the speciality. the fullness of union policy is growing, so is its breadth, and there are sometimes difficult details in terms of specialization. we must be able to make decisions early on about the processes involved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we invite you, commissioner, very warmly to participate in and accompany the work of this working party.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have three reports for debate and i would like to concentrate on two of them, because i can fully support what mr garriga polledo said, and that is probably the last point which needs to be discussed. i would like to thank mr dombrovskis very much for the effort he has made to deal with the budgets of the other institutions in 2006, because i think it will be a very important year in the course of the financial negotiations with the council. i would like to say very clearly - and i support our rapporteur in this - that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. if we want to have a lasting and credible debate with the commission on how best to use the limited resources available to europe, we must also look at ourselves and, accordingly, at the other institutions to see how we can achieve the greatest possible effect with the least possible resources. i am a little concerned that we as the european parliament are being a little too reckless with the dividend we have earned by being able to finance very quickly the buildings here in strasbourg and brussels and now also in luxembourg. i do not think that would be the right thing to do. on the contrary, the european parliament must also prove to itself that it is able to cope with the resources at its disposal. i support the approach of our rapporteur, who has clearly placed the question of working conditions at the centre of this debate. we are now 25 member states with - if i remember correctly - 21 languages. it has become more difficult to work together, even in small groups, at the level of political groups and in working groups, when there are no adequate resources in terms of translation capacities. this is a very important point if we as a parliament are to ensure our ability to work and to be effective. but i do not think it would be useful in this context to think about equipping the chamber with computers so that we can read the amendments. this does not fit with our voting procedure. i also do not think it makes sense to wire the whole parliament and put a wireless lan throughout all the buildings; these are not the core tasks we have to do here. i would ask the bureau of parliament to deal with these matters very carefully. this brings me directly to mrs jensen's report on supplementary budget no 1/2005. we in the epp group have proposed that the budgetary procedure itself should be used to make the necessary cuts in the building stock. i very much regret that the bureau was unable last night to release appropriations which it is foreseeable will not be needed, and to reduce the budget accordingly, in the context of the supplementary budget. it is a pity that this was not done. it will come back to us shortly, when things are foreseeable. it must be said quite clearly that if we made a huge amount of 142 million euros in 2004, which is almost 10% of the parliament's budget, then i will at some point ask myself whether it makes any sense to draw up a budget for this house if this budget is handled in a completely different way and thus what we are for the parliament's budget is actually disregarded by the budgetary authority, because of the gentlemen's agreement. this is a point that must be dealt with very seriously. i'm not ready to do this show anymore.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not today's debate is also a litmus test for the charter of fundamental rights. i think it will be seen whether the commission takes seriously the values enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, such as human dignity, or whether it turns a blind eye to violations. does the commission put its hands in the pocket and hide behind the member states or does it actually reveal the contradictions? why can the commission not explain to us today that on the one hand the british government claims that there is no such trade, that there are no payments beyond compensation, and on the other hand the romanian government has closed this clinic. you have not given us an explanation for this today. does that mean that you do not take this point seriously, that you are being lulled by these appeasements, or are you prepared to actually look at this evidence? we have a lot of evidence, online, from journalists, from other documentaries, that clearly shows that payments were made. mr kyprianou, common sense would have to tell you: what reason should romanian women have to supply eggs to british clinics without payment, which is a high health risk for them? i would like the commission to take this debate more seriously, not to hide behind appeasement or behind the resolution. we are aware of the draft directives. as guardians of the treaties, they have a duty to ensure that there are no ethical bombs lying around in the european union. you have to make sure that we show the red card here, not only as a parliament, as we intend to do with our resolution, but also as the european commission, to send a very clear signal that such trade is not to be tolerated and that the commission will do everything, really everything, to put an end to this violation of human dignity. the commission must also show that it is serious, that it is looking into this problem and perhaps will use common sense and contact the romanian government, which is an acceding country. the commission has also made it clear to the european public that we will not allow the trade in human beings or human parts at european level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for having once again clarified the principle that we cannot accept trade in human cells and tissues in europe and that we support free donation. i thank you for the basic clarification. i agree with those who have said: the commission must investigate the case more closely. there is a contradiction between the british and the romanian statements, and the epp will put forward a motion in the vote, asking the commission in writing once again to clarify this contradiction. i personally think that the british authorities' account is not at all credible. mrs. mcavan, you read that beautifully. we all have the note from the british embassy which says what you have just read. it is your right, perhaps even your duty, to defend the british government in the run-up to an election. we have media that have been to romania. and in the next few days, tv footage of interviews with women who have done it for money will be broadcast on european channels. then i would like to see you continue to defend what the british government has presented here. there may be some people in britain who think the £1,000 is right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're looking at the tip of the iceberg here, and there's a huge problem here. and if we can identify the tip of the iceberg, then we shouldn't obscure the issue and prevent at least those we can apprehend from being held accountable. i would also like to say something to mrs ries which i very much appreciate as a colleague. we agree on many points, but i cannot understand why the liberal group intends to vote against paragraph 11. firstly, it is a joint resolution, and secondly, it simply says: 'calls on member states to take measures to prevent the exploitation of women in the application of life science'. we shall be able to agree in this house that we are against the exploitation of women, and on international women's day!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you have not answered all the questions that have been asked, commissioner. you have made a very strong reference to the directive on tissues and cells. but the question has also been raised whether it does not constitute a violation of the charter of fundamental rights. i think that the charter of fundamental rights cannot be said to be a question of subsidiarity. i also do not want to send the message to the european public after this debate tonight that the violation of human dignity is a matter of subsidiarity. i would ask you to answer that again. i would also have been interested in your answer to mr blokland's question, because this is also an ethical question which you should not leave unanswered because it concerns the public and the european parliament.
president of the council. mr president, five years after its adoption, the european council will be called upon to discuss the relaunch of the lisbon strategy again, at the time of the mid-term review of the strategy. as the commission has proposed, we must give this strategy a new start by focusing our action on achieving stronger and more sustainable growth and creating more and better jobs. the european council will thus be able to confirm the relevance of the strategy by clarifying its challenges and its purpose. the objective of growth and jobs must be pursued through synergies to be developed between the three dimensions of the strategy: the economic, the social and the environmental. in this context, the european council will also set priorities for union action in the social field. the review of the social agenda should complement and support the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy, in particular as regards the promotion of the social dimension of economic growth. on the environment, the european council should underline the contribution of environmental policy to growth and employment and confirm the need to integrate environmental considerations into the lisbon process. the european council will also be discussing the commission's communication on the sustainable development strategy, but i will come back to it later, because it is a separate item on the council's agenda. the european council will also consider how to improve the governance of the strategy, at both union and member state level. the issue of governance is really at the heart of the mid-term review. it will be decisive for the success of the strategy. for the presidency, this complex issue can be reduced to a few essential points. firstly, the adoption of a set of integrated guidelines, which will allow the synchronisation and rationalisation of the various processes that currently exist. the multiplicity of processes and reports contributes significantly to the lack of legibility of the strategy in public opinion and to its effective implementation. in the light of the guidelines given by the european council, the commission should now present proposals for guidelines comprising the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines, integrating them into a single and coherent text. these integrated guidelines would then be endorsed by the european council and, where the treaty so requires, formally adopted by the council. it goes without saying that parliament's views will be taken fully into account in this process. secondly, the introduction of national action programmes over three years. the aim is to give each member state greater latitude in choosing the priorities and means of action for implementing the strategy, within the framework defined by the integrated guidelines i have just mentioned. on the basis of these integrated guidelines, it is proposed that member states draw up national action programmes after as wide a consultation as possible between all the actors concerned. in order to facilitate consultation and coordination and the implementation of what has been decided, each member state could appoint a person responsible for the implementation of the lisbon strategy. thirdly, a follow-up procedure based on regular evaluation of implementation at intermediate meetings. the idea is that each autumn from 2006 onwards, member states will present a single report on the implementation of their national action programme. on this basis, the commission will present an evaluation report each year in january, possibly accompanied by some proposals for adjustment, without this however being able to lead to a total revision of the integrated guidelines, which will be valid for three years. the european council will then decide on these adjustments. the various council configurations concerned are continuing their work on all these issues relating to the revision of the lisbon strategy and the general affairs council will return to them just before the european council on 16 march. these are the major projects which are currently being discussed and prepared for the european council on 22 march.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a month ago at the conference of presidents i presented our ideas for a partnership for sustainable growth and employment, thus giving a new impetus to the lisbon strategy. our objective for this partnership is simple: we must modernise and revitalise our economy, our social model and improve our quality of life through truly ambitious reforms. we must recognise that appropriate environmental policies can produce results with a double benefit in terms of jobs and ensuring sustainable growth, and in a context of economic stability we must improve the capacity of our companies, from the largest to the smallest and medium-sized, to create new and better jobs. we also need to boost productivity through more investment in knowledge, innovation and people. today is the first opportunity for one of the partners with whom we want to work - one of the most important partners, the european parliament - to state its views and set its priorities. i, like other members of the commission, welcome this debate. we want to thank the political investment that has been made in bringing forward a comprehensive motion for a resolution that reflects a wide range of views within this house. we share many of your priorities, we are sensitive to your concerns. later today we will debate the forthcoming european council. that summit will be the start, and not the end, of the journey as far as the renewed lisbon strategy is concerned. i fully support the remarks made by the distinguished representative of the luxembourg presidency. we will only succeed if everyone feels that they have a stake in europe's success. that success depends on presenting a vision that mobilises popular support, gives a real sense of ownership and, above all, leads to real action at national, regional and local level. however, to mobilise support it must be clear why these reforms matter and that they are part of our wider vision. they are about people and the issues that matter most to them: the chance to work, a decent start for their children, security in retirement or ill-health, and quality public services. they are about a better quality of life and a better standard of living in every part of an enlarged union, from our city centres to the heart of our rural and coastal communities. they are about binding the union together through 21st-century infrastructure and regional investment. they are about making the most of european excellence in our business community addressing, in particular, the concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises and in all areas of creativity, but also in science and technology and in our unique model for society. they are also about achieving all this in a way that guarantees future generations the same or better possibilities than we ourselves enjoy. this goal of sustainable development underpins the lisbon strategy as it does the action of the union in every area. these are broad economic, social and environmental objectives. they were at the heart of the lisbon strategy when it was launched and remain at its heart today. i can promise you that this commission will fight to ensure that they do so tomorrow, not least as we discuss the future financial perspectives over the coming months. then and there we will test the real commitment to cohesion and solidarity of those who are today at least in their political discourse on the frontline of defence of the european social model. nevertheless, we need to face facts. the first five years of the lisbon strategy have not delivered the desired results. there has been insufficient delivery, little ownership at national level and even less among society at large. in key areas, from productivity to research and education spending, early school-leavers or poverty, we have barely made an impression on closing the gaps that existed five years ago. we can add to this the challenge of intense global competition and an aging population. these are no longer challenges for the future, but the day-to-day reality for our businesses and workers. this is why lisbon needs a new start, with fresh ambition. this is why we propose a new focus on growth and jobs in order to meet those challenges. a dynamic and innovative europe offers us the best chance to do this. vice-president verheugen will set out in more detail how this new focus translates into concrete action and results. this does not mean downgrading action in other areas. our new social agenda, our review of sustainable development and our action on climate change show the commission's commitment to moving ahead across a wide range of areas. let me turn to two specific concerns that your resolution addresses. the first is the balance within the lisbon strategy. i know a variety of concerns have been raised about the new focus on actions to promote growth and jobs. this is not at all in contradiction with our social and environmental policy. growth is a necessary precondition for an effective and more ambitious programme in terms of solidarity, just as fighting unemployment is the best protection against exclusion and poverty. without growth, without a dynamic economy, there will be no sustainable development; we will not foster convergence between regions and our social and environmental goals will slip out of reach. however, i fully accept that lasting growth relies, in turn, on parallel progress on cohesion, our social agenda and addressing unsustainable and damaging environmental trends. with regard to the services directive, we need an open and thriving internal market for services in the union, as well as high-quality, accessible public services. they are key factors for a successful society. yet we have identified a number of areas where changes will be required for the broad consensus that we would like to see emerge. we have said that we are ready to work pragmatically with you, the parliament, and with the presidency, in preparation for your first reading. in particular we need to ensure a framework that removes the risk of social dumping, has a broad coverage but does not necessarily cover healthcare or services of general interest and addresses genuine concerns about the operation of the country of origin principle. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude with a few words on the governance of the lisbon strategy. i do not think it is necessary for us to completely rewrite the lisbon strategy in the coming weeks. that being so, a number of innovations have been suggested by the commission, as well as - it must be remembered - by the parliament. we have proposed the creation of a european institute of technology; greater priority to be given to improving regulation, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises; a greater propensity to re-examine existing proposals; the use of state aid and tax rules in a way that encourages entrepreneurship, innovation and research; the refocusing of labour market reforms on measures to help women, young people and older workers to find and keep a job; the european union is also committed to the development of the european union's youth policy and the conclusion of a european youth pact. in reality, i think it can be said that people have a fairly clear idea of what ought to be done. the political challenge this time is to find out how we can help them to really do it at community level. it is a question of appropriation. it is above all because the member states - and society in general - have not really done their job that the structural reforms of the last five years have produced disappointing results. in reply, we have made the following proposals - which you seem to approve, if i may say so - of your draft resolution. first, the formulation of integrated guidelines at the level of the european union, including the current economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines, in order to give the member states a clearer idea of what they are committed to doing. for the first time, micro-economic reforms will be dealt with in detail. it will therefore be an integrated vision, encompassing macroeconomic policies, microeconomic reforms and employment policy. thus, lisbon will not only play a decorative role, but will really be at the heart of our economic policy. secondly, the development of national lisbon programmes adapted to national situations. the initiative is of course for the member states, but we have already prepared a european union programme on the lisbon strategy which presents the community-level initiatives and therefore specifies what must be done at community and national level. thirdly, a simplification of information obligations, both at community and national level, so that member states spend more time on implementing reforms and less time writing reports on them which most people are not familiar with. the reports should therefore be given less importance than the integration of a vision on the reforms in progress. our ambition is to develop active support for these reforms and to integrate them into the heart of national political debates. the spring european council will not be the end of the road, but will give political impetus to the new approach. but to be perfectly coherent, the political guidelines defined in march will have to guide the financial decisions to be taken in june. the union must not be content with being ambitious. if it wants to succeed, it must also mobilise the means to match its ambitions. in this respect, a voluntary agreement on the financial perspectives, giving its rightful place to cohesion, would be a decisive element for strengthening and developing our social model in the coming years. at the same time, the european council will also open the way to national and regional debates on the action programmes which the member states are invited to present this autumn. i personally attend a lot of these debates. the lisbon strategy must be inspired by the partnerships and dialogues that cohesion policy has put in place in recent years between the different national, local and social actors. without this, it will not be possible to mobilise the partners concerned by its implementation. let me say to you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that following my talks with the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, i find the very good reception given by these institutions in general to our review of the lisbon strategy very encouraging. i am particularly pleased to see the joint declaration which has been presented in recent days by the two major trade union and employers' organizations at european level. it is therefore possible to reach a balanced consensus for ambitious reforms. it goes without saying that in this partnership, the members of the european parliament play a major role if we really want to put these reforms into effect. that is why i ask you to make your contribution each year to the work of the european council in spring by setting, in accordance with the treaty, the guidelines which guide the process and, of course, to take the lead in political discussions by mobilising support at national, regional and local levels. that is our concept of partnership which the commission wishes to establish with you. we believe that on this basis, with this commitment, it will be possible to do much more for our europe. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the major initiative for growth and jobs that we are discussing here today is the commission's most important project for the next five years, and we know that we will be measured by the success of this project, but not only we. the success of this growth and jobs initiative will be the measure of all european institutions, because the people of europe expect that we will now really achieve a turnaround and maintain europe's competitiveness at a high level in the face of increasingly fierce global competition. i emphasize the word "high level". the recipes we sometimes hear about how to deal with the dangers of an aging society, with the dangers of growing globalization, with the increasingly complicated division of labor in the world, the recipes we sometimes hear that say, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will not be able to engage in competition from below, but we will have to maintain the view that europe's competitiveness depends on the quality, on the top position of its products and services. and we should not be too shy to make it clear that something which is produced and offered in europe can claim not only technological and qualitative excellence but also certain european values, such as the idea that our products and services are not produced with ruthless exploitation of the environment and human rights. i am firmly convinced that such a european philosophy of economic policy will also create lasting competitive advantages, because the other dynamic regions of the world will not escape the fact that people want higher environmental and social standards. the growth and jobs initiative, the new lisbon agenda, is a project which - i emphasise this explicitly - can only work if it is conceived as a partnership project. if anyone thinks that they should do this in strasbourg or brussels and we will watch, then it will fail again. it can only work if the european institutions and the member states see this project as a shared responsibility. i would therefore like to say explicitly to some member states who have expressed doubts about the way we are going to implement this strategy - the president has just said this - that we do not intend to set up a cumbersome mechanism of reporting, recommendations and sanctions, but rather a model in which the results of the policy are presented and developed in partnership. but it is necessary to have a summary progress report, and that can only be based on progress reports from the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. what we're proposing now actually reduces the burden. no one needs to worry that the commission intends to make rankings, naming and shaming, as they call it. but it must be possible for us to come together to realise what we have achieved in a year and what we still have to achieve. the second point is that the commission is strongly committed to the fact that the governments of the member states will appoint responsible government ministers responsible for coordinating the lisbon strategy in their countries. this strategy also needs to be linked to faces. the most natural solution would be for the ministers who are responsible for the lisbon strategy in the competitiveness council to take on this task. it would also mean that this council, which is in the process of finding a new role, could play that new role much more effectively. the commission recommends this very, very strongly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the commission will be presenting a report on the situation in the community, and i am sure that the commission will be presenting a report on the situation in the community. this question must be answered everywhere. we will. we shall very soon be presenting major policy initiatives in my own field on the following subjects, in a deliberate order of priority: the first is better regulation. the 'improving legislation' project - to put it mildly - has been languishing for some time. we need a clear political direction. it must be clear that better regulation is something that has a direct and immediate impact on the productivity and quality of the european economy. this is again something we can only do together. parliament must play a major role in this, as must the council, the member states and the commission. it is not just about future legislation and how we ensure that it improves competitiveness; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, there is a huge, almost untapped potential for economic power in europe, which is before our eyes and which is also talked about a lot, but little is done. i am referring to the 25 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, which provide two thirds of our total workforce. we should not be content to say to these 25 million people: you are the backbone of the european economy, and then do nothing. we need a policy that exploits the enormous potential for innovation, investment and creativity that exists in this area and translates it into jobs. i shall be proposing to you very soon a comprehensive modernisation and upgrading - i emphasise the word upgrading - of european policy for small and mediumsized enterprises. the third is industrial policy. the word itself is already causing anxiety in some member states. we need a modern definition of industrial policy for the 21st century. this can no longer be the policy of the past, where protective fences were erected around certain industries. again, the only thing that can be done is to maintain and increase competitiveness. but it is necessary to realize that we need a strong industrial base in europe on a lasting basis. this will require looking at european industry sector by sector and talking to all those involved - businesses, trade unions, parliaments and governments - about what framework is best for each sector to exploit its growth potential. the last point i would like to make is the issue of innovation. the commission will also be making new and far-reaching proposals in this area. innovation is the link in the chain between research, development and production where europe is not strong enough. we need to improve our ability to translate research into innovation, and we need to do that everywhere. here, the americans and others are much better. this commission is firmly convinced that europe is strong enough to face the challenges of global competition. we have at least one european company or european country that is world-leading in almost every sector of the economy. in other words, we can. we can learn from each other. we can support each other in realising the potential that exists in our societies. but we will also have to give the european institutions the capacity to implement such a policy. i cannot therefore conclude without pointing out that growth and employment policy, as an effective instrument for achieving our long-term political objectives, must be reflected in a set of figures, in the next financial perspective. i think there is only one thing to be said here: it would be a serious blow to the success of our growth and employment policy if the uncertainty about the next financial perspective were to continue for a long time. i urge the member states to be aware that large projects also need their preparation time. we're running out of time. it is also a question of credibility to the citizens of europe that we are prepared to demonstrate that our words will indeed be followed by action. and actions i can't change cost money. without a budget that is efficient and without a clear financial perspective, it will be difficult, if not impossible, to achieve our objectives. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! this is a very, very important debate and i would first like to thank the two rapporteurs, klaus-heiner lehne and harlem désir, very warmly for their work. i also thank the chairman of the steering committee, our colleague joseph daul, and the coordinator of our group, marianne thyssen, for their excellent work. but i also want to thank those - and i cannot name them all - who have helped to bring us, hopefully, a large majority for a good cause this afternoon. the commission mr president and mr vice-president has set the right priorities for its five-year term: growth and jobs. our group strongly supports this and we also welcome the fact that your commission is so strongly represented here today, not only in terms of quality but also in terms of quantity. it is about the competitiveness of the european union. let us look at a few figures in relation to our main competitors, our partners and friends in the united states of america. the productivity of labour per employee, if we take the eu of 15 with 100 as a benchmark, has fallen to 93 as a result of enlargement to 25 member states. in the us, however, labour productivity is 121. this shows the competitive advantage that exists in the united states of america. one of the main challenges is our ageing population, which is very encouraging in itself. but how do we use the experience of the elderly? the employment rate in the eu-25 is 40%, but in the united states of america it is 59.9%. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the integration of older people into the labour market. if we look at research and development, the european union, with its 25 member states, spends 1.9% of its gross national product on research and development, whereas the united states spends 2.8%. this shows the enormous effort we must make. our group very much welcomes the content of two amendments which refer to the need to strengthen the spirit of enterprise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means that we must ensure that those who are involved in the economy can also have confidence in those who are responsible for policy. it is crucial that we develop a growth-oriented macroeconomic environment, that we have a stable currency and dynamic economic and labour market developments and that we reduce public debt. i can therefore only encourage all the actors to reform the stability pact in such a way that, if it is reformed, stability policy will ultimately be at the heart of our joint efforts. what we need is reform, flexibility, ownership, less bureaucracy, and if we achieve all this, then this is also the prerequisite for solidarity with the people in our community, in the member states, who need our solidarity in the framework of a very sensible and far-sighted social policy. we call on the member states to contribute to a europe that is capable of development and growth, in which the economy grows. but that is not an end in itself. the aim is to create jobs so that people can get involved and take advantage of the opportunities in europe. this is our joint task now. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i share the view of commissioner verheugen that the implementation of the lisbon strategy is the commission's most important project for the next five years. i also share the view of not only the commission but of all the european institutions and all the member states of the european union. it is an integral project in which everyone must play an equal part if it is to be successful. we in our group - and i would like to express my thanks to the members of the ad hoc committee - have worked very hard, my colleague harlem désir, my colleague robert goebbels, and also klaus-heiner lehne, who has contributed very constructively to the fact that we have today a very broad and consensual text. we have long discussed what we must focus on when we talk about achieving the lisbon objectives. what i have heard today is a positive response to the messages we have sent out from our debate. yes, lisbon will fail if people feel that it is a project to rebuild the european social model, downwards if possible. but if lisbon is a project which increases prosperity in europe by increasing europe's intercontinental competitiveness while maintaining the social framework which can enable every person in this union to live in dignity, create employment, create social security for the young and the old, if this is the feeling conveyed by this lisbon project, then people will accept this project. (applause from the centre) the success of a project depends on whether people accept it or not. the european union has for forty or fifty years been about bringing peace to europe, about balancing the rich and the poor, about uniting the divided continent and overcoming division. we've accomplished all that. as long as this has been the case, people have seen europe as their project. but as this historic period draws to a close, the question is more and more: what is the purpose of europe? for more and more people, this question is very personal. in addition to the european catalogue of values, people are also asking about the european union's catalogue of useful values. the value of the european union is that this integrated europe, this single market, with its economic and social power which it can ignite, is the organised response of this continent to the global challenge. the lisbon strategy is to give it a social and economic meaning. that is why lisbon was a good start, a good decision. now, we've been going through this process for a few years. we are not satisfied. but this must not make us give up, but rather say: we must continue courageously. i think that the text we are going to adopt today shows that parliament will join the other institutions in this endeavour by a large majority: the commission and, i hope, the council and the individual member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not just us, not just the eu institutions, but above all the member states that must be involved. i expressly share the view of commissioner verheugen. i want to make this clear to my group. i was also pleased to see the president of the commission smile with pleasure when mr verheugen pointed out the link between the financial perspective and the lisbon process. the success of this project cannot be described by the phrase: more and more tasks with fewer and fewer financial resources. you can't do that! (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it may well be said that we cover. i'll take care of it. however, if the ceiling is set when there is no more financial volume available, then a qualitative decision must be taken on which investments under the lisbon strategy should be cancelled at the expense of which other tasks. the council is not doing that, and the member states have been very silent so far. but eventually, it's gonna come to the vows. i expect the commission to be as committed as mr verheugen has been today, as you, mr president of the commission, have been today. tell that to the heads of state or government, that this must be the very purpose of the financial perspective: it must serve the achievement of the lisbon objectives, if the lisbon objectives are to be taken seriously. this is important to us, as are its three points: better legislation, the strengthening of small and mediumsized enterprises and an active industrial policy which safeguards industrial jobs while at the same time improving environmental standards, the quality of our products and thus export and competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's our starting point. i thank all those who have contributed in this ad hoc committee to the fact that this parliament has a large majority on this crucial issue. we are clear about one thing: if this house adopts resolutions which have the effect of the right, the left will not participate. if this house passes resolutions in which we recognize ourselves as social democrats, then they will also have our support. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we now have a text of a resolution which i think we can rightly say is balanced and contains all the elements which are relevant to the lisbon strategy. it also provides a real impetus to revive the lisbon strategy. all three elements, both the growth and labour market aspect and the areas of social and environmental policy, have been addressed in an appropriate framework, with particular emphasis in my group on making clear the link between these two pillars. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is crucial that this should be made clear in this resolution. i would like to mention one aspect in particular, because i cannot deal with all the points in the short time available, and that is of central importance to me in this resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of public procurement, competition and the environment. i have been observing for a year now that this is not working sufficiently. in particular, the question of the review of the effects of legislation and also the question of the participation of the parties concerned in the process of drawing up a draft within the commission is unsatisfactory. the debates we have had, for example, on the services directive and reach, are also due to the fact that there has been no or only insufficient assessment of the impact of legislation and that the circles concerned have not been sufficiently involved in the development process. this must change, and i believe that is one of the main points raised in this resolution. i would like to conclude by making a few remarks on the role of the other groups in this house. i am very grateful that the socialist group, like the liberal group, has now decided to support this draft. it was a little different in the steering group, but i am glad that this decision has now been taken, because we need a large majority for this. it is crucial that everyone is involved in the lisbon process. i have a small problem with the position of the greens, who took a negative position at a parallel meeting in luxembourg without waiting for the outcome of the steering group's deliberations. this is certainly a little strange. perhaps the greens should read the text again and consider whether they should not vote in favour of it. otherwise, they will have difficulty explaining why they are against it.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank my colleagues, especially mr lehne and mr goebbels. it was a very constructive cooperation, for which i thank you very much. five years after the start of the lisbon strategy, we are at a crossroads. i would like to take this opportunity to make a fundamental point about the situation in europe. as in the 1930s, europe is suffering from the ulcer of structural mass unemployment. in my home country of germany, unemployment is higher than at any time in the history of the federal republic. in north rhine-westphalia alone - my home and that of commissioner verheugen - it has now exceeded the one million mark. at the same time, we are witnessing a growing debt in many member states and the exodus of science and research, while the intellectual, moral and political consequences of mass unemployment are spreading. declining voter turnout, dissatisfaction with politics in general, rising racism, anti-semitism, right-wing and left-wing extremism -- these are consequences of mass unemployment that we have to face. after five years of wanting everything and achieving nothing, europe must make a choice. we have the courage and the strength to finally take up the fight against mass unemployment. do we have the courage and the strength to achieve the reversal to more employment and growth? do we have the courage and the strength to focus not only on those who still have work but also to finally take into account those who want to work but cannot? my answer is clear: we must summon the courage and the strength, and it is equally clear that this requires our concerted efforts and an unconditional focus on greater competitiveness. let us finally see it for what it is: a prerequisite for more growth and employment. and growth and employment are the prerequisites for achieving the ambitious social and environmental objectives which we all support, as expressed in the resolution. the completion of the internal market as a development engine will play a key role in this. we must all no longer ignore the fact that the european single market has created more than two million jobs since 1993. in this context, can we afford to continue to have the european market for services on paper? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the removal of barriers to crossborder services holds enormous growth potential. if we want to put europe on a growth path and combat mass unemployment, we must start here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first thing to be said is that the unholy alliance which met this week across the rhine in westphalia is now the first thing to be said. mr chirac and mr schröder are waging a campaign of fear, full of half-truths and untruths. it is therefore particularly good - and i want to make this very clear - that the commission has finally started to fight this polemic. i want to congratulate charlie mccreevy on his passionate speech yesterday. let us have the courage to fight against mass unemployment. i think that we should not have this debate in strasbourg, but in brussels. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr lehne, because you have specifically mentioned it, it is not that we in the green group have taken it easy in debating this text. you will remember that in our lisbon coordination structure we have introduced many amendments into the discussion process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind you that when we started discussing this text in the steering committee, we agreed that there was no point in agreeing again on a general level, but that the lisbon process must also be concretized in this parliament. we shall continue to do so as the green group. we believe, for example, that it is absolutely necessary to reach an agreement on the freedom to provide services in the european union. my impression - i say this quite frankly - is that the bolkestein directive basically refers to the reality of the old european union and that the major challenges in terms of social convergence, including the major challenge of preventing social dumping, the major challenges that lie ahead of us after the creation of this great union, are not addressed at all by this bolkestein directive. that is why i take seriously what the chancellor and mr chirac have said. i think that this directive must be withdrawn and i think that we have the support of the socialists in this house for our amendment. if we do not want to disappoint the hopes of the poles, czechs or slovaks, for example, that this europe will actually experience social progress, if we do not want europe to be associated in the west only with social decline, we cannot support this bolkestein directive as it stands. this is a crucial point in the text for us. we would have expected this parliament to agree to this in concrete terms. as an environment and energy policy-maker, i was very pleased to see that many of the general building blocks of sustainability have been incorporated into this draft, which is being adopted today. i refuse to accept that these building blocks are only good for sunday's speeches on lisbon and that when we vote on, for example, reach, the research framework programme or genetically modified organisms in agriculture, everything is forgotten. so i think that our rejection, the green's rejection, is concrete, and we will continue the debate on the future of social justice, ecological reason and innovation with you in the coming months on the basis of these concrete projects.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! the difference between the majority of this house and my group in the mid-term evaluation of the lisbon strategy and the conclusions that follow from it is that they want to continue on the path of supply-oriented economic policy with increased competition, but we say that this is the wrong way! we are in agreement in this house on the objectives of the lisbon strategy, but we are completely different on the ways in which we can achieve them. the creation of jobs is the main objective and i can only achieve this if the demand for products increases and the economy is forced to make expansionary investments to meet the increased demand. the data should also be a reason for the most neoliberal economic thinking to accept that tax cuts do not create any new jobs when there is no demand, but on the contrary, they are either destroyed by rationalization or the increased yield is not reinvested or is fed into the state budget through taxes. the lisbon strategy must not mean competition for the highest incomes, but competition for highly qualified jobs, excellent education and training, quality of products, high environmental standards and high consumer protection. this also means that lower income groups, whose saving rates are not rising, despite what is often claimed, either need to get higher wages or have their taxes reduced - all the more so because there is more than enough policy space available, as productivity has developed much faster than wage growth in recent years. this is also reflected in the positive balance of trade of the majority of the member states of the european union. despite high social transfer performance, global marketable products were offered. low-wage jobs, part-time jobs do not help to eliminate the scourge of unemployment. if we want to become the world's strongest economic region by 2010, we must give priority to the social and ecological european union. this is the best economic support we can give.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the enlargement of the european union is objectively ushering in a new era of entrepreneurship. that's how people in other parts of the world see us. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a new era, to be and remain internationally competitive, while maintaining and developing high social standards. are we able to make economic, technological leaps into the new age and at the same time produce the new generation of products with the highest and highest environmental standards? mr president, commissioner verheugen and the president of the commission have given us very bold prospects. commissioner verheugen spoke of values, values in business management, values in social standards, values of social participation in business and in social life, and described these as a vehicle to drive this process of modernisation. i emphasize this, but i think it does not reflect the reality of many people's lives. they have fears of insecurity, they have fears that these goals will not be achieved in their daily lives. if we are to build this bridge, then our instruments must be reformed and then this bridge must also be built, for example in the general outlines of economic policy. i do not want to read any more of the old ideologies, but more of the social reality of people. we must reform our own instruments to achieve what we are working together to achieve here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. one of the most successful commission presidents was jacques delors, who had a vision of creating and completing the internal market. the vision for this commission could be the lisbon strategy. however, jacques delors had to deal with heads of government such as kohl and mitterrand, who also had a vision and a goal in europe. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the union. that is one of the fundamental problems you have, mr president of the commission: to overcome this and to make lisbon a reality, so that in the end it is not said: i had a dream, but nothing productive came of it for us. this is the decisive point. the commission can do a lot to help. i see commissioner mccreevy here, who in his field can make a very important contribution to this. i hope that you will be able to prevail against the member states where it makes sense to move europe forward. it is necessary to point out to the member states what they have to do. this is about transparency and comparability. we are currently seeing that the stability and growth pact does not apply the law in force, so i doubt that progress reports are sufficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in future, we must ensure that the economic, ecological and social objectives of the lisbon strategy are not in conflict with each other, but rather that they are all subordinated to the objective of the lisbon strategy. this makes it all the more important to focus on improving legislation in national implementation. there are member states - i come from one of them myself - which manage to tighten up the rules again and again. the most important thing will be to give the people of europe the confidence that the lisbon strategy can become a reality. our main problem is that some parts of europe no longer believe that we can stand up to the americans. if you can do that, we have achieved a great deal in europe. parliament is with you!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in consultation with the co-rapporteur, mr harlem désir, i would like to table an oral amendment which we believe covers the subject better. i should like to read out: after 'demographic situation' - i quote in english - 'calls on the commission and the member states to develop the necessary comprehensive measures in order to support complementary financing schemes, as a way of supplementing existing national pension systems'. the use of the words complementary financing is new. i ask the house to follow this oral amendment which has been agreed between the two rapporteurs.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. as a german, you are in a particularly difficult position here when it comes to talking about the forthcoming council and the stability and growth pact, because you know how hard the germans have had to part with the d-mark! the only way to convey the idea of separating from the deutsche mark to the german public in germany was to give them a clear assurance that there was a stability and growth pact, which would build on the tradition of the deutsche mark and maintain the stability of a currency in the long term. it is therefore particularly difficult, of course, when it is precisely the large countries such as germany and france that do not respect this stability pact, which they have won from the small countries, including those in southern europe, when they violate its rules and even change it - if they themselves have problems. i can therefore only encourage the luxembourg presidency of the council to stick to its position at this summit, and all the other members of the european council to do the same. we could consider changing this pact. we have also heard important arguments here as to why it can be applied differently at certain stages. the worst thing is to change the pact at the very moment when you have broken the rules yourself and got away with it. the 16 points proposed by jean-claude juncker are therefore the right way to reform the pact. the commission must remain strong, it must remain in the game. it cannot be left to the member states to decide when and where the special arrangements for the stability pact are to be applied. that is our position on this question. the commission must be strengthened, some amendments can be discussed and this should be borne in mind by the european council when it decides on 22 and 23 march. the council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is important that we now stand on the side of the democrats and human rights there too. i would therefore like this council to take a clear vote on terrorist activities, on hezbollah and everything related to it, unlike what we have heard from the council in this parliament so far.
president of the council. mr president, i do not think i have much to add to what i have said before and to the various comments made by the honourable members. i agree with mr muscat. we are facing a real tragedy. the problem of children being infected with the aids virus, especially in a country like libya where aids is still much more taboo than in most of our countries, affects families, affects an entire population. i think we need to work on that level too. we must offer our assistance to libya - it is being prepared, it is being implemented - to combat aids in that country, to improve the health system, so as to at least take account of this tragedy affecting the people concerned. and then, beyond that, we also need to send a very strong, very clear signal to libya and put some pressure on that country to get justice done and to get the health workers in question released. libya now wants to develop and strengthen its relations with the european union. it cannot do so if it is locked into an attitude of refusal with regard to these five or six people who have been unjustly sentenced to death.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make only two brief concluding remarks. the european union has very clearly indicated to libya a perspective of a mediterranean partnership. we have indicated objectives, some of which have already been achieved, such as the abolition of the embargo, while others, such as the full achievement of the acquis, are still to be verified. bulgaria is about to sign the treaty of accession to the european union and libya is well aware of the high political sensitivity in europe over the case of the six bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. the libyan authorities also know that decisions on joining the barcelona process will be taken unanimously at the next european council, at which bulgaria and romania will have the right to participate and speak, although not to vote. europe will continue to maintain direct contacts with libya, including visits to the families of the benghazi victims. i share the view of some members that we must stand by the libyan civilian population affected by the spread of aids. of course, visits to prison health workers will also continue, and in this respect i hope that the libyan government will continue to allow visits to prisoners without conditions. finally, i can assure you that the commission's action plan will be continued. we will continue our positive efforts towards libya, which we consider an essential partner in the mediterranean, and we will work to improve the situation of public services to the citizens - of which health care is just one example - to demonstrate concretely how the relationship with europe can be a real added value for libya.
the next item is question time (b6-0019/2005). we are dealing with a number of requests to the council.
question no 1 by mr bernd posselt (h-0107/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: kosovohow does the presidency of the council assess the state of preparations for the clarification of the status of kosovo and what steps are to be expected under the luxembourg presidency?
president of the council. madam president, the council agrees with the honourable member that developments in kosovo, under the auspices of un security council resolution 1244, will be particularly important in 2005. the luxembourg presidency will fully support the efforts of the united nations and the action of the special representative of the un secretary-general, mr jensen petersen, to stabilise kosovo. the council was able to discuss the situation in that country in the presence of mr jensen petersen at its meeting on 21 february. mid-2005 will provide a first opportunity to make a comprehensive assessment of progress towards effective compliance with un standards. the positive outcome of this assessment will determine progress towards a process to determine the future status of kosovo, in accordance with security council resolution 1244. the european union has been closely involved in this process, in strict compliance with the role of the united nations in determining the future status of kosovo. the thessaloniki summit clearly stated that the western balkans, including kosovo, regardless of its future status, are destined to join the european union. this means that the union will have an important role to play in the review of kosovo's status, to ensure that it is fully compatible with the european integration process. the council stressed in its conclusions of 21 february that kosovo should not return to the situation before 1999. its future could only be conceived in the form of a multiethnic and democratic kosovo, which ensures effective protection of minorities, preserves the cultural and religious heritage of all communities and respects the right of return of refugees and displaced persons, thus contributing to the stability of the region and thus adhering to the values and principles of the european union. the council invited the secretary-general/high representative and the commission, in close cooperation with the presidency, to examine with the united nations and other relevant actors what the future contribution of the european union to the efforts of the international community in kosovo to implement resolution 1244 could be and how it could contribute to the overall assessment of the implementation of the standards and its contribution to the subsequent stages of the process and then to report to the council.
the council has already taken a decision on this. the un resolution 1244 does not say a word about the future status of kosovo. the resolution is already five years old. the european union is not prepared to accept the new position of the united states, which has been in the forefront of the negotiations on the status of the union. in kosovo, unemployment is at 70%, and investment will only be made if the future is at least clear in the long term. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president of the council. firstly, on the protection of minorities, i believe that this is part of - i have made it clear - the european union's approach to a political solution in kosovo. there will be no political solution for kosovo without the protection of minorities, without the right of all refugees to return to their homes. i see. as regards the question of sovereignty, i believe that it is precisely at this level that a political solution must be found without anticipating the question of sovereignty. we are aware that the question is extremely complex and difficult; it must be the subject of negotiations which will have to be opened in due course. so i cannot give you a clear answer, but what guides us today is resolution 1544.
question no 2 is therefore withdrawn. question no 3 is withdrawn. question no 4 by mr papadimoulis (h-0118/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: foreign policy of the united states and syriathe assassination of former lebanese prime minister rafik hariri has raised international fears that lebanon and its neighbouring regions could be destabilised. condoleezza rice's statement indicates that the united states believes that syria is responsible for the attack. syria, which the us president has designated as an "axis of evil", condemned the attack, saying there was no connection between syria and the assassination of rafik hariri. what measures will the council take to prevent the united states from acting unilaterally against syria? article 19 of the treaty on european union provides for coordination between member states which are also members of the un security council. what action do these member states propose to take in this context?
president of the council. you know, unfortunately or fortunately, i don't know, i'm not the white house spokesman, so i can't give you a straight answer on this. as i have just explained, the approach shared by the european union and the united states favours the united nations and a united nations resolution. in fact, we are seeing some positive responses from the side of the country that has been clearly targeted.
question no 5 by mr agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra (h-0120/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: legalization of immigrants in spain at the ji council on 29 january, the representatives of germany and the netherlands asked spain to explain the mass legalization of illegal immigrants it was planning to introduce, because they considered that such a measure would have unavoidable consequences for the other eu member states. this process, which began on 7 february and is expected to affect around one million people, has already led to situations where immigrants have been dismissed for fear of being reported, and to a 'pull effect' that some spanish police unions have already pointed out. the principle of drawing up a common immigration policy was already raised at the seville and thessaloniki european councils. the recent green paper on an eu approach to managing economic migration submitted by the commission recognises that the decision of a member state to admit such third-country nationals has implications for other member states. and article iii-267 of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe states that the union shall develop a common immigration policy. in view of this, how does the council assess the request for clarification and the criticisms made in relation to the extraordinary legalisation by the spanish government?
president of the council. i think this question is not really connected with the previous question. i can only say that all countries with particularly vulnerable borders must make efforts to control these borders, to limit illegal immigration and to combat this phenomenon effectively. i leave the responsibility which you have referred to to the council of europe.
question no 6 by mr giorgos dimitrakopoulos (h-0125/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: single european sky and kosovois the council planning to create an operational airspace block including kosovo as part of the plans for the creation of a single european sky?
president of the council. madam president, the honourable member is informed that pursuant to article 5 of regulation no 551/2004 of the european parliament and of the council of 10 march 2004 on the organisation and use of the airspace in the single european sky, the council has no competence with regard to the creation of a functional airspace block, such as the one referred to by the honourable member in his question.
deputy writer. the council has already taken a decision on this. i would just like to ask whether this case does not also demonstrate what we have discussed earlier, namely that the difficult problems of kosovo cannot be solved by the old formula of 'standards before status', but that the status issue must finally be settled. the standards are not met if you don't know what the status should be. i would also like to make a point about the rules of procedure. i had called in a request earlier, very early, but apparently it was not received.
mr posselt, this has been seen. but i must tell you that two colleagues were even faster than you, and since i can only allow two questions, i had the other colleagues called.
president of the council. i agree with you that the 'norms before status' approach has its limits and that the time is coming - or will come - when the issue of status will indeed have to be clearly discussed. that time is surely coming.
question no 7 by mr claude moraes (h-0126/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: report by the justice and home affairs council on football publicity what action will the council take following the report by the justice and home affairs council to the council on football publicity and football information centres (13 january 2005)?
president of the council. there can be no tolerance for racist expressions and demonstrations, whether during sporting events or other events. i think we need to think about and act on this. those who engage in such racist demonstrations should know that they will be punished, but also that they endanger the continuation of sporting events. i believe that what we have done in part for hooligans should also be done for all racist expressions and demonstrations, which now tend to multiply on the sidelines of sporting events, and especially football matches.
question no 8 by mr van hecke (h-0131/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: human rights violations in uganda efforts to resolve the 18-year conflict in uganda have failed and violence has flared up again. the conflict has led to immense human suffering, massive displacement of populations, the collapse of social and economic structures and serious human rights violations. the lord's resistance army rebels continue to use extreme violence against the civilian population in northern uganda, abducting children to use as soldiers or sex slaves. what action has the council taken or will it take in the light of the european parliament's resolutions on human rights violations in uganda to ensure the safety of the ugandan people, especially children, and to put an end to the atrocities?
president of the council. the council remains deeply concerned by the conflict in northern uganda. it repeatedly condemned the serious violations of human rights and the atrocities committed against the civilian population, in particular by the lord's resistance army. the conflict in northern uganda is one of the main points of the political dialogue between the european union and the ugandan government. in this context, the representatives of the member states and the commission have regularly raised their concerns about the continuing violations of human rights in the north of the country. they stressed the need to put an end to the suffering of the civilian population through a peaceful and negotiated solution to the conflict. representatives of the european union and other international partners reiterated this position to the ugandan government. the union as such has also declared its willingness to support the peace process and to contribute to the economic reconstruction of the north of the country. a significant part of the union's humanitarian assistance to uganda is intended to support the most vulnerable population groups in that part of the country. despite the resumption of fighting following the recent expiry of the ceasefire declared by the government, the council hopes that the talks with the resistance army will be able to continue. it is also prepared to consider how it can increase pressure on both sides in order to achieve a lasting settlement of the conflict in uganda.
president of the council. indeed, perhaps the wording which puts the government and this so-called resistance army on the same level is not quite appropriate. however, i believe that the only way to achieve a settlement of this conflict is to push the ugandan government and the ugandan army into a phase of dialogue. i believe that without dialogue, there is no peaceful settlement possible. as far as responsibilities are concerned, i believe that we really need to examine the extent to which these responsibilities can be fixed, determined, and we must not exclude any option, including the option of the international criminal court.
question no 9 by mr rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0136/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: president bush's visit and transatlantic relationsthe president of the united states paid an official visit to brussels on 22 february and took part in the summit of the 25 member states of the european union. what is the council's view of the development of transatlantic relations and their future? the summit discussed topics of major importance to the european union, such as the middle east peace process, relations with iraq, iran, syria and lebanon, and, more generally, mediterranean policy. does the council consider that the united states and the eu have become closer in their middle east policy? is there any positive development on the part of the united states with regard to the kyoto protocol, and if so, what is it?
president of the council. it is quite right that transatlantic cooperation is essential for the middle east peace process. there will be no political solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict without the participation of the european union and the united states. so cooperation within the framework of the quartet is extremely important cooperation for the implementation of the road map and the relaunching of the quartet's work for the implementation of the road map, precisely, seems to be absolutely essential in this respect.
question no 10 by mr staes (h-0138/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: cooperation between the budgetary authority with regard to the distribution of the $1.2 billion from the ec's agreement with philip morris does the council consider that, in view of the fact that the european parliament is part of the budgetary authority, a consultation round between the council and the ep should be opened before a final decision is taken on the distribution and use of the $1.2 billion from the agreement between the european commission and philip morris on the fight against cigarette smuggling?
president of the council. i take note of the honourable member's remark, also with regard to the diplomatic response. however, i believe that there are still bilateral discussions between the commission and the member states. i am committed to the council talking to the commission to see in what context we can find a solution which, of course, also respects parliament's budgetary powers.
question no 11 by bill newton dunn (h-0139/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: fight against organised crime do any or all of the 25 member states ever report to the council on the activities of their intelligence services, such as mi6 in the united kingdom, in the fight against international organised crime? if so, which ones and how often?
president of the council. the council has not been informed of any activities carried out by the secret services of the member states in the fight against organised crime. no provision of title vi of the treaty on european union obliges the member states to communicate such data to the council.
president of the council. i don't think i told you there was no coordination between the secret services. you know very well that there is coordination between these services, among other things to combat terrorism and also against organised crime, against which the networks are linked. what i said to you was that this issue was not within the formal framework of the council, since it is not a competence of the union.
question no 12 by mr hans-peter martin (h-0143/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: practice at meetings almost all decisions are discussed and decided at council meetings which are not open to the public. nevertheless, council members regularly make details of these meetings public. what sanctions are there for council members in such cases? what is the council doing to ensure the greatest possible transparency, and why are not many more meetings - at least when it comes to legislative decisions - made public? what is the council's response to the accusation that many of its activities are carried out by an undemocratic body which meets and decides in secret?
president of the council. legally, there are no sanctions. it's very clear. and there are no plans to introduce any. we cannot at the same time call for greater transparency and, in the end, sanction the freedom of speech of the members of the council, even if they sometimes misuse that freedom of speech. i do not see how sanctions could be introduced in this respect.
question no 13 by mr james hugh allister (h-0145/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu special programme officeis the council aware that the eu special programme office, which oversees eu expenditure in northern ireland and the republic of ireland under the peace ii programme, is not subject to the provisions of the freedom of information act 2000 (united kingdom) and the freedom of information acts 1997 and 2003 (ireland) and is therefore not required to comply with the freedom of information acts in both jurisdictions as a public body? is the council satisfied with this situation, especially in view of the fact that a promised code of conduct on access to information for implementing bodies operating under the eu special programme office (seupb) never came into being? what steps does the council intend to take, in view of the eu funds spent in this context, to correct this completely unsatisfactory situation?
president of the council. i have no reason to believe that community law has been breached and i assume that the rules on information and control are fully respected.
question no 14 by mr trakatellis (h-0149/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: civil protection and the development of cooperation in the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership a civil protection assistance mechanism has been operating in the european union since 2001. between the 25 member states and bulgaria, romania, iceland, liechtenstein and norway. in the context of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, the author proposed to establish similar cooperation and to provide for the possibility of establishing an early warning system in the mediterranean area within the framework of the barcelona process, and it was decided to raise the issue of natural disasters and a civil protection mechanism at the plenary session of the parliamentary assembly to be held in cairo from 12 to 15 march 2005. does the council agree with the proposal of the author? what action does it intend to take to continue the fight against the dangers lurking in the mediterranean and to examine the possibility of applying existing mechanisms relating to prevention, emergency preparedness, information and public participation in the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership in order to reassure citizens? what is the assessment of the civil protection pilot project financed by the meda programme?
president of the council. i think the council alone cannot give you the answer. it must be put to all branches of the budgetary authority. once an operational system has been developed, it will also be necessary to provide for its financing. the two arms of the budgetary authority will therefore have to agree that this funding should come, at least in part, from community sources.
president of the council. you describe the ideal situation and indeed, this would be the best way to save a lot of money and to intervene with the means that are absolutely necessary. unfortunately, disasters always come as a surprise, and the anticipated needs are not always necessarily met. it will be necessary to take the utmost care in the area you have indicated.
question no 15 by mr czarnecki (h-0156/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: next enlargement how does the council view the possible accession of the southern central european states such as serbia and montenegro, bosnia and herzegovina and albania in the next decade or so? can the union be enlarged to include these countries before turkey joins, which would seem logical?
president of the council. i would say to the honourable member that although he and i know the date on which the negotiations with turkey will be opened, we do not know the date of accession. at this time, there are no other applications. you mentioned other countries. the way is open to them, if they do accept and meet the requirements. then the way will be open politically, that is to say, they will actually become candidates.
president of the council. i have no information from europol - europol is not an investigative agency, as you know - or from interpol, but we have received reports from the prosecutor of the hague tribunal which show that, in any case, the person in question, general ante gotovina, passed through croatia. is he still there? i can't answer that.
the council has already taken a decision on this matter. we have a very rare situation: first of all we have dealt with all the questions and at the same time we have completed the plan half an hour before the scheduled time, which is very, very rare. i want to thank you all. question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the next item is the report by mrs pia elda locatelli (a6-0046/2005) on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on eu funding, science and technology the guidelines for the european union's research funding [2004/2150 (ini) ].
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is only the love of research that compels me to take part in the debate tonight. i'll be honest, i would have preferred to watch the champions league match between fc bayern munich and arsenal london. i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very warmly. not only did you produce a good report, mrs locatelli, but you were also very willing to compromise. if we can send a signal tomorrow with a well-rounded vote, then that will certainly be the right support for our commissioner for research. we have had a long discussion this morning on the lisbon strategy. europe will only be competitive if we invest massively in research and development in the future. the commissioner always talks about the moment of truth. i agree with you, commissioner. we must equip the research budget so that we can finally achieve the lisbon objective. of course, this is not enough. public money is good, but we also need to get private industry, the private sector, to invest massively in research and development and to provide funds for this. i was pleased to hear tonight that you are planning to present guidelines to improve cooperation between research and industry in this particular area. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. the increase in funding only makes sense if it is used effectively for research. it is important to draw the right lessons from the sixth research framework programme, from the marimon report and from the criticism of the framework programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must ensure that we also successfully integrate small and mediumsized enterprises into the european research landscape. i look forward to the further discussion. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the rapporteur for a very good report. commissioner potočnik, it is now up to you and your colleagues to implement the research priorities. i would like to concentrate on one area of focus which is unlikely to be included in tomorrow's report, namely defence research. i have withdrawn a request to that effect in consultation with my group because of the possible confusion with the council. why did i become a defense researcher? our future constitution provides for the further development of foreign and security policy. we will also have to do some research in secret in this area. we must therefore be able to protect individual projects in the same way as the americans do in a black box. in other areas, however, where research is in the interest of all mankind, we should strengthen transatlantic research cooperation. this creates a level playing field in research dialogue which is not only relevant to americans.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. research and innovation are the key to solving many of the problems we face in europe. this has been emphasized many times, and it has also been emphasized many times that we want to increase the funds. i just want to make it clear that we're going to have a very difficult road. i am glad that parliament and the commission are on the same page on the question of increasing the appropriations, but when i hear the signals coming from the member states, i am very, very worried. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, but that it should not be able to take part in the negotiations. we want an increase, but i think we should nevertheless be aware that we still have a lot of money coming from the national research budget, and the member states should also increase their research budgets. at present the ratio between the european commission and the national research budgets is 5 to 95, perhaps it will eventually be 10 to 90, but certainly not much different. that is why we must pay close attention to the european added value when we choose our priorities. i therefore ask you to support amendment no 7 by the european people's party. i would like to make it clear that i do not share the view of mr lundgren, who is sadly no longer here, that what has been done so far has hardly added european value. there is a lot that europe needs to do, and i know from the medical field alone, where i myself worked at a university, that we need european cooperation in the fight against rare diseases and childhood diseases in particular if we are to be successful at all, and that is why we need to support these things more.
member of the commission. mr president, there are four major areas to be addressed. cooperation is the principal one: continuity in this area, a thematic approach but one that is based much more on industrial needs than in the past. the second is ideas: we want to create champions of thoughts and new-frontier ideas in the european union, because we really need them. the third is people: there is no research without people and how good we will be in delivering and really creating depends a lot on how well we do in research. the fourth is capacities. all these areas need to be addressed in a proper way so that we will get the best for the european union. everything must be done with more flexible instruments than we have had until now. they must be transparent, understandable, simple and, i hope, efficient and based on a kind of upgraded continuity leading on from the sixth framework programme. some of you mentioned ethical questions. it is true that they are not easy. they are important in science because people’s perception of science is certainly crucial to the success of the issue we are discussing. these are definitely not easy questions that can be addressed in a limited amount of time, but i agree that we need to address them in an open and tolerant way. i also think that a special role should be given to the existing ethics committee, which discusses and considers all sides of these important and sometimes difficult questions. small and medium-sized enterprises have been mentioned. they are extremely important because the european union has a different structure to some of our competitors. as a proportion we have more of them, and they should and could participate more in research than they do today. regarding enlargement and capacities, i would make two comments. one is that enlargement happened first in the areas of science and research, as scientists from the new member states were able to participate earlier in these areas than in any others. on the other hand, it is more difficult to have full integration in these areas than, for example, in the political field, where people can sit at a table and discuss vexing questions. so we need to do all we can to address that matter, but we also have to be clear that proper funds are required if it is to be addressed properly. i believe that science and research funds should primarily address the question of excellence. we need to have a highly competitive european union. only if the union as a whole is competitive can we rely on all the issues connected with questions of solidarity being properly addressed. i have listened carefully to all your comments. you have my promise that i will do my best. your support is good for me, although it does not make my task easier. we all have high expectations, and rightly so, because the future of the european union also depends greatly on the future development of the scientific and research field. (applause)
the debate on this point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. oral question (b6-0154/2005) by kathalijne maria buitenweg, to the council and the commission: oral question (b6-0156/2005) by mrs ewa klamt, mrs charlotte cederschiöld and mr carlos coelho, to the council and the commission: oral question (b6-0160/2005) by mr giusto catania and mrs sylvia-yvonne kaufmann, to the council and parliament, on the situation in the european union the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: oral question (b6-0020/2005) by kathalijne maria buitenweg, to the council and the commission on the situation in the middle east; oral question (b6-0155/2005) by mrs ewa klamt and others; oral question (b6-0159/2005) by mr catania and mrs kaufmann.
i am not sure that this is the case. the night sessions are not yet transmitted over the internet. we have limited capacity here. so far, no night session has been transferred. this is not an exception, but the normal case so far. if anything, we would have to discuss whether we are fundamentally changing that.
mr president, i wish to thank commissioner frattini for attending this debate tonight, which is the first on data protection during this parliamentary term, on the initiative of my own group, the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe. this is not the first time that parliament has examined the issue of pnr, but it is almost two years to the day since parliament first raised this issue. tonight’s debate is therefore intended to take stock of what has happened since then. i have been appointed rapporteur on the initiative by four member states relating to data retention. that is why some months ago we tabled two oral questions on the issue of pnr and the issue of data retention, with a view to having a public debate on two issues that raise serious concerns from the point of view of fundamental human rights, and to get more information from the commission on these issues. commissioner frattini, we were pleased to hear during the ep hearings of candidate commissioners that you attach a great deal of importance to defending fundamental rights, and i know that you are personally committed to defending citizens’ privacy. we appreciate that stance, but also want the commission to bring forward the proposals on data protection under the third pillar that we have been promised for so long. the european parliament finds itself in quite a conflictual situation vis-à-vis other eu institutions. we have strongly disagreed with the commission and council on the pnr issue, challenging their decisions before the court of justice, but unfortunately will have to wait a long time before the court issues its decision. on the data retention issue, i am unconvinced by the four member states’ initiative, with regard both to the content and the legal basis. i know that the commission shares these doubts. in general terms, the european parliament is extremely worried about the compliance of these provisions with international and european human rights norms, such as the european convention on human rights, and the related jurisprudence, as well as with eu law. that is why we are here tonight. on the issue of data retention, we know the commission has raised the scrutiny reservation on the correctness of the legal basis of the four member states’ proposal. the commission believes that a third pillar basis is not correct, and that a first pillar basis would be the right one. we would be keen to view the commission’s legal responding, since i have the same doubts and have requested parliament’s legal service to make the same legal check. however, we also have doubts on the necessity and proportionality of european data retention provisions. that is why we would ask the commission whether it supports the four member states’ initiative not only in terms of the legal basis but also in terms of the content. secondly, we would like to know whether the commission will ask the four member states to withdraw their initiative, a move the commission has not yet made. we would also like to know if and when the commission will propose a first pillar instrument. the commission 2005 working programme schedules for this month the adoption by the commission of a directive on the retention of data for law enforcement purposes. will this deadline be respected and what will the content of the proposal be? thirdly, we would like an update on the long-overdue third pillar data protection instrument that commissioner frattini personally promised would be brought forward. let me underline that the article 29 working party has already drafted a proposal for harmonised data protection principles for the third pillar. we would be honoured to hear your remarks on this issue. on the pnr issue, parliament has a keen interest and a right to have an update on the current action before the court of justice, with parliament objecting to the signing of the international agreement of 28 may 2004 that makes the transfer of air passenger data to the us possible. first of all, parliament has consistently requested the development of a push system, most recently in the amendment adopted to the 2005 budget. can the commission inform parliament whether there have been any developments? with a view to the protection of the privacy of european air passengers, could the commission inform parliament of the volume of passenger data which the authorities have access to and whether there is an effective filtering of sensitive data. also, are intra-european flights excluded? the commission has published a communication on a global eu approach on pnr. however, the commission is evidently not following a coherent approach, since on the one hand it has not finalised the international agreement with australia, while on the other hand it is ready to negotiate with canada on standards that are entirely different from those which apply to the us. will the commission follow up on the communication and will it start adhering to a truly global eu approach? finally, why has parliament never been informed about the negotiations on pnr at an icao level? the current practice is not democratic, transparent or justifiable. thank you, and i look forward to hearing your answers.
the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the data protection rules are applied. it is equally important and indisputable that the fight against crime is of great importance in our time. the balance between data protection and the fight against crime is extremely difficult. i'm really open and conversational about this. however, i must say that for many months now the question of the need for this template has not been answered positively. i can therefore understand and fully support the view that all the groups in the committee responsible are of the opinion that a nonsensical project is being pursued here. we need a clear answer from the commission. if there's a need, you can talk about it. if there is no need - and i assume that today - then we must do everything we can to stop this process. i am very concerned that the process is going on and on and that we get a proposal tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or at some other time, and we continue to discuss the proposal and it does not come out at all, even though the whole parliament thinks that this is wrong. i am therefore very interested in the commission's assessment of this. we are talking about lisbon, we want less regulation. but we are now on the right track to regulating something which makes no sense and which nobody wants, except the four member states who have taken the initiative here. secondly, if all the groups are in agreement and have expressed their concerns here too, then i expect the commission to make it clear to parliament whether it will make a proposal, when it will make a proposal and what its content will be. i would also like to know quickly what we have to do and who will bear the cost. mrs cederschiöld has just pointed out that who is actually paying the bill, the citizens, industry or those who ordered the matter, namely the member states which took the initiative? we shall then deal with further questions in the future.
vice-president of thecommission. mr president, the commission shares the overall concern that member states are aiming to address with the envisaged framework decision on data retention, which is to guarantee the capability of law enforcement authorities to access certain data related to electronic communication to underpin their efforts to fight crime, including terrorism and organised crime. from a legal point of view, the initiative of france, ireland, sweden and the united kingdom on data retention currently under discussion was tabled under title 6 of the treaty on european union. however, the commission is of the opinion that the provisions of the draft instrument that deal with the harmonisation of obligations on electronic communication providers to retain data related to the provision of electronic communication services fall under the european community treaty, notably in view of the existing provisions of community law on the subject. as a consequence, the commission will present an alternative proposal on data retention based on article 95 of the european community treaty by early spring 2005. personally, i hope that the four member states in question will withdraw their proposal. the commission is fully aware of the possible cost implications of data retention obligations on the providers of electronic communication services. an impact assessment will be carried out to determine to what extent the creation of obligations to retain data will have economic implications. regarding a third pillar general data protection instrument, the commission intends to issue the first comprehensive proposal in the second half of 2005; in october or november. to that end, the commission has started consultations with experts representing the relevant ministries and data protection control authorities of the member states and the schengen states. as regards the transfer of passenger data to the united states joint review, a number of questions concerning the transfer of passenger data – the pnr issue – are related to the implementation of undertakings by the us customs and border protection agency. those undertakings provide for a joint review on their implementation to be conducted by the us authorities and the commission, the latter assisted by representatives of european law enforcement authorities and data protection supervisors. this joint review will take place in the first half of this year, i.e. during the first year of operation of the agreement and associated undertakings, which entered into force on 28 may 2004. the review aims to provide a clear picture of the way the undertakings function. it is my intention to inform this parliament of the outcome of this joint review and any important developments in this file. as i have already mentioned, national data protection authorities will be part of the commission-led team conducting the joint review. this should allow the article 29 working party to participate to assess fully the implementation of the undertaking. i am pleased to tell you that, in spite of differences of opinion on the us pnr package, there is excellent cooperation on the implementation of this package between the article 29 working party and the commission. as regards passenger information, as an example of that excellent cooperation between the article 29 working party and the commission, the working party has issued a passenger information notice, which airlines and travel agents use in order to inform airline passengers of the fact that personal data are transferred to the us customs and border protection agency for the purpose of preventing and combating terrorism and other serious crimes. as regards data transfers to third countries, according to information we received from the united states, no passenger data have been transferred so far to third countries. no doubt this issue will be looked into during the joint review exercise that will take place very soon. as regards ‘secure flight’ and capps ii, you will be aware that the us transportation security administration has dropped its controversial computer-assisted passenger pre-screening system – also known as capps ii – in favour of a new programme called ‘secure flight’. that programme will use passenger data for pre-screening passengers on us domestic flights against a terrorist watch list, with the aim of helping to identify potential terrorists. unlike capps ii, ‘secure flight’, for the time being, is limited to us domestic flights, which make it much less problematic than capps ii from a new data protection point of view. ‘secure flight’ is only in its testing phase. that is why, for the moment, no negotiations are planned. this is an issue to be watched very carefully. as regards the eu’s global plan for pnr policy, the commission issued a communication in december 2003 on the eu’s global approach on passenger data, advocating a comprehensive and balanced approach. the commission indicated in the communication that it will pursue its task with other third countries requesting passengers’ data. the commission has entered into talks with canada and australia. concerning canada, we will soon seek parliament’s opinion on a draft commission document and an accompanying international agreement. talks with australia are also well advanced. in both cases the article 29 working party has issued a positive opinion. as you can see, the commission’s strategy as outlined in the communication of december 2003 is being put into practice. finally, as regards the international civil aviation organization, that organisation established the passenger name record access study group in june 2004, following an initiative by several states within that organisation. they called for the development of a harmonised set of principles under the auspices of the icao. guidelines are currently being prepared. the european commission and several eu member states are participating actively in the work of the study group. i will keep you well informed about further developments in that programme.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am grateful to you for having already announced an initiative by the commission. i am concerned about some other questions on the subject of data retention in telecommunications networks, which i hope will be answered in your proposal. the first is cost. for smaller telecommunications companies in particular, long-term storage represents a major financial burden. the proposal from the council and the four countries does not contain any compensation scheme. who's gonna pay for this? what is the total benefit in relation to the cost? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the data are not stored for a long period of time. data protection experts, and even law enforcement agencies such as the federal criminal police office in germany, cast doubt on the necessity of the measure proposed in the council decision. the bundestag has even expressed its opposition to the minimum retention period for traffic data and calls on the federal government not to support the proposal. how can we achieve greater security if there are loopholes for terrorists and organised crime which the proposal does not even address? what about internet cafes, flatlines, public phone booths, calling from overseas phone providers? who's going to be able to track and store all this? data protection is another very, very important issue, the sharing of data with third parties. one thing is clear: we need more effective security. no one is against the fight against international terrorism or organised crime. but we don't need any more superfluous surveillance. i hope you will answer all these questions as well. one thing is also clear, and we stand by it: control is good, trust in control is better. but the proposal of these four countries will not achieve that in this form.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the members who have spoken. the first is that the commission intends to reconcile two great european values, namely the right of citizens to security and the right of citizens to the protection of their freedoms and fundamental rights. i do not think that these two fundamental rights are in conflict. we in the commission will work to show that there are possible proposals for greater security and greater freedom, that is, more protection of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data. i have mentioned an initiative on data protection under the third pillar. the commission will of course rely on article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. there are principles which i can briefly put to the house: the principle that the data processed must be used transparently and only for specific purposes, the principle that the consent of the data subject is required, the principle that the legal basis must be established in advance by law, and that it cannot be uncertain, and finally the principle that control by an independent authority is required. these are guidelines which will lead the commission to present a proposal under the third pillar, indicating a new generation of guarantees, before the end of this year. more guarantees are needed, taking account of the times and the evolution of technology. as regards the initiative of the four member states on the first pillar, i have stated our intention to make an alternative proposal, as i am convinced that the legal basis on which these states have proceeded is not correct. i have therefore also added that i will try to persuade them to withdraw their proposal. as regards the question of biometric elements in travel documents, first of all passports, i believe that rules are needed to encrypt the most sensitive data, such as fingerprints. this principle is reflected in the actions and initiatives which the commission is taking. finally, as far as the subject of the joint review is concerned, i am not in a position to anticipate the results, simply because the joint review has not yet been completed. i myself have not received any communication on the outcome of the inquiry, but i can confirm that i will inform this house of the outcome as soon as possible, i believe within a few weeks, not more than a month and a half. the last theme is the push system. we are working to persuade as many third countries as possible to adopt this system, which i believe is the best. you probably know that during the negotiations canada agreed to start with the push system and i have a certain hope that the united states, through persuasion, will also understand that this is the best system.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in april.
the next item is the report (a6-0049/2005) by mrs margrete auken, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the financing of natura 2000.
i saw you too late earlier, ma'am. commissioner, you are on the list of speakers. then you can answer mrs brepoels' question at once.
mrs ries, thank you very much for that information, it's been noted. we will ensure that the french version is also complete.
i was also impressed by commissioner frattini as an expert on natura 2000. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr daul, mr fruteau and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for all the work they have done. the drafting of the resolution and the hearing on 30 november last year make valuable contributions to our thorough preparations for this important reform of the common organisation of the markets in sugar. allow me to make a few introductory remarks before responding to your questions. the need for reform of the sugar sector is inevitable. based on the consultations i have had with stakeholders in recent months, it is my clear impression that this view is widely shared. the question is ‘how far’ and ‘how fast’ we should move. i sincerely believe that we need an ambitious reform. i should now like to make a few comments on the major issues you raised in your resolution. with regard to price and quota cuts, i am convinced that there is a future for sugar production within the european union, but that it must be based on competitiveness. we therefore need to accept that sugar production should be concentrated in the areas where it has a sustainable long-term perspective. the price cuts proposed in the communication will keep us well below current world market prices. i am therefore convinced that the proposed 33% price cut and the 2.8 million quota cut are a necessary minimum to achieve an effective reform, balance the market and respect our international obligations. the less thorough we are now, the more likely it is that we will have to reform again in the near future, with ensuing uncertainty for the sector. it is clear that the reform will force farmers and producers to take important, and sometimes difficult, decisions about their future in the sector. we have to offer them a clear outlook. i therefore consider predictability to be a key issue. i have taken good note that this is a concern shared by parliament. i therefore do not intend to include the idea of a mid-term review in two or three years in the legislative proposal. instead, a long-term perspective will be offered. farmers will receive compensation equal to 60% percent of the reduction in the institutional price, through the single farm payment scheme. this will offset the loss in revenue. past experience shows that income loss at farm level does not equal the price cut. that is especially true for sugar, where the farmers will no longer carry the cost of the production levy. in any case, the reform needs to be budget-neutral, which limits the degree of compensation. if we go beyond 60% then other sectors will have to pay, through a reduction in their direct payment. with regard to the quota transfer between member states, the communication introduces this as one of the key elements in driving the necessary restructuring within the sugar industry. quota transfers could facilitate production moving to regions where the production conditions are best, and at the same time provide regions that are not competitive with an opportunity to give up their quota and invest the proceeds in alternative economically viable activities. your concerns about the quota transfer have not gone unnoticed. if our objectives can be achieved through alternative instruments then that deserves thorough consideration. i have been particularly interested in the ideas put forward in the resolution on making the transfer subject to some degree of control by member states and farmers, and on the setting-up of a special fund. i am currently exploring those ideas. the creation of a specific fund forms a particularly important element of my reflections. let me be very clear on the ‘everything but arms’ – eba – initiative, which is one of the cornerstones of our trade relations with the least-developed countries, the ldcs. it was the result of an unprecedented unilateral concession made by the european union, and a logical step given our commitment to the development of these countries. it would be a wrong signal to roll back our privileges to the ldcs, particularly in a year where we are trying to convince the rest of the developed world to follow our example and increase market access to developing countries. i am therefore against a renegotiation of the eba initiative. furthermore, a system with regulated imports at remunerative prices would lead to a price reduction which is too small and thus inefficient. we should not give incentives for unsustainable investments within the eu or in third world countries. we recognise that the sugar reform will imply certain adjustments of the sugar sector in the acp countries concerned, but we have also clearly indicated that we are prepared to accompany this process. on the basis of an action plan the commission presented on 24 january, a dialogue with the acp countries is currently taking place. it is the commission’s intention to submit the final action plan on accompanying measures in the form of a communication to the european parliament and the council in mid-2005. the last point i want to address is the wto. the final ruling of the wto appellate body is fixed for 28 april 2005. our reform proposal will take due account of its outcome, and with that we will have brought the common market organisation for sugar into line with our existing wto obligations. let me conclude with the timetable. for internal and external reasons i consider it absolutely necessary to reach an agreement on the sugar reform by november at the latest. in fact, the current sugar regime expires on 1 july 2006. the sector has to know sufficiently in advance what the new sugar regime looks like in order to make their decisions for the common marketing year 2006-2007. furthermore, we have a clear interest to indicate to our wto ministerial partners, before the conference in december this year, what the basic elements of our sugar reform are. otherwise we run the risk of the sugar issue spoiling the hong kong meeting in the same way that cotton did the cancún meeting. the uk presidency has scheduled discussions in the council in order to reach final political agreement in the november council. to meet this timeframe i will present the legislative proposal to the european parliament and the council by the summer. i know that i can count on your cooperation to make this timetable possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp-ed group, i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr jean-claude fruteau, and the chairman of the committee on agriculture, mr joseph daul, for their excellent cooperation on the motion for a resolution on the reform of the common organization of the market in sugar. i would also like to thank all the other members who have worked constructively on this resolution. when i travel in my constituency in bavaria, the sugar beet growers ask me why the market organization for sugar, which has been proven to work for decades, should be changed so fundamentally. the disappointment of the farmers and workers concerned with the proposals of the european commission of 14 july 2004 is very great. i then explain to them that a reform of the market organization is necessary so that sugar beet can continue to be grown in europe. we want to see sugar beet growing in the european union, sugar cane growing in the peripheral regions and sugar production in the sugar factories. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the sugar industry is not left behind. the commission's proposals go too far. in many regions of europe, sustainable sugar beet cultivation and, in the peripheral regions, sugar cane production would disappear altogether. the reform would benefit a few large producers, such as brazil, which, unlike the eu, consistently produces with very low environmental and social standards. our environmental organizations would cry out if in europe, as in brazil, whole rivers were pumped dry for irrigation agriculture, if hundreds of thousands of hectares of land were burned and the animals living on these areas had no chance of escaping the fire. such a sugar production cannot be the benchmark for european sugar production. the argument that the european consumers would benefit from a reduction in sugar prices is not one i can understand. for although grain costs less than a third of what it did 40 years ago, the price of bread has increased many times over the same period. the council of agriculture ministers of the european union, at its meeting on 18 november 1997, defined the multifunctional tasks of european agriculture as follows: 'the council believes that european agriculture must be a multifunctional, sustainable and competitive economic sector, spread over the whole of europe. it must be able to maintain the landscape, preserve natural spaces, make a significant contribution to the vitality of the countryside and meet consumer concerns and requirements in terms of food quality and safety, the environment and animal welfare.' if we want such a multifunctional agriculture in europe, we must also give it the appropriate protection. we therefore call for the production of imported sugar to be subject to the same social and environmental standards as the production of sugar in the eu. the commission is urged to comply with the acp states' requests and to consider how the eu can continue to control sugar supply in terms of quantity through a similar scheme under the 'everything but arms' initiative. in the commission's legislative proposal we also expect clear proposals to make impossible the so-called triangular trade via the least developed countries. i would like to conclude by saying that i do not want a world market in which production is not ecologically oriented. i do not want a world market in which people and whole regions are exploited! i would like to ask you to give the motion for a resolution a large majority so that the commission takes account of our demands in the legislative proposal.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. you said that reform was needed. i agree with you. the sugar market regulation has been perverted by the sugar industry itself. it was aimed at consumption plus the privileged access of acp sugar. then there was a development where c sugar was also dumped on the world market and the quantity of sugar coming from the acp countries was re-exported, which also cost the budget another 1.5 billion euros. but you say you want to bring back the 1.8 million tonnes. we have to reduce them by 4 to 5 million tonnes if we include the c sugar. that's the way the world works. so you have to go back in quantity, not in price. we can accept a reduction in price, but if you propose that 33% should be reduced and the least developed countries should not be given a quota - which is not contrary to the rules we have, but only prevents transfer countries from coming into existence - then that 33% is not enough, because even on these conditions the multinationals will use those countries as transfer countries to unload their sugar here in the european union. so you're gonna have to make the next price cut to make this uninteresting. then you'd better say liberalization right away. if you want to maintain a market order here, you have to tackle it where it counts, in terms of quantity and not price. i am determined that this quantity of repatriation, which i call a perversion, for which the sugar industry itself is responsible, should now be rewarded. it is absurd, and the farmers do not care that these 1.3 or 1.5 billion are paid out as premiums - they go to the big army and do not benefit the farms - but it is important that the sugar industry is designed in such a way that where sugar is grown, money is also made. that is not the case with c sugar, and that is why c sugar is no longer allowed to enter the world market. the farmers can do what they want with it, but they cannot sell it on the world market. we have to establish that. the 1.3 billion euros which will not be used for the premium, we must put into a fund for rural economic development and diversification in the ldcs and the acp countries, to enable them to develop their economies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must make the money we are putting into these countries effective, not pay it as compensation, but we must initiate an economic development which aims not only at reducing dependence on sugar but at being able to supply sugar to the european union with the preferences and delivery quotas they have and earn money from it, but also to promote their own subsistence and rural development in the craft and technical fields. that would be a forward-looking strategy, where we develop a development strategy in the sugar market at the same time and think fundamentally about how world trade should take place. we have tendencies towards liberalization in all the groups, as we can see in the amendments, including those in my group, and you, mrs fischer boel, are, perhaps unintentionally, going against these very tendencies by taking the next step in five years and essentially abolishing the sugar market regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their report. i think you have done an excellent job from your point of view and in the interests of the farmers you represent. the unfortunate part of this resolution is that it does not take into account the views of the committee on trade and also the committee on development. i hope that we can change this in the context of the regulation when we discuss and consult it here. we should definitely move on to actually being wto-compliant, to also taking into account the panel decision, and i strongly support the commissioner's proposal. there are certainly changes that need to be made - and many colleagues have indicated this - but the general direction is still the right one. i have tabled amendment no 37. i hope he gets support. this amendment expressly reaffirms our support for the 'everything but arms' initiative and, in this context, the reforms that have been suggested. i should also like to make a brief comment on my colleague, mr robert sturdy, who has interestingly stated that he wishes to abstain or not vote because he is a sugar market producer and also a member of the committee on agriculture. i'm glad to hear it, but i find it a little strange. he's also the coordinator on the trade committee. perhaps he should reconsider his position and, as coordinator in the committee on trade, perhaps take the position of the committee on agriculture less and more. maybe this would help us in the overall evaluation here. in conclusion, may i ask the commissioner again when and how she intends to present the specific proposal for the transfer of quotas to the member states. i have heard you expressing a little doubt and i was not quite sure what your position was on the proposal made in the resolution to no longer deal with it but to have a fund instead. perhaps you could comment on that again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it must be possible, from the many statements made today, to draw up a legislative proposal which will make sustainable sugar production possible here as well as in the so-called third world. but to those who believe that they have to impose the world market price, i would say that no one in the world can produce ecologically and socially fair and reasonable products at these prices. that's completely impossible. i also want to tell you because we always talk about brazil: until a few years ago, the vast majority of people in brazil paid no attention to the plight of plantation workers and the landless. i warn you not to shed crocodile tears here. i accept mr deß, for example, but many others do not. we are dealing here with a shaky level of protectionism. the brazilian government is working to introduce social and environmental standards here. we should support them in this. if the brazilian government implements this and prices develop accordingly, they will still be half as high as those in the european union. i would like to point this out again. but i think we'll find some reasonable solutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a linguistic problem in paragraph 7 of the english version. so i would ask you to replace the word "committed" with the word "contracted" and add the word "acting", so that now the second part of paragraph 7 reads: "even when the forced marriages are contracted by union residents acting outside the union's territory". it's really just about the english version and this language problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to ask my colleague paul rübig something. we had an indirect, informal agreement last night that we would proceed as follows. i apologize for the interruption. we agreed that the ppe and the liberals would not support the deletion of the entire paragraph in the last part and that we would support the motion of the conservatives and the liberals on the other side. i would ask mr paul rübig to say something more on this.
in writing. i would like to draw attention to all the women who are taking their normal place on international women's day 2005. i would like to put their main concern - the provision of the family, the children and also the elderly - in the political interest. we talk a lot about gender mainstreaming. i would like to ask that the mainstreaming of the family be considered in political and social decisions. in future, all policy decisions must be made with regard to the impact on families. in future, government employment support programmes in particular will have to be based on the principle of family mainstreaming. the family must be the guiding principle of work and society, not the other way around. for example, the labour input of women farmers is still not adequately recorded in agricultural statistics. in the main industrial enterprises, women work around 63 hours per week. for agricultural statistics, the budget to be supplied is deducted first, at about 50%. women farmers do their unpaid work in the household, farm and family just like all women in addition to working hours in the profession. however, their use is not recorded in statistics, is still not taken seriously by society and is not recognised as an economic factor. in general, the contributions made by women must be fully included in the calculation of gross national product.
in writing. the protection of our nature can only be achieved through a genuine partnership between nature conservation and agriculture. the commission's proposal for funding must not jeopardize cooperation between agriculture and nature conservation. it is the farmers who are responsible for keeping nature open throughout europe and at the same time producing healthy food. our farmers have clear guidelines. they are based on good practice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the conditions for the granting of aid are met. the financing of natura 2000 must not be entirely at the expense of other agricultural and environmental measures or other rural development programmes. many questions remain open. the precise measures to be taken in the designated areas will be decided at regional level. it is important to have the means to take action. the amount of funding for the management and organisation of natura 2000 sites alone must be kept to a minimum. we must be careful not to create any additional bureaucracy. instead of putting money into management, bureaucracy and administration, we need to fund efficient projects that serve the environment and deliver tangible results.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the situation in tibet remains high on the political and human rights agenda of the european union's relations with china. the eu is concerned about the preservation of the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the tibetan people, and more particularly about the restrictive conditions imposed by the central authorities on the exercise of religious freedom in the tibet autonomous region. recently, some tibetan monks were sentenced, allegedly for possessing portraits of the dalai lama. we heard that some were detained and beaten. we are also still waiting, in spite of continuous requests, for information on the whereabouts of the dalai lama's choice of the eleventh panchen lama, gedhun choekyi nyima. we have seized every opportunity regularly to raise these concerns with our chinese interlocutors. we have done so at the highest political level, for example at the seventh bilateral summit held in the hague on 8 december 2004, as we have done regularly within the framework of the ongoing bilateral dialogue on human rights. during the last session of this dialogue, held in luxembourg on 24/25 february 2005, the issue was again extensively addressed. we have also brought to the attention of the chinese authorities the situation of tibetan individuals, together with individuals from all over china, who have been sentenced for freely expressing their opinion or belief. the case of tenzin deleg rinpoche has become emblematic. we fully share the view that the european parliament expressed in january in a resolution on tibet and we will continue urging the chinese authorities to release this monk at the earliest possible date. we hope that a solution compatible with chinese sovereignty and respect for the tibetan population will be found soon. in our view, to reach this ultimate goal, there is no alternative to a peaceful process based on dialogue. we have called for years, and will continue to call, for such a dialogue. we, therefore, fully support the consultations that have taken place over the past years between beijing and the representatives of the dalai lama. we welcome the fact that the two special envoys of the dalai lama were able to visit china last september for the third time since the resumption of contacts in september 2002. we met - as we often have in the past - kelsang gyaltsen, one of the two dalai lama's special envoys, on his return from china, and we felt encouraged by his positive assessment of the visit. we understand that progress has been made to narrow the gap between the existing respective positions. we hope that those developments will encourage the start of a meaningful and direct dialogue between beijing and the dalai lama, which will lead to the recognition of genuine autonomy for the tibetan region. we firmly believe that only such direct dialogue can be conducive to a lasting solution of the tibetan issue. in our view, the opening of a direct dialogue should not be subject to any precondition. on the other hand, the respective parties should refrain from taking any steps that would compromise the establishment of a climate of confidence, which appears indispensable if a solution is to be reached. in all circumstances, we would condemn violence from any quarter as a solution to the problem of tibet. the commission would certainly be prepared to become more involved in finding a solution if it were the wish of the parties most concerned. we will, no doubt, continue to pay the greatest attention to the situation in tibet and to press for conditions which allow the tibetans to fully exercise their basic political, religious and cultural rights and allow the cultural identity of tibet to be preserved.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not on behalf of the epp-ed group, i would like to thank all those who are supporting us in this debate on a country whose citizens need our solidarity more than ever. i would like to thank you, commissioner kallas. forty-six years ago today, chinese troops in lhasa crushed a peaceful tibetan protest against the violent occupation of their homeland. 87,000 people lost their lives. thousands were arrested. to date, over a million have died from starvation, torture and execution, and more than three quarters of their places of worship and monasteries have been systematically destroyed. march 10th is a day of mourning. it is also a day of resistance against imposed silence, against the violation of human rights, against the suppression of cultural, religious and human identity. tibetan flags are being hoisted around the world today. every year, 2 000 towns and cities in the european union take part in it, more than 650 in my home country of germany alone. the day after tomorrow we will be in berlin with thousands of human rights defenders, including more and more young people and political leaders. we will gather in front of the brandenburg gate to commemorate the sacrifice. the european parliament has taken important decisions which give the tibetans courage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it calls on the council to maintain the embargo on arms trade with china. this appeal was confirmed in our joint resolution on the geneva convention on human rights. the chinese people's congress is meeting in beijing the day after tomorrow with 3,000 delegates. an anti-secession law will be passed to justify a possible military strike against taiwan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have repeatedly pointed this out, commissioner, and called for the unconditional resumption of dialogue between representatives of the dalai lama and the chinese authorities. it is not enough to announce that talks are taking place just before important state visits, which then repeatedly fail to produce any concrete results. in his message on the anniversary of the uprising, his holiness the dalai lama expresses his determination to find a solution which takes into account both chinese interests and enables the tibetan people to live in peace, freedom and dignity. the intergroup on tibet in our parliament will continue to work to ensure that human rights defenders, ngos and colleagues from other national parliaments are heard in the european parliament. there is no better day than 10 march to show our solidarity with the legitimate cause of the tibetan people. let us raise our flag together in cities, towns and parliaments. tashi delek happy flourishes.
the commission has already done so. i am very happy about this debate, because this year marks 23 years since this house adopted the habsburg report on the decolonisation of the baltic states in strasbourg and, as the european parliament, asked the un subcommittee on decolonisation to discuss the question of the baltic states. i was a member of the rapporteur's staff at the time and i still remember the counter-arguments: that the baltic states could never become independent, that this was all a utopia, that the balts had no right to self-determination, etc. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the tibet issue, but we should be concerned about the fact that the tibetan people are not the only ones who are suffering from the problem. tibet is - as has been said here many times - not just a basic human rights issue, it is much more. some people are talking about a minority issue. this is a complete and utter disregard for the facts. in tibet, it is not a minority problem, but a country that has been conquered by colonialism. china is nothing but a colonial power. if the chinese want to continue to live in community with the tibetans, as the dalai lama suggests as a possibility, then they must take the decisive step towards that end and win the confidence of the tibetan people. the only way to win this trust is to recognize and protect its right to self-determination, its own culture and religion, and its human rights. the only way to integrate is to partner. the oppression does not integrate, it disintegrates. that is why it is so impressive that so many former civil rights activists - milan horáček, who is sitting here, václav havel, who was his comrade, many of our polish colleagues - are working so massively for tibet, as a clear sign that freedom in europe and freedom in tibet cannot be separated for a long time and that freedom is indivisible. i therefore thank thomas mann and all the others in our group who have the main responsibility for tibet for having insisted with colleagues in the other groups that we should be holding this urgent hour today. i can only say to the chinese leadership that we will not rest in the european parliament until this symbol of a free tibet which we have set up here today can really shine in all freedom and the tibetans can follow their own democratic path. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when people are persecuted and imprisoned for having a different opinion, democracy is absent. then there is arbitrariness, fear and duplicity. many in this room know what it was like when this was the case in our states. we should not be afraid to speak of dictatorship at this point, because that is precisely what is taking hold in belarus at the moment. this is precisely the situation in which political prisoners such as mikhail marinitsch, valery lewonewski, alexander vasilyev, and, as we are seeing now, jauhien afnagel and professor yuri bandashewski, are personally experiencing the limitation of their freedom. we must show this, and i call on the council and the commission, which are not here, to summon the belarusian ambassadors and send them a political message calling for the immediate release of these political prisoners and making it clear that we will not allow any further detention on the basis of freedom of expression. in the same breath, i would like to call on the commission and the council to take action on the disappeared and to continue the work begun by the council of europe. they must launch an international inquiry so that the people of belarus can finally hope that the international community will no longer remain silent in the face of injustice, in the face of massive human rights violations in belarus.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the middle ages, lithuanians, poles and belarusians formed a tripartite federation, a central european kingdom. today we have the poles and the lithuanians, and the belarusians pretend that their country is on the moon. i received an e-mail the other day from a citizen who strongly protested that we were neglecting this country. that's not true! we in the european parliament are very much committed to human rights in belarus. we have given the sakharov prize to belarusians, we have debates here regularly, we are really involved. but the public must be impressed by the absolute passivity of the council and above all of our national foreign policy, which - apart from a few laudable exceptions - is completely inadequate in its attention to this subject. so it's important that we say clearly: the third and fourth paragraphs of this resolution must be dealt with swiftly, namely the investigation of the cases of disappeared persons and the release of political prisoners. i would ask the other groups to support our amendment. we could do something for young people from belarus here. we agree that democracy and the rule of law must be promoted in this country and that the nation states should finally wake up from their deep sleep.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not in the difficult period of the post-dictatorship rebuilding and the khmer rouge's fury, it was the speaker of the cambodian parliament, son san, who became the engine of freedom and democracy. he has been here in strasbourg many times and has been an impressive partner of the european parliament. the situation is all the worse now that an attempt is being made to silence this cambodian parliament with its great democratic tradition by means of intimidation and terrorism, emanating from the prime minister. i want to make it very clear that the visit of sam rainsy 14 days ago was in the tradition of the visits of the freedom fighter son san and that sam rainsy deserves our full support, because without a functioning parliament all the efforts of the un and the international community in cambodia will have been in vain. a lot of money and a lot of international efforts have been invested in cambodia, but we find that we are now again facing a big pile of rubble if we fail to stop the authoritarian course of the government and strengthen the democratic forces and parliamentarism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that there is a joint resolution here today that brings the human rights situation in saudi arabia into focus. women in particular are denied basic rights in the arabian peninsula, similar to those in certain swiss cantons. in the 1970s, women were still denied the right to vote in saudi arabia's first local elections. i was able to witness this firsthand as vice-president of the gulf delegation when we visited riyadh in early february for the local elections. but what double standards do the heads of state and government of the member states have? on the one hand, there is occasional tacit criticism of the human rights situation in saudi arabia. on the other hand, business is booming, especially the arms business. unfortunately, germany is once again at the forefront of this. the statements made by german chancellor gerhard schröder during his visit to saudi arabia speak volumes. he said saudi arabia is a country with enormous opportunities and enormous financial resources. it is not surprising that the schröder visit has seen a lot of arms deals, deals that will certainly not make the region more peaceful and will not improve the human rights situation. i am in favour of a general halt to arms exports to the member states of the european union, not only to china but also to saudi arabia. let's stop the double standards. no more arms exports! the other point i want to raise is the situation of non-saudi workers in saudi arabia. eu diplomats said the situation of workers there made the term 'slavery' come to mind. the situation of non-saudi workers in saudi arabia is a matter which we really need to discuss in depth here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to draw attention to the fact that some of the language versions do not include the ppe-de as a signatory to the resolution. but we have signed it, of course, and we support it fully.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so we have the fact that for several years genetically modified maize has been brought into europe by the sangenta company. it is not possible to determine whether this was accidental or intentional. the american authorities, who were aware of this earlier than they informed us, have been delaying it, and the commission has only now been informed. i would like the commission to tell us how far we can expect to have reasonable control mechanisms in future for such procedures. we should be told.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european union is in the process of establishing a common security and defence policy. this necessarily includes a common regulation on arms exports. i would therefore like to point out that venezuela is in the process of rearmament, which is particularly critical in view of the border conflicts there. for example, venezuela bought 100,000 kalashnikov rifles from russia, and that with a force of only 35,000 soldiers, so you have to ask yourself what they are for. in addition, venezuela has signed a contract with a member state of the european union for the purchase of four corvettes, four patrol vessels, ten transport aircraft and two maritime surveillance aircraft. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i would ask you to examine to what extent these actions violate the directive of the european union's code of conduct on arms exports.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr cavada has just rightly mentioned the involvement of parliament, and i think that we should perhaps reconsider our approach in this sensitive area. i would like to refer in this context, particularly in the area of freedom, security and justice, to the proposed proposal on data retention. the committee on civil liberties and i, as rapporteur, had doubts about the legal basis. the legal affairs committee has shared the doubts, the commission has shared the doubts and the council's legal service has shared the doubts. my question is simply: can we assume that the council will also join in the doubts and that parliament will be involved in deciding on this issue, or can we assume that the member states will stick to their proposal in the full knowledge that they are going to turn against three institutions . i'd be very interested in that.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have just heard a very concrete example in the debate, namely the framework directive on data retention. the example is important because it allows two different issues to be identified: firstly, the question of how the institutions deal with each other. it is not worthwhile to formulate broad principles on the questions of law, freedom and the protection of rights, but not to apply them when it comes to the actual dealings between the institutions. the question which mr alvaro has just put remains. it should be answered by the council today. if there are legitimate concerns in parliament and in the commission about whether and to what extent parliament should be involved, then the council must also come forward today with a final decision so that we can move forward. for months now, there has been a feeling that parliament is being held up on this issue. we are consulting, we are consulting, but it is impossible to reach a final decision on a specific matter. parliament is not involved. no final decision is reached. the second question: to date no answer has been given to what the honourable member has just said, namely whether there is a factual need for such an intervention in the data situation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to give its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we expect a precise answer to the question of what role parliament will play and where we can expect it to play in the future. thirdly, there is the question of the purpose of this measure.
president of the council. mr president, i do not share the presentation that some of you have tried to make by giving parliament the fine role of defender of freedom and the ministers in the council of ministers for justice and home affairs the role of champions of security. i can tell you that in all the decisions we take, we try to maintain the balance between the three components of the area of freedom, security and justice. we have said many times that we want these three aspects to be developed in parallel. it is something that we care about and i therefore challenge the claim that parliament should hold us back in our ambition to create more security because it would be at the expense of freedom. that is simply not true, and i will give you several examples of that. the day a murderer or a rapist can be prosecuted because we find in dna databases of genetic fingerprints the evidence to convict them in a court of law, the citizens will find it a good thing, and so will you. today, this person can travel to another member state of the european union and, since there is no interconnection of dna databases, he remains unpunished. and that is when parliament asks the council why we have done nothing in this area. the same applies to the interconnection of criminal records. when a person who has committed sexual offences against children moves to another member state and the member state is not informed of the person's history, it is right to ask why we did not do anything. we are currently looking at how we can better interconnect the data we have in the different criminal records. after 11 september 2001, we were also rightly asked why we had not moved forward on the european arrest warrant, although this text had been on the council's table for some time. we have done so since then, but in the absence of dramatic events we are somewhat forgetting, and i think you are too, that in order to be active in the field of crime and terrorism prevention we must take a number of measures, while obviously maintaining the balance between freedom, security and justice. it is a concern we share, so let us forget the fallacious notion that there are defenders of freedom in this parliament and those in the council who want to reduce our fundamental freedoms. secondly, it concerns the retention of data. what i have just said about principles also applies to data retention. i am, however, extremely surprised, if not shocked, by some of the statements made here, in which data retention and torture chambers are equated. has the european parliament forgotten that three years ago, i believe, we adopted a directive on data processing, which allows member states, in the framework of their national legislation, to retain telecommunications data for certain specific purposes and for limited periods of time? this directive was adopted by codecision. so today, what we're doing is not storing the wiretaps, the content of the phone conversations. we are simply trying to fight crime better by putting in a text, which we are discussing and which will perhaps be amended, that what we can do at national level we can, in some cases, also do at european level. i ask that we think 'more european' when it comes to fighting crime. of course, there will need to be clear conditions and objectives regarding which data are retained, for how long and how to access them. it is nothing more and nothing less than what we are already doing in many of our member states. many drug cases, many terrorism cases in our member states have been solved by the retention of data. so let us be realistic about the possibilities that this opens up. of course, if the legal basis - and we will look at it - is such that we are partly in the first pillar, the council has no problem in discussing it with parliament and i shall be happy to come back to the committee on civil liberties and to discuss it in detail. i believe and remain convinced that it is a useful instrument in the fight against crime and i hope that we will find the appropriate mechanism. that is why, as i said, we must of course discuss the legal basis, and i have no problem with that. those who have said otherwise earlier are wrong. yes, i want to discuss the legal basis, but i said, "let's not waste too much time discussing it out of sight, while criminals make a lot of fun of the legal basis and take advantage of the lack of interconnections and the lack of a number of clearly regulated mechanisms". the council will therefore analyse the commission's legal opinion and the new commission proposal if there is one. in fact, the four member states which have put forward the proposal we are discussing in the council want nothing more than to take their national texts and ask for a european solution, which the council presidency considers to be quite normal. the third point is the external dimension. yes, it is true that i had not mentioned the external dimension of immigration but i thought i had already said too much and above all, that i should report here on the progress in the area of "justice" last year. i could have told you a lot about our design and what we are working on this year. i believe that the external dimension of jha policy is extremely important both in the immigration and the fight against crime areas. i believe it is essential that in the mediterranean situation, in the situation in the balkans, we take account of the external dimensions of jha policy because it has an immediate effect on the internal politics of our member states and so i am once again advocating a truly common policy on asylum and immigration. i said earlier, with regret, that the progress made in 2004 is only a minimum, but it has the merit of being there. we need the constitutional treaty to develop a genuine common policy on asylum and immigration, and the external dimension will of course have to be given a prominent place. i often say that between external security and internal security, there is no longer a border, all the elements interact, it is the case for crime and it is the case for immigration. these are two different aspects and they are dealt with in the same council. finally, as regards transparency and consultation of parliament, i am surprised to see that some of you are advocating an early entry into force of the treaty. i believe that the council listens to parliament on matters on which the treaty provides that it must listen to parliament; it decides with parliament on the matters currently covered by the treaty. if a new treaty comes into force tomorrow, we will apply its rules. i welcome these new rules, and i think i have been clear on this point. at present parliament is fully informed of the council's work. contrary to what some of you may think, we are not using a salami tactic with parliament. we inform parliament of all decisions we take and of the current state of the files. this was also the case for the findings on biometrics in visas and residence permits and for the findings on the vis. we're going to keep doing it. there is also no salami tactic for our objectives, because they are clearly established. they will be even clearer once we have the action plan for the transposition of the hague programme. that is why we want this programme. we have asked the commission to work quickly because i would like to adopt the action plan which results from the hague programme under the luxembourg presidency in june. we will then know exactly where we are going, even if we have to adapt this action plan when the time comes, when the constitutional treaty comes into force. lastly, i forgot to mention racism earlier, in reply to the question raised by mrs roure, i think. the luxembourg presidency is very keen on this text. i have done everything i could to get it out of the drawers and back on the council agenda. but the same applies to the first points i mentioned: we must strike a balance between interests which are sometimes conflicting. when i say that we must have common values in europe and that racism must be condemned, some people say that we are restricting freedom of expression too much. we are not in the same position as in the areas i have just mentioned, but we must still find a balance. i have not put this on the agenda of this week's jha council because a number of member states, particularly the new member states, have expressed the wish to be able to analyse in detail the text which the old member states had already examined before enlargement. however, i can inform parliament that i have the firm intention of presenting this text to the june council because i hope - and there can always be wishes and hopes - that it will be adopted under the luxembourg presidency. of course, we must agree to this text by 25 votes, and if substantial changes are made, it is clear that the european parliament will be consulted again if necessary, but i would like to make some progress on this text which is very dear to me.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, i have little to add, only three points. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the three essential elements of european action in the three great areas of freedom and therefore of promotion, not only of protection of freedoms, justice and security, there is no doubt that these three great areas must grow together. to be even more explicit, not only can there be no adequate security without a guarantee of the fundamental rights of the individual, but also without a real growth of the european judicial area; i am not in favour of the idea of a european court of justice, but i am in favour of the idea of a european court of justice, and i am in favour of the idea of a european court of justice, which is a european court of justice. it is clear that the commission must take this into account. there is no doubt that we will always work to ensure that these three great spaces grow in a balanced and parallel way. in particular, on fundamental rights, we were asked what the group of commissioners that president barroso had announced here in this parliament is doing. the working party was, of course, set up last december. it has met many times, with president barroso chairing it directly and me acting as vice-chairman of the group, coordinating with other colleagues the necessary initiatives. we have defined a road map, a set of actions and principles that we will tackle; we're already dealing with some of them. i have mentioned earlier the issue of child protection, and this will be one of the issues on which we have concentrated in the first few weeks and will continue to do so. we have many others, and of course when this parliament wants to hear directly from me in the commission about the developments in the work of the commissioners' group, i am prepared to do so. we have spoken of racism, anti-semitism, as issues that must remain on europe's agenda. i would add my own wish to that of the president-in-office of the council, saying that europe cannot give the impression of being so weak that it cannot reach an agreement, however difficult, by june on a subject which has been the subject of the attention of the council of ministers for the interior and justice for three years. it is clear that my wish is also an invitation to finally reach agreement on this text and to have a common framework that respects subsidiarity, but that does not let the citizens of europe say that after three years of discussions we have not been able to assert as it deserves the fundamental principle that racism must not have entered europe. the commissioner's group has dealt with this and will continue to do so. much has been said about the protection of personal data, but nobody is going to - and the commission is obviously not thinking about that - to create a big european ear that listens to everything, that records everything. we are thinking of a balanced initiative, which first of all takes account of the specific needs of investigating certain serious transnational crimes, terrorism for all, but also human trafficking, paedophilia, and makes itself available to specifically designated authorities for an appropriate period, so nothing to do with an eternal database which none of us considers compatible with the european charter of fundamental rights. the commission will present its proposal, but we have doubts about the legal basis which the council has put forward. i have said it many times and i will say it again, within a few weeks our proposal will be ready for the council to consider. we shall take account of parliament's assessments on this subject, just as we have taken account of the assessments - we must never forget this - of those personal data protection authorities, who, meeting in a body of undoubtedly technical and technical level, have often given critical opinions on the commission's proposals. we certainly take these opinions into account and will take them into account, but once, for example, that opinion on that proposal is positive, we have a strong argument in favour, in the sense that the proposal respects the fundamental right to data protection. finally, a word on asylum and european asylum policy. here again, our approach must be, and will continue to be, balanced: minimum procedural rights are essential, they are a first step. we have the ambition to arrive tomorrow, and i hope soon, at a european system for recognising or withdrawing refugee status without any differential treatment, a high quality standard, not a common rule to the bottom, as some have said. we do not think that european policy can again be unbalanced in the sense of looking only at the opposition and not at the reception and integration, but both aspects are preserved, there is no adequate policy of prevention, of opposition, if we are not ready to integrate those who come legally to europe. we are certainly not going to help people who want to work honestly unless we show that we are clear, firm and strict with those who are trading in human beings. these two aspects are linked and will be the guiding principle of european policy as far as the commission is concerned.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to welcome parliament’s support for this important proposal. our proposal has two main elements. the first aims to set common minimal standards as regards certain procedural rights applying to criminal proceedings throughout the european union. the intention is to promote compliance as a consistent standard, rather than to duplicate the echr. the areas where common minimal standards are proposed at this first stage are: firstly, access to legal advice both before and during trial; secondly, access to interpretation and translation free of charge; thirdly, ensuring that appropriate attention is given to persons who are not capable of understanding or following the proceedings; and fifthly, the right for foreign suspects to communicate with consular authorities, and a letter of rights notifying the suspected person of their rights in writing. a decision was taken to draw up proposals relating to these five rights initially, because they are of particular importance in the context of mutual recognition. it is not the intention to suggest that these five rights are more important than others, simply that they are of more immediate relevance to mutual recognition. in seeking to enhance fair trial rights generally, this framework decision will have the effect of ensuring a reasonable level of protection to foreign suspects and defendants. finally, mutual recognition can only operate effectively in a spirit of confidence. this proposal for a framework decision will strengthen the mutual trust that member states have in each other’s criminal justice systems. it is important not only to have trust in the integrity of one’s partner’s rules, but also to trust that these rules are correctly applied. that is why a monitoring mechanism is proposed.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, since many good things have already been said, it is not necessary for me to report on everything. the alde group welcomes mrs buitenweg’s report on the proposal for a council framework decision on criminal judicial cooperation. procedural safeguards are an indispensable supplement in an area where cooperation between member states’ judicial and law enforcement agencies is ever closer. we believe that while the mutual recognition of decisions necessitates trust between member states, it is equally important that suspects affected enjoy equivalent rights. i must admit that as a new member of this parliament it was quite frightening to hear that in the european union this was not the case in the past. but it is now satisfactorily regulated that suspects have the same rights throughout europe; so i am very happy that this framework decision is now on the table. the alde group had certain ideas in relation to this proposal. first of all we proposed establishing a register of specialised qualified interpreters and an interpretation hotline. we wanted to guarantee the rights of disabled people and psychological assistance. we wanted the letter of rights to be made accessible to the disabled, the inclusion of victims’ rights and the setting-up of an independent body of experienced, independent and properly remunerated lawyers. we are very happy that the rapporteur has taken most of these ideas on board. this is a very good outcome and that is why we support the rapporteur’s original line. we aim to give equal rights to suspects regardless of the type of suspicion they are under. we aim for equal protection and for harmonisation. finally, i am very satisfied that the majority of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs supported our amendments, which were aimed at giving equal rights to the disabled and clarified the obligations as regards lawyers and interpreters. mrs buitenweg, the alde group will support you and your report.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what happens to people who are accused of a crime in another eu country rather than in their own country? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the legal system is different from back home. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. i have seen this happen in a particularly dramatic way a few years ago in genoa, when there was a large demonstration against the g8 summit. countless young people were beaten up by the police in an incredibly brutal way, and soon afterwards they found themselves helpless and sometimes deprived of their rights for days in italian prisons. the right to a fair trial, enshrined in article 6 of the echr, proved to be too blunt a sword at the time. it is too late for the union to act here. the scenario of that time must not be repeated anywhere! the european arrest warrant must finally be countered by clearly defined rights of the accused. the eu must set common minimum standards for criminal procedural rights. i too join in the thanks to the rapporteur and i declare on behalf of our group that we support her report. the report contains many important amendments which are essential to safeguarding the rights of accused persons. the defendant must, of course, be informed of his rights in a language which he understands, and of course in writing. the right to legal assistance must be guaranteed in the same way as the right to interpretation. the report also makes a number of important recommendations, such as the requirement that all documents be translated or that there be an obligation to inform the partner. i hope that the report will find a majority in this house tomorrow. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the framework decision on certain procedural rights in criminal proceedings within the european union, which is being discussed today, is, in the council's view, to be limited to cases covered by the european arrest warrant. this was and is the view of the epp-ed group. as the rapporteur was still of the opinion that the framework decision should also apply to cases in the field of terrorism, unlike the council proposal, until the vote in the committee responsible, my group in the committee voted against the report. mrs buitenweg has made a great effort in the past few weeks to put forward a compromise proposal which can be supported by all the groups. i welcome this and thank the rapporteur for her efforts. the epp-ed group therefore has the following to say: the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. in other words, the proposed provisions are not intended to affect specific measures in force in national legislation in the context of combating certain serious and complex forms of crime, in particular terrorism. this will be accompanied by the addition that the measures referred to must be in conformity with the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the compromise proposal fully meets your request.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the aim of all of us is to make the european police college an institution of the european union. if we are to take the fight against crime in europe seriously and if we are to tackle organised crossborder crime in particular, then we also need a training facility for our police services and our law enforcement agencies. if the police academy is a european institution, it must operate in accordance with the administrative and budgetary rules of the european union. the committee on budgets, in its opinion to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, confined itself to these budgetary rules. firstly, the allocation of eur 4.5 million per year for the period after 2007 depends on the new financial framework still to be decided. secondly, we believe that the member state in which the academy has its seat must also contribute financially to that seat. thirdly, the establishment plan and the draft budget can only be adopted by the administrative council on a provisional basis, at least until parliament has adopted the general budget for the coming year in december. fourthly, if there are justified exceptions to the general principles of the financial regulation, the budgetary authority - that is, the european parliament and the council - must be informed. in the usual fruitful cooperation, the committee - and above all the rapporteur - incorporated these amendments in its report. i thank you very much for that.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues - not as a mere expression of courtesy but out of genuine gratitude - in particular mr ioannis damis, mr achim haug and the shadow rapporteurs who have been with me for some time now, in the preparation of parliament's opinion at first reading and now also in the follow-up to the council's common position at second reading. i would also like to thank the commission, even though we have sometimes been quite far apart on certain points, and the council, although i am not particularly satisfied with the final result so far - the different degrees of convergence. i shall look at this in more detail later. but the attempt on the part of the presidency of the council was always there. what should we keep in mind? we have - i will call it that for the sake of simplicity, because the official names are very confusing - the rest and driving time regulation and the control directive. what's the point of them? what do we need them for? we live in an era in which a considerable part of the transport of goods - whether one regrets it or not, it is a fact - is carried out by road. we are living in a time when social legislation is actually in a permanent downward trend, and we are also living in a time when the commission itself has made some definite decisions. we have set ourselves a target: we want to halve the number of road deaths by the year 2010, which means we want to put road safety as a strong topic in the forefront. this means that these two directives must be designed to strike a balance between road safety, social legislation and equal competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. one has its main focus there and the other has its main focus there. but the votes in committee have clearly shown that the rest and driving time regulation - it was adopted by a two-thirds majority, the control directive by almost four-fifths - still had a broad consensus amongst the transport politicians of this parliament. of course, during all the parliamentary debates, the so-called extraparliamentary debates were also stimulating, sometimes very tiring, very divergent, and it is clear that there must inevitably be differences of opinion between the european trade union confederation and the association of freight forwarders. i believe that the demands and wishes on many points could ultimately be reduced to a common goal. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. let me start with the rest and driving regulations. what has been achieved that is positive? the proposal for a flexible week was rejected. we have reintroduced the calendar week. that is consensus. we are of course also in agreement that this regulation should then be transferred to the atr. however, we disagree on how we want to do this, how much pressure we have to put on it, because parliament clearly says - and i think it is absolutely necessary - that this regulation must form the basis and that everyone who drives on the roads of the european union, no matter from which country he comes, has to comply with this regulation, and that in the short term. this is for security and above all for fair competition. we have already reached agreement on this at first reading and again now, and i hope, of course, that this will be documented by the vote the day after tomorrow. we have set a driving time which is still considerable, namely 90 hours in two weeks, but not more than 56 hours per week. we have thus ensured the flexibility that road transport also needs. but we also made sure that, over a two-week period, it could be considered an acceptable and safe size. we have introduced definitions in parliament in relation to the commission proposal and also to the council which the council and the commission did not themselves draw up. so if we have a rest and driving time regulation, then we must at least say what driving time is. in this respect, parliament has made a great effort to remedy deficiencies which could have been remedied by the legislator. i understand that there may be differences of opinion on the definition. parliament has clearly agreed. if someone does not like the proposed definitions and does not like them, then he has the opportunity to propose other definitions. this is the more correct parliamentary approach than simply rejecting the proposal and not wanting to have any at all. we have a majority in parliament on the question of rest periods. we want 12 hours. we would like to say this to the drivers themselves. if you talk to the motorists' union, they confirm that there is some flexibility in the observance, the staggering and the breakdown of these rest periods. that's also doable. i think there was a good proposal from the council on the break times. it was amended in committee; i think the result is also a viable option. it is clear that it is possible to evaluate different points differently and still arrive at a commonly agreed and reasonable conclusion. we still have some problems that will not be so easy to solve. i would like to make that very clear. the european parliament has gratefully, rightly and with a very strong majority of support included vehicles under 3.5 tonnes in the scope of this directive. we think that is right, because this directive is not a directive limited to certain weight categories of vehicles, as the council and the commission have tried to explain to us in part, but it is aimed at a specific objective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted. we have put forward a compromise proposal which states that we will grant a 60 km radius exemption, which means that you can move within that radius without the introduction of the digital tachograph in these vehicles. the problem of working time seems to me to be a major one, if i have understood it correctly in the debates with the council. in the case of professional drivers, in particular, it is very common that they not only drive their vehicles on the road, but also load and unload them, and when they come to their companies they also have to do freight forwarding work, and therefore: whoever puts road safety and social protection at the top has to accept that these things are also controlled. the council had originally included these leftovers, as i like to call them, in the regulation on rest periods and driving times. i think that the council is very interested in seeing this brought to an end. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the council has unfortunately rejected almost everything parliament proposed in the first reading on the control directive. it just doesn't make sense. we do not need a regulation on rest periods and driving hours if we do not want to have the instruments to control them. there must be a distinction between road checks and factory checks, because the different stages require different controls. but in the case of company controls, you can also control the observance of working hours. you can check the medical records. you can check the vacation papers. you can look at what the motorists did during that time. all this is still meaningless if there is no common definition of serious infringements. a common definition of serious infringements is the basis for analysing the sanctions afterwards, so that we can eventually have uniform, harmonised sanctions within the european union, because it is not possible for something to be allowed in one country that is prohibited in another. i would therefore ask the council - which is not here but may read it later - to take action. we want this regulation and we want this directive. but there can be no regulation or directive at any price. parliament will not allow this either. i would like to see this message clearly conveyed to the council. if there is the political will, we will reach an agreement. if the political will is not there, it is not the parliament that is lacking - it is the council.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. he has guided us through the negotiations in a very constructive manner. the commissioner, it is actually quite simple: in road traffic, sleepy drivers are good for road safety, and overtired drivers are a safety hazard. or the simple logic is that overwork kills. for drivers, road safety and competitiveness, we therefore need reasonable driving and rest periods, which can also be controlled, otherwise the whole thing makes no sense! that is why we agree that we need 12 hours of rest a day, 9 of them at a time. for roadblocks, we need a check-in facility up to 28 days old. you can't drive more than 56 hours a week, and you're out in two weeks at 90 hours. we also need a realistic date for the digital tachograph. the regulation should include a new category, namely small vans of up to 3.5 tonnes. and, commissioner, this is not about pizza being taken out of the car, because a pizza that is transported over 60 kilometres - as the committee on transport has proposed - is cold, you cannot eat it! so, it's not about pizza drivers, it's about these minivan drivers who are allowed to do anything these days. they are allowed to drive at extremely high speeds, seven days a week, 24 hours a day, there are no sunday and night driving bans, there are no checks and there are consequences! these consequences are more and more accidents. i can only give the german figures: the number of accidents involving personal injuries has increased by 103% between 1991 and 2001 for small haulers. in 2001, 206 road users were killed in accidents caused by drivers of small goods vehicles in germany (an increase of 44% compared with 1991), 2 548 road users were seriously injured (an increase of 66%) and 13 939 were slightly injured. according to figures from the highway patrol, fatigue seems to be one of the most common causes of accidents, with a relatively high number of accidents involving small vans occurring in the evening or at night. so here the council must give up its ignorance of this problem. he needs to come back to reality and face that reality. again, this isn't about the 40-mile radius and the postal and utility services. we need a good regulation for this problem. if the principle is that overwork kills and produces dead and injured, we need responsible regulation. the committee wanted this, and i hope that the commission will eventually be able to join in.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i would like to begin by taking up the point you made at the end of your speech. we need a reasonable control density. rules that are not controlled are pointless and ineffective. we should therefore work together to convince the council to accept the proposals contained in the markov reports and to implement a high degree of control. we must also protect some truck drivers - quite frankly - from their own company and plant managers, because it seems that some drivers are being encouraged, directly or indirectly, to drive too long, and thus become a danger to themselves and to the public. but the rules must also be reasonable and comprehensible. commissioner, you were a little hasty when you simply rejected some of the suggestions in the markov report. our proposals - particularly on the regulation of breaks and daily rest periods - are much more practical and easier to handle and should be supported. on the other hand, i agree with you on the question of trucks under 3.5 tonnes. i agree with mr piecyk that they too are a danger, but we must consider the bureaucratic burden and the costs that would be involved if the regulation on tachographs and the like were extended to these lorries. we should think about this again. we must be realistic, commissioner: the commission is not a party to the treaty. the typical dairy car in the region, the circus car or the tractor really do not need tachographs. they say we don't want too many exceptions. but what we have proposed in the exceptions is simply sensible and understandable. as regards the tachographs, we will be finalising the legislative procedure in the conciliation committee sometime in the autumn of this year, and there is no point in having a regulation which is not applicable at all. i personally believe, on the basis of my contacts with industry, that although some manufacturers claim to be able to provide the tachographs, it is unrealistic that all shippers will be able to install the tachographs in time for august this year. so, go our way and set a reasonable deadline.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! i think that your report is excellent. it is short and concise, and so should the speeches in future be: short and concise. i'm trying to set an example. mr president, you have pointed out that the commission has already done a lot to promote short sea shipping. please consider the rapporteur's report as another offer to engage in dialogue with you in order to encourage further action to promote short sea shipping. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to concentrate on two points. firstly, i would like to know whether the concept of the motorway of the sea is now slowly coming into being. we had a good debate last year, which was initiated by the commission, but i am not quite sure whether the member states are participating and offering projects. we want to support sensible, viable concepts of the motorway of the sea and above all to prevent new funds from affecting existing ferry and feeder links. it is not possible to build something new with new money where there is already something good. i would therefore like to know what the interim situation is, whether there are any sensible projects for the sea motorway that you can support. secondly, we can do so much for the motorway and short sea shipping in general if the lorries are constantly knocking everything down through the back door. i have reports from the baltic sea area that because of the uncontrolled driving and rest periods in some eu countries and because of the cheap russian diesel, it is much cheaper to transport the goods by truck around the baltic sea than to use the baltic sea as a ferry or feeder service. we must be careful not to build something here that will be destroyed in reality by the inaction of the member states. so please get involved and take in the ideas of the report!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is not happy, but is generally satisfied with the implementation of the 2003 budget for the environment, public health and food safety. we have noted that the commission wants to improve the implementation cycle of the multiannual programmes, but we also want the commission to give more targeted calls for proposals and to give applicants a little more support. the commission has not yet adopted the new administrative and financial rules, but it is still waiting for the council to adopt them. we shall not accept that reasoning in future. the european environment agency, the agency for the evaluation of medicinal products and the food safety agency have done a solid and sensible job in our view. we expect such a situation in the future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would first like to thank the rapporteurs for the reports on discharge which have been submitted and which show that the european parliament is very serious about checking whether the large sums of money, which are almost 95% in the form of subsidies, are being used properly, and this shows the problems of the eu budget. i would like to thank mr wynn in particular for a number of suggestions which are also practical. i can only ask you, commissioner, to implement these things. your predecessor was very big on the announcement, but when i look at what she had already promised for the year 2000 with regard to implementation and what you have to do now, mr kallas, that already shows me that there is still room for improvement. the accounting system, to give a very concrete example, was on the agenda when mrs schreyer took office, and you now have the honour of finally implementing it. i hope you'll do the same soon. the report is a good guide to how to do this. however, the discharge reports are not designed to give an account of all the problems of the earth. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. in the tobacco regulation we are not to examine whether it is lawful to pay premiums, but whether everything has been paid lawfully. that's the way the game is, whether you like it or not. i am not sure whether the biggest problem on earth is whether or not there is smoking in the individual offices. this has no budgetary implications and must therefore be resolved elsewhere. so let's focus on what really has to do with household and money and missing money. mr bösch has said a few words on this: we have a lot of work to do. but before the president slays me, i'm gonna stop. i thank the rapporteurs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i support the glenys kinnock report, but i would also like to refer to the statement by geoffrey sachs that the eu must pool its efforts to achieve the millennium development goals. this requires a serious commitment to the 0.7% of gdp target for development aid and not to further shift it, and the implementation of a 100% debt cancellation for the poorest countries. i therefore call on the council to take the opportunity this week to use the gold reserves within the imf for debt relief. secondly, i would like to point out that the commission for africa has called for an additional 25 billion dollars a year to be needed to solve africa's existential problems. i would also like to point out that both the imf and the world bank must finally turn to these existential solutions, especially in view of the world bank presidency of paul wolfowitz.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
the next item is the election of a new vice-president, pursuant to rules 12, 14 and 17 of our rules of procedure, after mr costa has been appointed to the portuguese government. i have only one candidate, antonio dos santos. the rules of procedure state that if there is only one vacant seat and one candidate, the candidate may be elected by a show of hands. is there any objection to that? that's not the case. manuel antónio dos santos has been elected as the new vice-president. (applause from the centre) i look forward to a good, collegial cooperation. tomorrow night you will preside over the night session, mr. vice president.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take up the motion, because that was the subject of the debate last night. we have debated from 10 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. and i think we are all unanimous in support of the amendment. i would therefore like to accept the oral amendment.
i would like to ask you to read the oral amendment. i shall read it then: 'whereas short sea shipping, which accounts for more than 40% of intra-community traffic, is an integral part of the european transport system, since short sea shipping means the carriage of goods and passengers by sea or inland waterways between ports in europe or between those ports and non-european ports in countries with coasts on the sea-locked seas bordering europe'. (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
mr rack, the message has arrived. i would like to say that the conference of presidents has decided that, of course, and something must be done in the night session. but i take your comment seriously and will bring it up in the next debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am pleased with the demetriou report on the european police college and i voted in favour of it too, although i think it is still far too little. i had the honour of being the initiator of this european police academy in 1998, which was later taken up at the tampere summit. it was originally created as a network of national academies and this report is a final step towards its institutionalisation. i must say, however, that we must continue along this path so that this academy becomes a real institution for the training of national and european police forces, as parliament intended from the outset, namely to train police officers of all nations together according to european standards.
the vote is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in fact, mrs dührkop dührkop and i would have preferred to present to you today, on the basis of negotiations, a joint declaration which respects parliament's rights in budgetary policy and presents a serious financial package with regard to romania and bulgaria. i would also have hoped that the council would have learned from the many difficulties we had in the last enlargement. unfortunately, the efforts of the european parliament's negotiating delegation and those of the luxembourg presidency have not been successful. in the words of mrs dührkop dührkop, parliamentary rights, whether in the budget or elsewhere, are not peanuts to be violated at every opportunity. this puts the next package in a bad and unfavourable light, since we are negotiating it together - also in the interests of the european union's ability to act. i would therefore like to reiterate on the record that, according to the figures and estimates available to us from the commission and our own reviews, we believe that the total amount for bulgaria and romania between 2007 and 2013 is likely to be around eur 44.3 billion, of which eur 16 billion for the period up to 2009 of which approximately eur 12.5 billion as agreed in the accession treaty and eur 28 billion for the period 2010 to 2013. that's the one. but here 's the problem . if there is no financial perspective, then these agreements violate the budgetary law of the european parliament, because non-compulsory expenditure becomes a commitment and thus parliament's room for manoeuvre and possibilities of action are somewhat undermined in the subsequent financial planning in the event of a failure of the financial perspective, especially in the field of internal and external policy. i think that every colleague and every political group must take this into account when it comes to such a bad outcome of the negotiations. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. tomorrow the european parliament will vote on the admission of bulgaria to the european union. in this context, i would like to congratulate mr van orden on his report on behalf of the alde group. this comprehensive report strikes a good balance between bulgaria's enormous progress on the one hand and the known problems that still need to be resolved on the other. it is clear that the country is well on its way to membership of the european union in 2007. our group, the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, will therefore vote in favour of bulgaria's accession, with the commitment to provide critical and constructive support for the country in its further development. the bulgarian government has demonstrated its ability to meet the accession criteria and to credibly implement the demands placed on it. this positive momentum must be maintained in the future and must not lead to a slowdown in reform efforts, especially in the run-up to the june elections. the relevant issues have been mentioned here: the privatisation of bulgarian tobacco, the reform of the criminal law. it is true that this is an important day for the european union. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the central feature of this forthcoming enlargement for the european union as a whole, namely the question of the actual observance of the principle of efficiency, which is the subject of the report. only a consistent assessment of candidate countries, based on their own achievements and merits, will preserve the credibility of the european union. this credibility is the prerequisite for the necessary support for our citizens, not only for the accession process but for the work of the european union as a whole. it is only for this reason - and i am saying this specifically to mr moscovici - and not because there is any doubt about the european perspective of the two candidates, that the individual assessment of candidates is so central to my group. the commission's consistent approach in this respect is to be welcomed. commissioner rehn has made it clear that he will not hesitate to recommend the application of the safeguard clause if he deems it appropriate. we will ensure that it does not stop at the announcement, but that if the need is identified, it is done. my group would like to see this house fully involved in this. moreover, i believe - and this is particularly true of the disgraceful behaviour of many of my colleagues from the epp group this afternoon - that we should not be holding this debate in strasbourg but in brussels.
the commission has already done so. we support bulgaria's accession to the eu, as its membership is of considerable political importance. however, the reform process must not be allowed to falter. we shall not accept the van orden report in this form, because it is lacking in some points or is too weakly drawn up. for example, human rights. the bulgarian authorities must develop and implement a clear action plan to combat trafficking in human beings. the conditions for patients in psychiatric hospitals must be improved. the integration of minorities, especially roma, must be further strengthened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. in this context, we are shocked by the threats against representatives of environmental ngos and citizens' initiatives. the environmental problems of the kosloduy and belene nuclear power stations will be discussed by my colleague rebecca harms. the various forms of corruption must be vigorously combated. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the council! i'm glad you're here, even if you're not listening. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have two things to consider as parliamentarians: the first question is whether our rights as members of parliament are being safeguarded in the enlargement process. i am speaking as the spokesman for my group in the committee on budgets - we unanimously adopted the dührkop dührkop report last night - and i can tell you that i do not see that the budgetary rights of the european parliament have been taken into account in the context of enlargement. commissioner, when you say 'i will consider a request from the european parliament', that is not a binding statement for me either, which we can use legally. that's not guaranteed. so when i analyse our internal affairs, i find that parliament is not being given the consideration it deserves in its rights. secondly, we have to check whether the countries of bulgaria and romania meet the accession criteria. when, if not at the mandatory vote under the treaty, which will take place tomorrow, are we going to make a statement on this? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i can't see any progress. if i try to continue this until the end of 2006, i cannot see that the target is being reached. i had suggested that we vote on the applications for accession of bulgaria and romania only after the presentation of the next progress report here in the plenary. i'm afraid that was not possible. i therefore say very clearly - and i can say this for a number of colleagues from my own country - that, as far as romania in particular is concerned, we cannot give our consent at this stage. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i will report back to you on the kosloduj point. my group expects the closure of the kosloduy nuclear power station to take place as stated in the protocol agreed to that effect. we felt that the van orden report was a clarification on this point, because the honourable member was very frank about it. i am very pleased to see the support of mr stenzel and mr swoboda, which i hope will be combined with broad support from their groups for this amendment. i learned yesterday that the bulgarian government has now made a final decision on the construction of the belene power station. we have also tabled an amendment to that effect. bulgaria exports a large amount of electricity. i cannot see that there is a need to continue building the belene so that risks are imported into the country and then electricity is exported. i do not think that makes sense. it is also not sensible to invest european money in this matter. my colleague horáček had mentioned that there are very great difficulties for activists of the civil movement, especially against belene. it is not a good sign when greenpeace international mentions that opponents of nuclear power in bulgaria need personal protection because they are exposed to such extreme attacks.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i have been in favour of bulgaria and romania joining the european union from the beginning. i am today, and i'm gonna stay that way. i welcome all the progress that both countries have made in recent years. but what is the european parliament asking for today? we are supposed to approve accession treaties which have not really been finalised. important elements of the copenhagen criteria are not met. the commission and the council take an oath of negotiating transparency with the safeguard clauses and the deferral clauses. the basic idea is that we should agree to a crutch-based accession. the council also urged the hasty signing of the treaties. at the same time, the council is insulting the european parliament by abolishing budgetary rights. we do not want to punish romania and bulgaria for this. at least the exchange of letters between commission president barroso and parliament president borrell allows us to give our approval, albeit with a lack of pleasure. mr president of the council, mr commissioner, i also say to you: the capital of confidence is being lost in the willingness and ability of the council and the commission to conduct the forthcoming enlargement negotiations as fairly, responsibly and in the interests of the whole as will be necessary. do not count on the european parliament's continued long-suffering. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the wind in the european parliament, which has been blowing steadily in the direction of enlargement, could change!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this parliament has always been in favour of the accession of romania and bulgaria. we have also repeatedly stated that this accession should take place on 1 january 2007, and it is therefore good that we take this decision tomorrow. i was also on the eu-romania joint parliamentary committee and saw the progress that this country has made in dealing with all the problems left behind by the ceauşescu regime. but there is no denying that there is still homework to be done before accession. the fight against corruption and the independence of the judiciary have been mentioned here again and again. i am also pleased that the new government is pursuing these objectives and that national action plans have been presented for 2007. corruption is theft from the national economy, theft from the people. this evil must be removed from society. romania must be a functioning state governed by the rule of law. i also remind you that the constitution is respected - even in the case of problems of occupation of high positions in constitutional bodies - and i remind you that romania is a member of the european family and does not dance out of order here. the washington-london-bucharest axis may be a bit presumptuous, but we are looking forward to this country in the eu. i believe that it will also cooperate normally and well with the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must endorse the contribution made by my colleague mrs van lancker. it is a wish-to-be-shared paper; that becomes clear when you have a closer look. that means it's falling apart. it is not clear whether the efforts are joint, that is, whether the social efforts cover all areas. it is also not clear whether the employment targets are still relevant, because the figures for 2000 are not relevant. one important thing has been completely left out - and that is really a staple of all policies - namely gender mainstreaming. gender mainstreaming is no longer present in your document, although it was a separate pillar in the 1997 employment guidelines. i think that this paper really needs to be revised at this point because we know that women's employment is much worse than men's and that wages and social security are much worse.
vice-president of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we've made an internal division of labour. i will answer the questions put by mrs andersson and mr goebbels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. i would first like to say something about mrs andersson's question on structural change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there's no point in running away from it. the whole strategy is aimed at improving the competitiveness of the european economy in the long term, so that it can compete globally. this will only be possible if we pursue a policy which puts europe at the forefront of environmental, economic and technological progress in all areas. that's the basic idea behind it. europe cannot compete for lower standards, lower wages and lower quality. europe can only compete for the best offer on the market. this, of course, requires structural changes. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this first integrated package of guidelines has basically one purpose: to provide the community framework for the development of national action plans. it is only next year, when we have the national action plans and can assess them, that this package of guidelines will take on its full shape and scope.
member of the commission. let me answer the question concerning the application of early retirement. i think it's absolutely clear that with demographic aging, which will mean the loss of millions of available jobs, it's very necessary that we expand the supply of labor to increase the employment of the entire population. it is also clear, and this is the experience of all employment policies, that the early retirement method has not proved to be a method of combating unemployment and is a method which seriously undermines social systems, in particular the pension system, so that it would be very difficult to secure in the future what a person is certainly entitled to after a full working life, i.e. a stable living situation in retirement. let me just give you a few numbers that show how serious the situation is. the training for the profession takes approximately 22 years. a person is out of work for about 5 years during his active life and is retired for about 20 to 22 years. so in the human lifetime, we're 50 years out of work. this is a situation which is not sustainable in the long term and is also why, for the overall stability of our social systems, we need to expand the supply and make it easier for people who are already older to stay in the labour market. another question that was asked was why social policy is not somehow clearly incorporated and described in this integrated document. it is a problem of the overall structure of our legal system, because the commission is not empowered to present such a document. the contract provides for separate options for this document, which consists of an economic part and a separate employment part. this is the legal framework within which we can operate and there are no other options for submitting such a text. it is precisely on the basis of the principle of gender mainstreaming that the question of equal opportunities is applied in all policies, in all recommendations relating to employment policy, starting with the objective of enabling women to enter the labour market more widely, continuing with the concept of a new balance between the labour market and parental responsibilities, continuing with efforts to reduce the so-called gender gap in remuneration, etc. i think it is quite clear that these directives and principles themselves embody the principle of mainstreaming, i.e. the integration of equal opportunities policy into all the policies of the european union, not only into employment policy but certainly into it in particular.
member of the commission. mr president, in answer to the honourable member's question on the stability and growth pact after the reform, the document adopted today, the broad economic policy guidelines, reflects what reform really is, not some caricature that has been made of it. the reform achieved at the march european council is basically more emphasis on countercyclical policies in good times of the cycle, more emphasis on multilateral surveillance of economic policies that are carried out in good times of the cycle, more attention to budgetary surveillance on medium and long-term sustainability problems and challenges and, as a trade-off, as a trade-off, with that increased attention to countercyclical policies and policies aimed at improving sustainability, more flexibility in the application of the treaty instruments, which remain in the treaty for enhanced budgetary surveillance in excessive deficit procedures. but the treaty reference values, the budgetary limits, the need to maintain budgetary discipline, the role that budgetary discipline must play in creating the conditions for the proper functioning of economic and monetary union, for price stability and for creating the conditions for economic growth, are still there. moreover, i can tell you, madam president, that it will be applied with rigor, but with greater efficiency, because the new stability and growth pact will allow for better coordination and greater compatibility between budgetary surveillance policies and growth policies, as well as the introduction of structural reforms, such as those contained in the lisbon strategy, to improve the growth potential and the sustainability of our growth model and, therefore, its capacity to generate employment and to increase social cohesion. that is the real meaning and content of the reform of the stability pact. cartoons belong to the person who makes them. neither the commission nor the european council are responsible for the caricatures that have been made of the stability pact. and a final comment to mrs van lancker on the relative role of the councils. it is up to the council to organise its discussion, but this morning i was at the ecofin council in luxembourg, i was able to report on the document being discussed simultaneously at the meeting of the college of commissioners, and i was able to see that the ministers for economic affairs and finance intend to discuss all the major economic policy guidelines, in their macroeconomic and microeconomic aspects, and also - with the ease of the integrated package adopted by the commission - the relationship between economic policies, the situation of the labour market and employment policies. the commission's proposal now facilitates discussion of the specific issues in the ecofin council, the social affairs council and the competitiveness council, but with a coherent overall view. that is one of the most important values of the commission proposal adopted today.
the debate is closed.
the next item is question time (b6-0163/2005). we are dealing with a number of questions to the commission. part i
question no 42 by mr enrique barón crespo (h-0189/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: investigation into the murder of journalist josé couso, european citizen in iraqon 8 april 2003, josé couso, spanish and european citizen, tele 5 cameraman, taras protsyuk (reuters) and tarek ayoub (al jazeera) were killed by us forces while carrying out their work as information officers. to date, the us authorities have not launched any investigations or prosecutions. however, the same authorities have agreed to open an investigation with italian involvement into the unjustified attack by the same forces on friday 4 march in order to free the italian and european citizen giuliana sgrena. what measures must be taken to ensure that investigations are opened with sufficient guarantees to clarify the criminal responsibility and the responsibility for compensation in relation to the murder of the european citizen josé couso and his colleagues who died in the course of fulfilling their duty to provide information? question no 76 by mr willy meyer pleite (h-0192/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: investigation into the murder of journalist josé couso in iraqon 8 april 2003, josé couso, a spanish citizen (cameraman for the spanish television channel telecinco), taras prosyuk (reuters) and tarek ayoub (al jazeera) died while carrying out their work as information officers following an attack by american forces on the palestine hotel in baghdad. to this day, the us authorities have maintained absolute silence regarding this dramatic murder, without conducting any investigation or bringing a case to court. however, the same authorities have decided to launch an investigation together with the italian government into the unjustified attack carried out by the same american forces on 4 march 2005 to free the italian journalist giuliana sgrena, which resulted in the death of nicola capilari. what action can the eu take to ensure that investigations are conducted with sufficient guarantees of impartiality to establish all responsibility for the murder of josé couso and his colleagues who were killed in the course of their information mission? question no 77 by mr david hammerstein mintz (h-0206/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: investigation into the murder of journalist josé couso, european citizen in iraqon 8 april 2003, josé couso, spanish and european citizen (cameraman for spanish television channel tele 5), taras protsyuk (reuters) and tarek ayoub (al jazeera) were killed in the course of their work as a result of attacks by us forces. the us authorities did not initiate any investigation or any legal proceedings in this case. in view of the unjustified attack by the same forces on 4 march 2005 during the liberation of the italian journalist giuliana sgrena, which ended with the death of nicola capilari (head of the italian intelligence agency sismi), the united states has very well decided to open an investigation procedure in which italy is to be involved. what measures should therefore be taken to ensure that investigations are carried out to establish both criminal responsibility and responsibility for compensation in relation to the murder of journalist josé couso and his colleagues while they were carrying out their information activities? question no 78 by mr ortuondo larrea (h-0217/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: investigation into the murder of journalist josé couso in iraq following the release of italian journalist giuliana sgrena, italian national nicola calipari was murdered by us forces on 4 march 2005. the italian government and the united states have agreed to launch a joint investigation to clarify this sad incident. on the other hand, the case of the spanish tele 5 cameraman josé couso, the ukrainian reuters news agency cameraman taras protsyuk and the al jazeera cameraman tarek ayoub, who died in an attack by american forces on the palestine hotel in baghdad, has not, as far as we know, been investigated or prosecuted. josé couso was a european. what action can the european union take with regard to joint investigations with the us authorities to clarify the facts and, if necessary, to identify possible responsibilities? question no 79 by mr cavada (h-0241/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: investigation into the death of journalist josé cousoon 8 april 2003, two cameramen, the spaniard josé couso of the telecinco television station and the ukrainian taras protsyuk of the reuters news agency, were killed in baghdad by an attack by the american army on the palestine hotel, where several hundred unembedded journalists were staying. also on 8 april 2003, jordanian journalist tarek ayoub of the al-jazeera network was killed in an american airstrike. according to reporters without borders, the report published by the american authorities on the circumstances of these dramatic events was inadequate. it does not name the people responsible, and the lack of communication between the military who fired on the palestine hotel and their superiors regarding the presence of journalists inside the building has been covered up. what measures can the european union consider to ensure that an independent investigation into the circumstances of the death of josé couso is launched, with a view to identifying and convicting those responsible and compensating the victim's family?
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i can tell you that, so far, none of the governments of the member states has asked the commission to intervene, because they have taken measures themselves. but as the commission always tries to do its utmost to achieve the common good of the whole of europe, we are of course supporting what the member states are doing for their citizens.
question no 43 by mr bushill-matthews (h-0175/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: de-election of expatriate citizens and referendum on the constitutional treatyis the commission aware that many british citizens who are retired in other eu member states will not be able to vote in the national referendums on the proposed european constitution? if they left the united kingdom more than 15 years ago, they no longer have the right to vote there under the current national legislation, but they do not automatically have the right to vote in their new country of residence. it is up to the individual member states to grant such a right, but should there not be some coordination between member states so that these people can also have a say? it is certainly completely wrong to deny european citizens the right to vote on such an important issue. does the commission know how many eu citizens are affected and what measures does it propose that the member states should take to tackle this problem together?
member of the commission. it is true that a citizen of the union who has exercised their fundamental right to free movement could be affected, as they might have no right to participate in referenda either in their member state of residence or in their home member state. however, we should not interpret current community law so that it leads to the conclusion that this issue could be an obstacle to free movement, or might dissuade citizens of the union from exercising their right to it. community law on free movement would be violated as a result.
question no 44 by mr liam aylward (h-0204/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: bioethanol from sugar beetin view of the continuing rise in oil prices and in particular the current reform of the sugar sector, does the commission not consider that it is time to seriously consider, with the participation of governments, all relevant commission directorates, experts in the field, industry and trade, the possibility of developing an industry for the production of bioethanol from sugar beet in the eu?
member of the commission. the july communication on sugar reform recognises the importance of various industries, and particularly the bioethanol industry as sugar users. it therefore proposes the production of sugar beyond the quota at a price closer to that on the world market, for the processing of specific products like bioethanol. as you know sugar beet for the production of biofuel can already be cultivated outside the quota limits. the forthcoming legislative proposal will have to ensure that sufficient sugar is available at competitive prices for these industries, including for its increasing use in biofuel. under the biofuels directive, member states are required to promote and to set targets for the use of biofuels. bioethanol from sugar and grain is a good way to meet this objective. the commission is taking steps to ensure that all member states fulfil their obligations under the directive. the commission will review the implementation of the directive in 2006 and will, if necessary, propose measures to reinforce it. the commission is aware that some firms in the bioethanol industry have expressed reluctance to invest in processing facilities in the eu because they are concerned about the possibility of tariff reductions, leading to large-scale imports from low-cost sugar cane ethanol producers outside the eu. the commission believes that a ‘win-win’ solution should be found that leads to a rapid increase in eu bioethanol production and consumption, combined in a proportionate manner with increased imports. the fuel quality directive places a limit on the ethanol content of petrol. the commission is reviewing certain aspects of the directive and will take into account the need to encourage the use of alternative fuels, including biofuels, as well as the need to introduce modifications for other parameters in the fuel specifications. the commission continues to support targeted research action aimed at developing cost-competitive alternative fuel technology, including ethanol production from sweet sorghum, cereals, agricultural residues and other ligno-cellulosic feedstock. the commission currently contributes to the creation of a european biofuels industry by supporting and facilitating initiatives to create a biofuel technology platform. stakeholders on this platform will include, amongst others, the agricultural and forestry sectors, bioethanol producers and the sugar industry.
member of the commission. i can be quite clear: there will be economic analyses to find the most efficient source for biofuels, taking into account the fact that the commission is really aware of the importance of this. various options for out-of-quota sugar are already being analysed. however, this question will only be answered when the commission tables the legislative proposal for reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar. the reform proposal will have to take into account the outcome of the wto sugar panel, which is expected to be known in late april. the commission cannot, therefore, table the legislative proposal before june or july 2005. the commission will set up a biomass action plan for the second half of 2005. this plan will contain a table and make it quite clear how to achieve the eu targets for renewable energies. that is my answer to the last question.
question no 45 by mr staes (h-0164/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: competition rules and state aid in the nuclear power sectoron 22 september 2004, the commission announced that it would approve the uk government's assistance of eur 6 billion in the restructuring of the energy company british energy. on 1 december 2004 it also announced that it would carry out an investigation to determine whether the establishment of the nuclear decommissioning authority was not contrary to the treaty. the nda is to be given responsibility for the sellafield mox plant and the magnox nuclear power plants and to relieve bnfl of its obligation under the polluter pays principle, which can be considered as the granting of state aid. can the commission state what the amount in the second case might be and whether it shares the view that state aid should actually be internalised in the cost price of nuclear energy and not be borne by the taxpayer?
member of the commission. i can assure you that the commission intends to apply the ‘polluter pays’ principle to the nuclear sector as well. both the commission’s final decision on the restructuring of british energy and its decision to open proceedings on the nuclear decommissioning authority make it clear that under the polluter pays principle, operators of nuclear stations bear the primary responsibility for the payment of the management of their waste and other nuclear liabilities, including planned decommissioning. however, one has to keep in mind that, as with all principles of community law, the polluter pays principle must be reconciled with other community principles and objectives, which may, in certain circumstances, conflict with it. in the british energy case, for instance, the polluter pays principle had to be reconciled with the need to preserve nuclear safety, which is also, as you know, a major community objective enshrined in the euratom treaty. in such cases the commission seeks to strike the best possible balance between diverging principles for the benefit of the community.
question no 46 by mrs batzeli (h-0218/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: mergers in the audiovisual sector in addition to the basic provisions of the treaty on the regulation of concentrations between undertakings, the relevant regulation (ec) no 139/2004 oj l 24, 29.1.2004, p. 1 applies, which states that the control of concentrations between undertakings is in principle the exclusive competence of the commission and that member states may not adopt national competition law (the exclusive competence principle) except in specific cases where the commission considers that national intervention is necessary. how does the commission intend to respond to the activities of corporate groups and large media groups and to the dominant position of the mass media in order to promote pluralism and objective reporting?
member of the commission. according to the merger regulation, the commission cannot take pluralism of the media into account as a legal criterion when it decides whether a merger with a community dimension is compatible with the common market. in carrying out its assessment, it is entitled to take account only of competition-related or economic criteria when determining whether the transaction in question significantly impedes competition in the common market. however, notwithstanding the commission’s sole jurisdiction to examine mergers with a community dimension, article 21(4) of the regulation provides that member states may take appropriate measures to protect legitimate interests other than those taken into consideration by the regulation, provided that they are compatible with the general principles and other provisions of community law. the legitimate interests specifically recognised by the merger regulation include media plurality. ‘the member state’s right to plead the plurality of the media recognises the legitimate concern to maintain diversified sources of information for the sake of plurality of opinion and multiplicity of use’. this would appear to include the objective information referred to in the question by the honourable member. it is clear from the foregoing that the member states should as a matter of priority take appropriate measures under their national law to safeguard the plurality of the media if that legitimate interest were to be threatened by a merger with a community dimension. lastly, the commission points out that in practice the aim of the merger regulation, namely to preserve and develop competitive market structures, can go hand in hand, at least to some extent, with safeguarding media plurality. when the commission considers whether a merger with a community dimension hampers competition on a media market, it necessarily examines the degree of concentration and hence indirectly the degree of pluralism on that market.
question no 47 by gay mitchell (h-0245/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: state aid the irish government has recently abandoned its attempt to obtain approval for state aid of eur 170 million for a new microchip manufacturing plant in ireland. the commission considers that the project is not sufficiently linked to innovation or job creation to justify the aid. it is argued that the commission's interpretation of the state aid guidelines is very narrow and that this decision frustrates all attempts by member states to be competitive in a global market of high-technology industries. what is the commission's response to this allegation?
member of the commission. the commission doubted the compatibility of the investment project with the ec state aid control rules for two main reasons. firstly, there was a real risk of distortion of the conditions of competition since intel has very significant market power in microchip production, and the aid would allow the company to reinforce its dominance. secondly, on the basis of the information submitted, the investment project appeared to be for the large-scale manufacturing of microchips. there was no indication that research and development activity would be transferred to europe, nor of the creation of new jobs at the leixlip site. as you know, leixlip is located in a prosperous region that may not be eligible for regional aid after 2006. any regional investment aid therefore needs to refer to a project scheduled to start before the end of 2006, which was not the case with modules ii and iii of the investment project. for these reasons the commission envisaged to launch an in-depth inquiry according to state aid rules, in order to analyse the balance of the positive and negative aspects of the aid. however, the irish authorities decided to withdraw the notification before any commission decision was taken.
member of the commission. i understand your reason for asking this question. it is worthwhile in itself and therefore i am quite happy that the matter has been raised, because it gives me an opportunity to explain. we should not underestimate the importance of the facilities in leixlip for the local economy. this is aid for a mobile manufacturing project, which will maintain a large number of jobs in the region for seven years, but will not create any new employment. to be quite frank, ireland is an example that proves how important the european union and our policy to stimulate the economy is. however, in this case no new jobs would be created. there is no indication that the project would lead to a transfer of any significant part of the company’s research and development base to europe from the us, for example, or would develop other synergies or spillover effects, which would in turn contribute to innovation in europe, going beyond the specific manufacturing operations concerned. this is a pure manufacturing project for the large-scale production of microchips that will help intel to maintain its position as a leader in the relevant market. it was exactly the combination of those points and arguments that led us to think what we were thinking until the irish government withdrew the notification.
member of the commission. we are talking about different types of aid which are not comparable. i do not see the logic in saying that if we could not move an activity to another part of the european union then aid should be allowed. we have to be consistent in accordance with our rules. only with a consistent policy on state aid, whereby people can expect reliability and can be assured that there are no differing measures, can we face not only you as a member of parliament, but also the outside world and the people involved in the case.
question no 48 by glyn ford (h-0269/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: tickets for the 2006 world cupa resident of my constituency pointed me to the ridiculous system for buying tickets for the 2006 world cup in germany. for the purchase of tickets, only payment by credit card (mastercard), a direct debit from a german bank account or an international bank transfer is apparently accepted, with a very substantial surcharge of 25 pounds sterling or more on any euro transfer for the purchase of a ticket worth € 35, more than doubling the price. will the commission take action against undertakings which do not provide simple information on how a transfer can be made at the same price as transfers within a member state, as provided for in regulation (ec) no 2560/2001 oj l 344, 28.12.2001, p. 13? furthermore, does the commission agree that the restriction to a credit card company constitutes a flagrant breach of eu competition rules? would the commission consider taking action against those responsible for this debacle?
member of the commission. firstly, we have to look at all the relevant facts. they need to be established in order to conclude whether the arrangement in question constitutes an infringement of eu competition law. any arrangement needs to be examined in its economic and factual context. incidentally, in my opinion, fines should not be pocket money.
question no 49 by mr papadimoulis (h-0163/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: disposal of toxic and hazardous waste in greecein greece, there is scant information on the disposal of toxic and hazardous waste, including clinical waste, regardless of the risk to public health and the environment. in view of the infringement of directive 91/689/eec oj l 377, 31.12.1991, p. 20 (article 8 (3)) and the judgment of the european court of justice of 13 june 2002 (case c-33/01) the commission is asked whether greece has established tables or criteria on the basis of which waste is eligible for a particular category of landfill and, if so, whether and when this data has been transmitted to the commission. does the commission know how much toxic and hazardous waste is produced in greece each year, where it ends up, whether it is temporarily stored, incinerated, sent to landfill or for final disposal in other countries and, if so, to which countries it is exported? has greece implemented the above-mentioned judgment of the ecj and, if not, does the commission intend to bring a new action against greece before the european court of justice under article 228 (2) of the ec treaty and at the same time impose a fine?
member of the commission. i think i said that we have initiated the article 228 procedure and have received the greek government's reply, which we are studying. as for the quantities, i told you even more. in 1998, the quantities were 379 000 tonnes of waste, in 1999 376 000, in 2000 391 000 and at approximately these levels until 2003. until then, we have evidence. we don't have any after 2003. of these, some 60% and increasingly (in 2003 it was around 80%) remain in temporary storage. of course, according to the community directive, if the waste is temporarily stored for more than a year, then this area must be classified as a landfill (a landfill site) and comply with the relevant conditions, which is not the case with the greek authorities, and that is why, as i said, the relevant procedures have been initiated.
question no 50 by mairead mcguinness (h-0173/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: compliance with the nitrates directive the nitrates directive 91/676/eec oj l 375, 31.12.1991, p. 1. has been in force for over ten years, but its implementation is difficult for the member states. can the commission state how the nitrates directive is being implemented in the member states, to what extent it is being complied with and what difficulties have been identified in its implementation? can the commission specifically state its position on ireland's recent action plan to meet ireland's obligations under this directive?
member of the commission. the commission does not plan to propose amendments to the nitrates directive, as it is convinced that its full implementation is crucial to reduce the impact of nutrients from agricultural sources on european waters. we are fully committed to ensuring that the nitrates directive will be correctly implemented in the member states with a set of actions including, as i mentioned before, legal pressure through infringement procedures for member states that do not implement the different steps of the directive. significant steps have been taken by the commission to support a better knowledge of the pressures on the environmental status of european waters through regular monitoring; reporting exercises; exchange of technical information and best practices with regard to agriculture and their impact on nutrient losses; and tools for measuring, modelling and forecasting their impact on water quality. a relevant contribution to the implementation of the nitrates directive has also been made by including this directive in the codes of practice underpinning rural development since 2000 and, from 2005 onwards, under cross-compliance with direct payments to producers according to the new agricultural policy.
questions nos 51 to 58 will be answered in writing.
question no 59 by mr bernd posselt (h-0178/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: status of kosovowhat preparations is the commission making to help resolve the status issue in kosovo? does it consider that a european civil administration, eumig, in kosovo is conceivable and desirable?
member of the commission. until the resolution of its final status, the commission is making all efforts to keep kosovo firmly anchored in the stabilisation and association process under the auspices of the united nations security council resolution 1244. the commission believes it is important that kosovo participate fully in this process on the basis of its own merits. it would indeed be detrimental for the security of europe if kosovo becomes a black hole in a region which is otherwise progressing towards european union pre-accession and later accession. the commission supports the provisional institutions of self-government in making progress in the implementation of the priority standards related to the rule of law and multiethnicity before the review date of mid-2005. the commission has included the standards as the main priorities in the european partnership for kosovo. we provide over eur 125 million in cards assistance programmes. we continue to support kosovo through the sap tracking mechanism by giving policy advice and assistance to counterbalance the perception that once the status talks start, standards will no longer be necessary. they will be even more important once the status talks start. the commission is committed to promoting the eu perspective of kosovo, since, regardless of its future status, kosovo is and will remain in europe. in this context, we have set up a liaison office in pristina that works together with the representative of the high representative, as well as the european agency for reconstruction and the eu member states. furthermore, the commission is preparing a communication to the council on enhancing the european perspective of kosovo. this communication will be a contribution to the joint work of the commission and the high representative and the presidency, as invited by the general affairs and external relations council in february to focus on the future contribution of the eu to the efforts of the international community in kosovo. the commission will work closely with mr javier solana and the luxembourg eu presidency on the scope of the eu’s future role in kosovo after unmik. personally, i do not foresee that the eu will govern kosovo as the successor to unmik, as this would contradict our policy of building capacity and sustainability in partner countries with whom we hope one day to negotiate. the scope of eu involvement in the future needs to be examined very carefully in view of its important political and financial implications.
the commission has already done so. thank you for your very good and detailed answer. two specific comments: firstly, with 70% unemployment, standards are obviously difficult to achieve. is not the establishment of a status which can be achieved at least in the medium term a prerequisite for the achievement of standards? so at least a perspective of the status this year must be established. secondly, the people of kosovo naturally want a european administration very much, because they want an administration that is based on european standards.
member of the commission. i share the concern of the honourable member about the high level of unemployment in kosovo. it is detrimental that the province has developed unemployment that, on the basis of some statistics, is about 50%, but on the basis of other statistics is even higher. therefore, it is indispensable that we continue to support kosovo with our financial assistance. it is also vital that the provisional institutions of self-government in kosovo be given support under unmik pillar 4, which the eu supports, in order to make headway as regards economic reform, including privatisation. in general, the settlement is needed sooner rather than later as the demographic pressure in kosovo makes its economic recovery a very difficult task in the absence of a clear legally defined and internationally recognised framework. as regards the future role of the union, the idea that the european union would replace the united nations in a leading executive role would be problematic. we support the idea of a streamlined un mission handing over as much responsibility as possible to empower the local authorities that should, as much as possible, be our direct interlocutors in the future.
question no 60 by mr david martin (h-0187/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: judicial reform in bulgariadoes the commission consider that sufficient progress has been made in the reform of the judiciary in bulgaria to allow bulgaria to become a member in 2007?
member of the commission. as you quite rightly said, we are currently financing twinning programmes with bulgaria and romania. in my view these have been one of the most efficient tools of technology transfer in institution-building and reinforcing administrative capacity. it is our intention to continue these programmes with bulgaria and romania, as well as when we start negotiations with turkey, and once we make further progress with the countries in the western balkans. in my view, twinning provides one of the best tools for providing know-how and transferring institutional knowledge to the candidate countries and potential candidate countries.
question no 61 by anna hedh (h-0210/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: turkish women's right to work after the green light for turkey's future eu membership negotiations, the statistics on employment rates for women in turkey are cause for concern. only 10% of turkish women are in employment. the social democrats have always considered the question of women's right to work to be of the utmost importance for a high degree of equality between men and women. women who are in employment have good conditions for independent living and are not dependent on the family for their livelihood. this issue has also been highlighted in the lisbon strategy, which aims, among other things, to increase the employment rate of women in the eu to 60% by 2010. in view of the copenhagen criteria, which require all candidate countries to be able to achieve the political, economic and monetary objectives of the union, will the commission state whether the issue of women's employment will be raised as a priority issue in the forthcoming accession negotiations with turkey?
member of the commission. in its regular reports and bilateral contacts with the turkish authorities, the commission has consistently highlighted the low rate of participation of women in the official labour market as a serious problem inhibiting the economic emancipation of women, and as a constraint on the economic potential of turkey. in addition, gender equality, and particularly equal treatment in employment between persons irrespective of gender, is part of the community acquis in the area of employment and social policy. therefore, the commission closely monitors turkey’s alignment with the requirements of eu legislation and its practical implementation. however, despite the determination shown by the government and a number of positive measures, limited progress has been made on the adoption of legislation aimed at guaranteeing the effective prohibition of discrimination in employment. during negotiations on the relevant chapters of the community acquis, this matter will be followed very closely and considered a priority issue.
member of the commission. that was one of the key issues when the eu-turkey ministerial troika met in ankara on 7 march. by coincidence, we held our troika meeting the day after the demonstration to which you referred. once we saw what had happened and had obtained information, we issued a clear statement on behalf of the european union, together with the luxembourg presidency and the forthcoming uk presidency, in which we condemned all violence in demonstrations. we also condemned the disproportionate use of force, which was clearly being used in the treatment of the mainly female and young demonstrators in istanbul. foreign minister gul said in our troika meeting that he regretted the events and that the government will conduct an investigation into what happened, how and why. three investigations are currently being carried out in turkey: one by the police, one by the ministry of the interior and the third one by the turkish grand national assembly. we are closely following them. once the investigations are complete, we will have them at our disposal. in the meantime turkey has suspended six policemen because of the events in istanbul on 7 march.
question no 62 by mr panagiotis beglitis (h-0213/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: construction and operation of three nuclear power plants in turkey a recent article in the turkish daily radikal reports on turkey's energy programme and the turkish government's intention to build three nuclear power plants to be operational in 2012, starting with the planned power plant in the konya region. if confirmed, this information will create new facts in the wider mediterranean area and will cause understandable concern to the neighbouring countries and peoples, and in particular to greece and its island regions which are close to the selected sites of the nuclear power stations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear power stations in turkey are not destroyed by a major earthquake. is the commission in possession of this information as a result of its constant contacts with the turkish authorities? if so, what measures has it taken or is it planning to take to prevent such a programme? how does it intend to deal with the issue of nuclear power generation in turkey in general in the context of the accession negotiations after october 2005?
we have a strictly prescribed time-frame and a threefold question period. if the members are taking advantage of the opportunity of demand, i cannot of course simply prevent that opportunity. this will then shift the timing and the possibility of dealing with questions within a certain time limit. i'm very sorry, but we're ten minutes past the time. questions 63 to 104 are to be answered in writing. question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.40 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the next item is a statement by the commission on the global threat of a flu pandemic.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mr giovanni pittella, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the 2006 budgetary procedure: annual strategic planning of the commission [2004/2270(bud) ] (a6-0071/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the new challenges of regional policy by gerardo galeote quecedo, konstantinos hatzidakis and sérgio marques, on behalf of the ppe-de group, and constanze krehl, bárbara dührkop dührkop, marilisa xenogiannakopoulou and antónio costa, on behalf of the pse group (b6-0161/2005) and the oral question on the challenges of regional policy in the context of the 2007-2013 financial framework by pedro guerreiro, bairbre de brún and kyriacos triantaphyllides, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (b6-0170/2005).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course, enlargement has presented enormous challenges to the european union's regional policy, and we are facing those challenges as well. we must always bear in mind that regional policy is the most visible policy for citizens in the european union. we therefore have a responsibility to continue it in a meaningful and sustainable way. mr galeote quecedo has just mentioned the burdens that will be imposed. i would like to make the point that we must ensure that the burden of such an enlargement, which naturally entails costs, is shared fairly. on the one hand, this means solidarity with the regions which are no longer involved in structural and cohesion policy as in previous years. but it is also important to point out that the countries in the european union, which are called net contributors, must not be overburdened. i must also be able to explain at home that the money the federal republic of germany is spending in europe is well spent. i have to get people at home to understand, but i also have to get people in the european union to understand that it's not as easy as it was maybe 10 years ago. i therefore think it is very important that the commission has put forward proposals for a corrective mechanism to offset this net budgetary burden a little. i think it is necessary that in future - also in the council of ministers - more serious consideration should be given to reorganizing the system of own resources and to moving away from the burden and the way in which it is being done today. i also think it is necessary - and that is why we started thinking about co-financing agriculture in the financial perspective in the böge report - to ensure that this sector does not continue as in the past. i would also point out that we in the european parliament have a responsibility to use the money as efficiently as possible and to look carefully at what it is being spent on. the n+2 rule plays an important role in this, particularly in terms of responsibility towards the net taxpayers and the responsible use of taxpayers' money. i hope that today's debate will help us to continue to shape the financial perspective and regional policy and that we will act in solidarity with one another.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as a german, i support the commission's proposal for the financial perspective because i am in favour of solidarity between the regions, and there are a lot of elements in this proposal which are an expression of such solidarity. regional policy, however, provides for solidarity between regions. the cohesion funds are not the appropriate means for this, in my view and in the view of our group, because they lack the programme-oriented approach. the structural funds are much better at tackling the problems of the regions, at improving the quality of implementation and at using resources efficiently. the commission has incorporated into the new approach a great deal of parliament's criticism of the cohesion fund. i therefore consider the proposal to be balanced and can vote for it, even if i come from a net contributor country. i think that excessive demands are counterproductive at this point. they do not lead to the goal, but they lead to a blockage which we have at the moment, now that we want this financial perspective to be adopted as soon as possible and that we, as parliament, are fighting alongside the commission against the position of the net contributors who have 1%. i believe that such approaches are highly counterproductive at the moment.
mrs de brún, i have to remind you, as always, that, for the time being, irish is not an official language of the european union and therefore the first part of your speech was not interpreted and will not be included in the record.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in regional policy we do not have the money we want, nor do we have the money we need. that's why the money we have has to be distributed well, wisely and correctly. of course, the main issue is money, but regional policy is not just about money, but above all about the political objective of reducing disparities between the regions of the european union, especially after enlargement. we are not talking about a single market, but about a single market in which the people of europe are the only ones who can benefit from the single market. to put it plainly, without an increase in the structural funds after enlargement, the new member states will always be tempted to block decisions on greater integration. in other words: the eu's structural policy funding must continue to provide adequate support to regions with underdevelopment and special socioeconomic problems in the current eu and the new member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposed distribution of the appropriations between the various objectives, with which we agree in principle, can of course only be applied to the overall allocation proposed by the commission. maintaining the distribution relationship while reducing the overall allocation as proposed by individual countries would put the target convergence areas of the former eu-15 at a severe disadvantage. we cannot and will not accept that.
thank you commissioner. i did not mean to rush you, but we are running short of time and still have two reports to debate. die aussprache ist geschlossen.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products and amending council directive 92/42/eec and directives 96/57/ec and 2000/55/ec of the european parliament and of the council (11414/1/2004 c6-0246/2004 2003/0172 ((cod)) (rapporteur: frédérique ries) (a6-0057/2005).
member of the commission. madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ries, and the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment and constructive cooperation in the aim of reaching an agreement at this second reading. i believe this directive will deliver long-lasting benefits to consumers, and to the environment, by lowering our energy consumption and by producing more environmentally-sound products. the eco-design directive will also help eu industry to face worldwide challenges related to the environmental improvement of its products. adding to what parliament achieved with its first reading, the rapporteur, mrs ries, together with her colleagues and shadow rapporteurs, has negotiated a package of compromise amendments that, once accepted by the council, will reshape the common position on essential issues. i refer in particular to the compromise amendments affecting articles 12 and 13. these changes will assure a high level of environmental protection when setting eco-design requirements and introduce additional measures in favour of smes and to facilitate market surveillance. i am particularly satisfied that suitable wording was found to put a focus on the need to improve the energy efficiency of products, while still taking account of the integrated approach promoted by the directive. i have already made clear that energy efficiency is one of my main priorities. the eco-design framework is one of the most efficient tools we could use to reduce energy consumption and mitigate climate change. obviously, parliament wanted to be reassured that once the commission had its mandate it would make good use of it. the common position amended by the package tabled will leave no ambiguity on that issue: the commission will have to deliver and report back on its achievements. i can promise you that. in this context, and on a request from the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs during the most recent negotiations on the compromise package, i can also state that, without prejudice to the outcome of the ratification process of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, which i am confident will take place, the commission will examine the issue of the implementation of articles 36 and 37 of the constitution in relation to this framework directive. i believe the european parliament, through the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs, has achieved a lot and this proposal should be supported by this house.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking mrs ries and all the other speakers on behalf of the epp group for the constructive work they have done, and i would also like to thank commissioner piebalgs. we have achieved a good result and we can make a great deal of progress for the environment. the commission, after consulting industry and environmental organisations, has estimated the potential of this directive to reduce co2 emissions to 180 million tonnes. that is 53% of what we as the european union have to achieve under the kyoto agreement. we have insisted in the negotiations that as much of this potential as possible should be realised in good time. the epp considered this an important directive and we have been constructive from the outset. we have proposed three very important amendments which have been accepted in the negotiations, and i am very pleased about that. firstly, this directive applies not only to producers in the european union but to all products which reach the european market, regardless of where they are produced. secondly, we have insisted on tightening controls on importers and the fight against fraud, more than the commission and the council originally intended. thirdly, we have made it possible to reduce the burden of red tape on businesses. annex i is now much more acceptable, and small and mediumsized businesses are grateful to us. i also have a written statement from the smes on this matter. but we have set ambitious targets for the environment, and i'm particularly pleased that we've made reducing standby losses a top priority because there's a huge waste of energy here, and it's very easy to stop this waste of energy. the commission must now move quickly to implement the directive, and you, commissioner, must provide your people in the commission with sufficient staff to ensure that this can be done in a timely manner.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i also thank the rapporteur for her work and do not envy her the task of bringing about this compromise. i have not yet found peace with this directive. i have no doubt that the policy we are pursuing in the directive will not end up with more environmentally friendly products but, above all, with bureaucratic barriers to market entry. in the end, it will not be the protection of the environment through less resource consumption, but fewer companies and fewer jobs in the electronics and electrical engineering industries. instead of defining concrete criteria that can be traced back to the end product, we continue to rely on product and process control. why not let the creative ideas of technicians and engineers run wild in our search for the best technological concepts? the best available technology - also from an environmental point of view - will only be found if we do not impede competition. this kind of product policy reminds me very much of the planned economy regulations i know from the gdr. at that time, it was decided at party congresses how many color televisions of what type were to be produced in what period. planned economy doesn't work! this was proved on several occasions in the 20th century. the european commission has apparently not yet heard of this. the present directive is not very far from a planned economic instrument, in particular because of the top-runner approach, the pre-product controls and the ecological balances. i am glad that the environment committee has removed the requirement to draw up environmental reports for the whole life cycle of a product from the directive. the differences in requirements for manufacturers and importers remain, and the resulting market distortions are also an unresolved problem. despite all the progress we have made with the compromise package, for small businesses this directive is a bureaucratic monster. i have the impression that the often repeated demand that the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises be taken into account has become an abstract phrase. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending directive 1999/32/ec as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels (12891/2/2004 c5-0248/2004 2002/0259 ((cod)) (rapporteur: mr satu hassi) (a6-0056/2005).
mrs mcavan, i sympathise with you, because for 15 years i too have been debating environmental legislation during the night sittings. but there we are, we will try for the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission's position on the proposal the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept the compromise package: namely amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 in full, and amendment no 21 in part. if the compromise package should fall, the commission could accept amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 17 and 18 in full, and the following amendments in part or in principle: amendments nos 4, 5, 6, 10, 12, 13, 14, 16, 20, 21 and 22. amendments nos 7, 8, 9, 11, 15 and 19 are not acceptable to the commission.
the meeting is closed.
president of the council. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 january in this house i presented to you the programme of the luxembourg presidency for the next six months. today, as is the custom, i shall briefly present the results of the recent european council. briefly because, in view of the overwhelming presence of members of parliament, the debate may not be sustained. so i will not feed it, except to tell you that we agreed on the reform of the stability and growth pact after bitter debates, after exchanges between men and men, even if women's voices were heard in this heated debate. the result we have achieved is a balanced result, since it attaches the full importance it deserves to stability and does everything in its power not to hinder, by applying the rules of stability, the growth opportunities that exist and that must exist in europe. to do this, we have not touched on the fundamental principles of the pact, but we have broadened its scope, since the stability and growth pact will now apply to all stages of the economic cycle, and in a differentiated way. this reform, which we have achieved, is the result of excellent cooperation - i should like to emphasize this here - between the commission and the council, more specifically between the presidency of the commission and the presidency of the council, between the commissioner for monetary affairs and the president of the council of finance ministers. it was a real pleasure for me to work hand in hand with the commission. everything has been said about the reform of the pact and much of what has been said is a lie. those who say that after the reform of the pact all deficits will be allowed, those who claim that the message is now being sent that europe can move towards the unproductive lands of massive debt are gravely mistaken. neither the basic rules of the treaty nor those of the pact have been changed. the 3% and 60% criteria remain the cornerstone of a system which will continue to be based on clear rules and clear legal rules. i would like to repeat here that as soon as we see that the 3% value is exceeded, the commission will draw up a report and the member state concerned will be placed under close surveillance. i am saying here that, as has always been the case, exceeding the reference value, i.e. 3%, does not automatically lead to the initiation of infringement proceedings. some people say that this is an innovation, but they are not familiar with the maastricht treaty, which has provided for this rule since 1992. the commission's powers have not been reduced, but they have been strengthened by the reform of the pact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second item on the agenda of the brussels european council was the interim review of the lisbon strategy. you will recall that in our debate on 12 january there was great concern that the council was upsetting the fundamental balance of the lisbon strategy. after the commission presented its communication on the lisbon strategy on 2 february and after the commission communication on the social agenda, the commission and the council - again acting together - managed to maintain the basic balance of the lisbon strategy. of course, we have refocused the lisbon strategy on growth and competitiveness, but we have not abandoned its social and environmental dimensions. as i have said for several months, i have to say that europeans still do not understand the importance of the lisbon strategy, because we are talking about competitiveness, productivity and growth, and these are concepts and expressions that do not speak to the hearts of europeans. in fact, what europeans want is work, to be able to set up a business, to find the necessary financing, to have open markets, efficient communication and transport systems at their disposal. they would like to be able to better balance work and family life, to be able to keep up with new technologies and the internet world. they want to be able to have a good education for their children; they want to have at their disposal services of general interest and efficient public services; they want to have decent pensions; they want to be able to grow in a healthy environment. the lisbon strategy is all about this and to give credence to the idea that governments and the commission will henceforth have to be more proactive and more consistent in the way they implement the decisions under the lisbon strategy, we have grouped the steps to be taken around three axes concentrated on ten areas and illustrated in one hundred individual measures. the lisbon strategy has many actors: the commission, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council, the commission, the european parliament, the council, the commission, the european parliament, the council, the european parliament, the commission, the council, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council, the commission, the european parliament, the council, the commission, the european parliament, the council, the commission. there are national parliaments. there are national governments. there are local and regional authorities. all these authorities and bodies must be able to take better ownership of the lisbon strategy. i say this especially for national governments, who, because they are accountable to their national parliaments and to european public opinion, have a responsibility to do everything possible to give full weight to the various elements of the lisbon strategy. i would like to say a few words about the directive named after a former commissioner. on 12 january i told you that the presidency would say yes to the opening up of the services markets and no to social dumping, and that it would like to see all the risks of social dumping eliminated from this proposal for a directive. this was confirmed by the european council in march, which called on the parties to the legislative procedure to make the substantial changes necessary to the proposal for a directive in order to ensure that all the requirements of the european social model were met. on this point, as on others, i would like to deny the impression, or even the suspicion, based on ignorance, that the present commission is the driving force behind a neoliberal europe. this was not my perception when i had to discuss, with the various commission colleagues, the directive on the opening-up of services in particular. it is a proposal for a directive which is the result of the deliberations of the former commission. the new commission, together with the other european institutions, will bring about the changes required by the european social model. we, mr president, wanted to clarify the quibble that had been created in recent years, because we wanted to show by what we did that there is a difference between the sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy. it is wrong to claim that sustainable development is the third pillar of the lisbon strategy, since sustainable development is a horizontal concept that affects all other policies and therefore concerns everything that falls under the lisbon strategy, such as the environment, fisheries, agriculture, public finances, social security. sustainable development is therefore what we call an overarching principle which must be respected in the implementation of all the policies the european union is seeking to implement. the presidency will take the initiative to ensure that the june european council adopts a declaration on the guiding principles of sustainable development, which will serve as a basis for the renewal of the sustainable development strategy adopted by the gothenburg european council in 2001. we have looked at, on the basis of a decision taken by the environment ministers, all the policies that will have to be taken into account when it comes to raising the subject of climate change. you have seen that the european council welcomed the entry into force of the kyoto protocol, and more particularly its ratification by the russian federation. the union will now need to develop a medium- and long-term strategy to combat climate change, which will have to be compatible with the objective of a global annual temperature increase of no more than 2 degrees celsius compared to pre-industrial levels. given the global emissions reductions required, joint efforts will be required by all countries in the coming decades. the union considers that reduction profiles of the order of 15 to 30% by 2020 should be considered for the group of developed countries, compared with the kyoto reference values, and beyond that, in the spirit of the conclusions of the council of environment ministers, reductions of the order of 60 to 80% by 2050. we have discussed a number of issues relating to external relations at the brussels european council. you have noted with a little pleasure what we have said about the reform of the united nations. we have taken the opportunity of the council to return to the painful subject of lebanon, a country which is going through more and more difficulties and which deserves the solidarity of the europeans. we therefore called on syria to implement swiftly its commitments to withdraw all troops and all intelligence services from lebanon. mr president, i would like to be more complete, but i will be at the end of the debate, if there is to be a debate. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. mr president, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that i share with you today the commission's analysis of the results of the spring european council and explain how the commission intends to follow up the important decisions taken there. i consider the outcome of the spring council to be very positive overall. this result is particularly important as it was a meeting taking place at a crucial time and needed to demonstrate the union's capacity to tackle the major socioeconomic challenges facing europe today. i believe that we have responded satisfactorily to this challenge and that the european council has given the necessary political impetus and direction. i cannot but commend the efforts and ability shown by president juncker and the luxembourg presidency in general throughout this process. i would like to stress at the outset an idea which i believe is essential in this council, today and for the future of the union: the idea of convergence between the main institutions. in fact, the first paragraph of the conclusions is clear when it says the following regarding the commission's strategic objectives presented by myself for the period 2005-2009: 'the heads of state and government noted and welcomed the broad agreement between the council, the european parliament and the commission on the priorities of the union for the coming years, in particular on legislative activity.' this is the spirit which will enable us to overcome the foreseeable difficulties which lie ahead for the union. i would like to stress in particular at this european council that the decisions taken on the stability and growth pact and the renewed lisbon strategy allow the member states to continue their efforts to complete the triptych at the european council in june, by concluding, as we hope, the agreement on the future financial perspective of the union. i would now like to comment in more detail on the three main subjects which, as you know, were discussed at the spring european council. first, the stability and growth pact. as we all know, consensus on the pact broke down in november 2003. a new consensus on a proper fiscal framework has now been reached. the commission made a very important contribution to this end. the commission launched discussions in its 2004 public finance report and in september 2004 the commission adopted a communication on strengthening and clarifying the stability and growth pact. since then, the commission has actively contributed to the debate on the reform of the pact and supported the presidency in its efforts to find a consensus, while preserving the essence of our budgetary framework. the european council's agreement was a very positive outcome, restoring credibility to the pact and preserving the commission's prerogatives. under this agreement the treaty principles are maintained. the budget deficit of member states cannot exceed 3% of gdp and government debt is still limited to 60%. to avoid excessive deficits any overstepping of these limits can only be temporary and only in exceptional circumstances. a new feature is that member states are being asked to exercise more discipline. they must step up their efforts to reduce deficits in growth periods, while a degree of flexibility has been introduced for periods of economic difficulty. the commission intends to present its proposals for amending the relevant regulations before the end of this month so that reform can be completed by june. it is in everyone's interest that we make rapid progress on finalising the reform of the pact in order to offer greater transparency and predictability regarding public finances and budgetary developments. this is an ambitious timetable but one that can undoubtedly be achieved with the cooperation of all the players involved: the member states, the european parliament, and the european central bank. i am sure that i can count on your cooperation in attaining these objectives. the commission will do what is necessary to ensure the success of this joint project and is ready to work closely with you to do this, as requested in the joint motion for a resolution. in order to be effective, the pact must count on the broadest political support, which is why wide support within parliament is of the utmost importance. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the very active role of the presidency, the recent european council has given the necessary political impetus to the lisbon ambition. we have put this strategy on track by setting clear objectives - growth and employment - targeted and effective actions and simplified instruments, while respecting, of course, the union's permanent objectives, including sustainable development. the commission is extremely pleased with this result because its proposals were the basis of the work and conclusions of the european council. personally, i am glad that the heads of state and government have approved and validated our approach in such a unanimous manner. this clearly shows the impetus which the commission, supported in particular by the european parliament, can give to the important resolution it has adopted, in the matter of issues which, we recognize, are largely national in scope. on the other hand, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the discussions between the heads of state and government have shown a real appropriation on the part of the member states. following the european council in november, when the kok report was discussed, the member states decided to relaunch the lisbon strategy. they must now appoint national coordinators and prepare by the end of the year reform programmes detailing the measures to be taken to promote growth and employment. the refocusing of the strategy on growth and employment, in the framework of sustainable development, has been largely supported. the full range of national and community resources in the three dimensions - economic, social and environmental - must be used to achieve these objectives. the european council provided the necessary clarification on the lisbon objectives and the link with the sustainable development strategy. the new governance, accepted as a necessary improvement to be put into effect by the member states, was also an important aspect because it really made it possible to test the credibility of the new lisbon strategy and to see whether the member states were really willing to accept a strengthened system of governance. the response was positive. the main elements will be the integrated guidelines and the national programmes to be presented by the end of 2005. the commission is now continuing this work by confirming the monitoring elements of the european council. i would like to draw attention to four main stages for the next few months. the first step is the adoption by the commission, on 12 april, of the integrated guidelines which were presented by vice-president verheugen and commissioners almunia and spidla in this house yesterday afternoon. this is an important exercise by which the commission confirms the refocus on growth and employment and gives the member states a coherent and unique framework for action for the preparation of their respective programmes. the european council in june will be called upon to validate it politically. our approach represents a real added value, and this for three reasons. firstly, it allows for a reinforcement of the coherence of actions and reforms to be carried out in the macro- and micro-economic and employment fields. we bring the necessary clarification to the process of economic governance and we safeguard the necessary balance between operational strategy and political visibility. it then begins the preparation of the first element of the new three-year lisbon cycle. finally, it provides the political and strategic framework within which the member states must build their national action programmes. the second stage of this process will be the presentation of a community programme in lisbon. the european council called on the commission to present a community action programme in parallel with the national programmes. this document, which should be prepared for the summer, will take up the actions already listed in the document accompanying our communication on the revision of the lisbon strategy of 2 february. the commission will also put this community programme into effect rapidly by presenting the many important initiatives which we have identified and which the european council has confirmed: the reform of state aid, the european technological institute, the i2010 initiative. the third stage will be a communication in the form of a methodological guide for national reports. thus, the commission will provide an upstream orientation for the preparation of national reports. the fourth stage will be the preparation and analysis of the national programmes which we are planning for the second half of the year. we have therefore seen and can now see that this was not really a simple political declaration, that the european council really wanted a new appropriation of the lisbon strategy and that we are already doing so in practice. in the context of the discussion on the lisbon strategy, the european council reaffirmed the importance of an internal market for services for the central objective of growth and employment, while stressing that it must preserve the european social model. the european council called for all efforts to be made in the legislative process on the services directive to reach a broad consensus on all these objectives. i would like to stress once again, as i had already done on 2 february, that the commission believes that it is possible to reach this consensus. on this point, your parliament naturally has a central role to play. the third important question of the european council was sustainable development. i am pleased that the conclusions of the spring european council confirmed the importance of the sustainable development strategy while clarifying that the lisbon strategy contributes to the wider objective of sustainable development. in this context, it is also important to note that the european council has recognised the importance of the issue of climate change, confirming in particular that the increase in the annual global temperature must not exceed 2 degrees centigrade compared to the pre-industrial era. i also note with satisfaction the positive reception of the commission's communication 'conquering climate change' and the invitation to it to continue its analysis of the benefits and costs of co2 reduction strategies. this will help the union to develop a medium and longterm strategy for the industrialised countries to reduce emissions by 15-30% by 2020. the commission intends to continue its action through the second phase of the european programme on climate change. finally, i welcome the fact that the european council has given a strong signal of the union's willingness to give new impetus to international negotiations by studying the options for a post-2012 regime. the european council expects the adoption of a declaration on the guiding principles of sustainable development in june and plans to examine the revision of the sustainable development strategy in the second half of this year. the commission will also make appropriate proposals to this end. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, you will agree with us that the outcome of the spring european council is an excellent basis for moving towards a renewal of the union's economy in the wider context of sustainable development. many more tasks still have to be carried out to put into effect the guidelines and decisions taken by the european council. this requires the mobilisation of all the parties concerned, and i can assure you that the commission is fully mobilised to provide its contribution rapidly. i count on your participation and active support. i end as i began, with the idea of convergence between the institutions, convergence on medium-term objectives, and i believe that this same spirit of convergence, which was also present yesterday when i addressed the temporary committee on the political challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged union, must continue to be affirmed in the period ahead. we made a major breakthrough at the spring european council: revision of the lisbon strategy, revision of the stability and growth pact. we must maintain the financial perspective. for this, cooperation between the commission and your parliament is essential, as, of course, is the work carried out in close cooperation with the european council. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the epp-ed group welcomes the results of the spring summit with regard to the lisbon strategy. we believe the language found there is appropriate now. at the same time, the objectives are ambitious but also realistic. we agree with the council and the commission that our aim must be to improve the competitiveness of the european union, that our aim must be to achieve more growth and that in this way we must also create more jobs by increasing competitiveness and stronger growth. it is the joint task of the commission, the council and parliament to ensure that our european legislation is also designed to meet this objective. this applies in particular to all legislation in the area of reach, i.e. chemical legislation, where we as parliament and as council have a huge legislative task to perform. i would ask the commission to make its contribution in this respect. in the context of the lisbon strategy, we very clearly welcome the fact that there is now good cooperation not only between the commission, the council and parliament, but also with the national parliaments in particular. the president of the european parliament has suggested the - in my opinion - very good initiative that we have discussed the lisbon strategy with our national colleagues here in the european parliament. this is good for the cause - for the lisbon strategy - but also for cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments, and it should be an example for other policy areas. as far as the stability of the european currency is concerned, the vast majority of our group would have welcomed it if we had stayed with the rules as they are. we emphasize very strongly that confidence in the stability of the european currency is the basis of confidence for europeans among themselves and for the european unification process. but it must be recognized - and i am addressing this in particular to the president of the european council, who has the experience (i believe he was the only one who was present at maastricht and signed the agreement) - that it is guaranteed that the 3% and 60% criteria will not be compromised. that is why the interpretation is not correct, you could go to 4%, maybe even more. i'm not going to. the explicit decision is that if the debt is above 3%, it should be close to 3%, and that this is not a free letter and not an alibi for unlimited new debt. i would like to ask the commission, on behalf of our group, to continue to play its role as guardian of law and stability with determination in the future. as regards the question of croatia, our group believes that croatia is not being treated fairly. but we welcome the efforts made, in particular by the president of the european council, to ensure that in the end not only the international criminal court in the hague decides whether to open negotiations, but that a commission is set up to assess the situation in croatia. i recommend that we start work quickly so that negotiations with croatia can also be opened. i strongly support what has been said on kyoto. we stand with all those who are determined to reduce emissions. in our joint resolution - parliament's compromise resolution - we also make a statement on the arms embargo against china in paragraph 35. we are telling the heads of state and government that we as the european parliament - i think we will agree on this - but we as a group will not give our consent to the lifting of the arms embargo for human rights and other reasons. (applause from the centre) the priority of the priorities for the next few weeks is the adoption of the european constitution. we ask all those involved to contribute so that we can obtain a majority in the french and dutch referendums and so that we can have a good basis for all future referendums, because the constitution is the priority of priorities and we need the european constitution for the future of europe. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the house is empty. i have listened with interest to my colleague mr poettering. we in the socialist group were very interested to hear how he now copes with the fact that a number of christian-democratic heads of government have a different view from that of the overwhelming majority of the epp group in this house. he has devised rather elegant formulations to conceal this split in the conservative party family, between the bloc in the parliamentary group, which is not homogeneous but very heterogeneous, and the heads of government. what's this about? mr poettering started with lisbon and he strongly welcomed the lisbon strategy. we are in complete agreement. it is true that signals were given at this summit with regard to lisbon and the implementation of the lisbon objectives, and the president of the commission and the president of the council have rightly reported on this. this is what we wanted, what is positive about this summit and what is encouraging. we are in complete agreement. the combination of the reform of the stability pact and the need for flexibility, which this also implies for national governments, and the defined objectives of the lisbon process, mr poettering, is what really makes sense of the summit and its outcome. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the combination of the necessary flexibility instruments now contained in this pact and the objectives of the lisbon process described in the combination of both decisions is the particular appeal of the outcome of this summit. that is why we, the socialist group, can strongly support the results, and that is also reflected in our resolution which we shall adopt today with broad support. i assume that now the sceptics in the epp group will also support the wording of the stability and growth pact, which is almost identical to what we called for before this summit. we hope so, and we are particularly pleased. i have listened with equal attention, mr poettering, to your call, which i can quite understand, for the speedy opening of negotiations with croatia. we shall see this afternoon how resilient the statements of the epp group are when it comes to reaching conclusions in the accession negotiations. but if those who are now hoping in croatia that your statements will be reliable are likely to be treated this afternoon in a similar way to bulgaria and romania, then we should tell them in zagreb in advance that they should have another talk with mr poettering. (applause from the centre) the socialist group strongly welcomes the fact that the council's conclusions offer hope, particularly in another area. in the last few years, we have been putting the weight of the social democrats on sustainable development and climate change in our demands for europe's role in the world. the decisions taken today - mr president of the commission has referred to this again - are indicative. we must say to the citizens - and i will return to your correct remarks on the french referendum - that no country in the world and no european country, not even a highly industrialized one, will be able to meet the challenges of the 21st century on its own. the european community is the only community that can do this: the economic, monetary, social and cultural community, the community which can develop europe as a force, as a community for sustainable development and for the reduction of environmental risks. these are global challenges which no country, no country, no country can meet alone. europe as a continent and the eu as the political organisation of this continent has the task of confronting these risks. this was a message of the spring summit that should not be underestimated. the social democrats in this house are grateful for this too, and that is why we can support our motion for a resolution in the happy expectation of widespread support from the epp and the liberal group. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i congratulate the luxembourg presidency on the completion of the work on the reform of the stability and growth pact last month. the new form of the pact has a number of positive aspects. the preventive aspect of the pact is strengthened, member states have an incentive to use good times to prepare for bad times. the debt of the countries is given increased attention. the different economic situations of the member states are taken into account more than ever before. in this respect, there is a great opportunity to work in the future on realistic solutions to problems in cases of violation of the deficit and debt criterion. the reform of the pact is intended to help improve the coordination of member states' economic policies, while underlining the need for sustainable fiscal policies. i doubt, however, that these positive aspects will be enough to move the euro area forward. i fear that these reforms will not restore the lost confidence of the citizens. the reformed pact, in my view, has too many weaknesses. in future, the european central bank alone will have to ensure that the euro remains stable, as the pact as a second pillar of stability will be virtually ineffective. the increased margin of interpretation and the uncertain special circumstances will tempt some member states to incur new debts. this could soon force the european central bank to raise interest rates, and in any case only endanger weak growth in the eurozone. i believe that the commission has emerged from the reform process not strengthened but weakened. it seems more than doubtful whether it will be able to play its role as guardian of the pact effectively. the systematic application of the contractual sanction mechanism for breaches of contract seems less likely than ever. i hope that despite these concerns, we can prevent possible damage from the euro area. the amendments to regulations nos 1466 and 1467 can and must clarify the ambiguous wording. the alliance of liberals and democrats expects the european parliament to be involved in the process of re-drafting these regulations and in monitoring compliance with the pact in a timely manner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you don't make a house with a shaky foundation winter-proof by fixing the roof. the stability pact should not be reformed, it should be abolished. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already launched a series of initiatives to improve the competitiveness of european industry, including the introduction of a european strategy for the environment. but those who benefit from it are clearly not satisfied. the services directive presented is a new attempt to put the european social model to rest once and for all. instead of harmonizing standards at the top level, an endless dumping race to harmonize at the bottom level; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this is clearly the vision of europe that is being promoted by the think tanks of the big corporations, the corporate lobby. in march, 70,000 people demonstrated in brussels against the neoliberal project of the brachial. they will be attentive to whether the council's criticism was only aimed at the forthcoming constitutional referendum in france or whether serious action will follow.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the stability and growth pact has been widely praised. but i am convinced that it was a very difficult birth and the result is far from satisfactory. i do not wish to diminish the achievement of mr juncker and mr barroso in bringing together national egoisms, but what has emerged is a medium-term nail in the coffin for the stability of the euro. we do not see this now because at the moment the united states and japan have much higher debt. but once the debt is reduced, the stability of the euro and its exchange rate will be called into question. of course, the 3% and 60% values have been respected. but it has not been discussed at all that the decisions of the stability and growth pact say that a balanced budget should be sought. the first test, involving the two largest countries, germany and france, has already failed. and if you don't keep a pact in bad times, what reason do you have to keep it in good times? i don't see that as a realistic concept. the difference between 0% and 3% alone amounts to 250 billion euros in the euro area. this is money that could have been used for business cycles, for natural disasters or for international commitments. by the time they got there, they were all used up. i therefore believe that the reference to the european central bank is not enough either, because the european central bank is independent but it is a subsidiary of the national banks. the european central bank has a board of governors, but two-thirds of that board is dominated by the heads of the national central banks. as long as the european central bank is not able to orient its own refinancing operations to the good or bad rating of euro area government bonds, it will not be able to contribute to the euro's long-term stability.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council! it's accomplished! we had the summit, the stability and growth pact was - some say - reformed, or - others say - abolished, the services directive was attacked. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political one. now we're going to make it! this could be a message. i am grateful to you, mr president of the commission, for saying at the beginning of your speech that the debate on the stability pact was opened because the consensus on the respect of the rules of the past had been cancelled. it was a new way of doing things. then the question arose of how to get there. it has been said by liars in the meantime. i am certainly not uncomfortable with the assessment of the stability and growth pact in the wake of the european central bank and the bundesbank. i would also like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. will we in europe be able to make such decisions in the future? i would like to say this about the lisbon strategy: i hope for a strong commission. i am aware, mr president of the commission, that you have a harder time than jacques delors in realizing a vision, because jacques delors had other heads of government at his side. at that time, mitterrand and kohl were active supporters of european progress. it is important that the commission focuses on what europe can do and not on producing too much paper. the council considers it important that the member states commit themselves to what they themselves regularly agree to and do their homework so that we can also achieve the objective. i would like to say one thing about the services directive: we are expected to vote on romania and bulgaria this afternoon. i would like to say to those who have stormed the council against this directive: we have problems with the freedom to provide services in the 10 member states because it was not included in the accession treaties. we should not repeat this mistake and beat up others for it, but the freedom to provide services should be corrected in the concept of bulgaria and romania in accordance with the will of those who are in favour. otherwise, we have the same problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council's enlargement strategy is flawed. the central european country of croatia, which fulfils the criteria better than some member states, is discriminated against. romania, a clearly european country, but one which falls far short of the criteria, is being whipped. ukraine, a european country, but one which will not be ready for accession for decades to come and for which we will not be ready to welcome in the coming years, will be consoled on st. nimmerlein day no concrete strategy will be developed. and with a clearly non-european country like turkey, accession negotiations are to begin this year. i would like to appeal to the council to reconsider this strategy in depth and, firstly, to ensure that the green light for accession negotiations with croatia is given immediately, and no later than 21 may, and that the working party set up thanks to your efforts, mr president-in-office, comes to a conclusion without delay. secondly, i would appeal that romania and bulgaria be allowed to join on time, but that we be given the opportunity to wait until the autumn for the relevant progress reports. thirdly, i would appeal to you to give the eu a long respite from the internal consolidation it so badly needs after the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia. i would also like to appeal to you to make sure that the accession negotiations with turkey, which are too demanding and overwhelming for the eu, are not started in the autumn, but that a strategy of good neighbourliness is developed here and that a concept is also developed for ukraine. otherwise, what has come out of the orange revolution will also fail, with serious consequences for europe. (applause from the centre)
president of the council. mr president, at the end of this debate, which has been very chaotic for the most part, i should like to clarify a few points. i am pleased that there has been very little controversy about the european council decisions on the lisbon strategy. this seems to me quite normal, consistent and consequential, since - and some read it to their own advantage - the european parliament resolution adopted on the lisbon strategy is almost entirely reflected in the conclusions of the european council. the fact that some of its elements are criticized today is a strong case of self-criticism. that's a fact! i also think it is essential that we give at least one credit to the european council's decision on the lisbon strategy, namely that it has placed a heavy responsibility on the shoulders of the member states. we were quite in agreement in january when we debated the matter that it was up to national governments to make the lisbon strategy a success not just for individual countries but for europe as a whole. from now on, national governments will be accountable to their national parliaments for their national reform programmes, the council will be accountable to the european parliament and the commission will play the role it has always played, that of facilitator and encourager, a role which consists of bringing all the member states together to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy, which was designed to ensure that the european social model remains accessible to as many europeans as possible in the future. i note that within certain groups, which are more ecumenical than catholic, there are strictly divergent views on the main lines of what political action at european level should be. it is easier, mr radwan, to compromise on the stability pact than to ensure the cohesion of the group to which you belong. i saw it today as i saw it yesterday. i would like to say that i am very surprised that the interim stages of the reform of the stability pacts are accompanied by the same rhetorical sharpness and relevant commentary. when some governments made the proposal, all the expenditure blocks from the stability pact were removed, and the criticism sounded the same as it does now, after this has not happened! i was thinking something. the preventive part of the pacts was essentially gestärkt. why did he have to be so much stronger? because of the old covenant, i had neglected this aspect of its maintenance. some governments have also abandoned the correct policy of pursuing deficit and debt reduction. the only way to improve the situation was to have a considerable doubt. the corrective part of the pacts have actually only unessential to them, was vertrag und pakt zu der frage ausdrücken, verändert. if, of course, the idea is that the 3.0% is also really 3.0%, that a procedure is being initiated against countries with a deficit of over 3.0% and that these countries will be subject to sanctions if they do not fall below the 3.0% threshold next year, then the reform of the stability pacts does not meet expectations. this would have required substantial contract changes and the consequence would have been that we could no longer be oriented in substantially different ways to the old stability pact. the treaty does not state that any deficit of more than 3% is an excessive deficit. the contract is interpreted in an unzulässigen manner. it is simply not in the treaty, and i do not accept that people do so as ob, and that those who fall back on a correct interpretation of the treaties are now treated as stability offenders. why can one rely on the exclusive interpretation of the contract and the contract itself? i read and am amused myself in part even that the council, the 25 finance ministers, the 25 heads of state and government of germany and france would be in the knie gegangen. this is strictly ridiculous and in any case offensive to the 23 others. (beifall) the idea that only a sharp call from berlin or a clear indication from paris is needed for 23 other governments to be able to come together is a completely un-european view and a contradiction to the ever-recurring need for europe to come together and to find compromise solutions. i do not want to have to ask myself how great the criticism would have been yesterday in this house if we had failed at lisbon, if we had not succeeded, if the balances had been so achieved, as they were called for by the european parliament, or if we had failed completely in the stability pact reform! there are some who think the old covenant would have been so good that it would not have needed to be changed. this view is not shared by any government of the 25 member states. the idea that the 25 heads of state and government and the 25 finance ministers have now made their way towards a deficit and debt spiral is an absolutely adventurous idea, which i would very strongly disagree with! (beifall) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. i think it is sometimes seriously threatened and i did not quite understand what mr watson said, and i did not know whether he was speaking to me or to a group of member states. i do not want to believe that you are blaming me for not being able to get the epp members to take the same position on all issues because i do not represent the epp here. i represent the european council. for those who have drawn everyone's attention to the lack of credibility of europe, i would say this: i would like to thank very warmly the members who have been attending this debate since 9 o'clock this morning. visitors to parliament today were surprised to see that there were not more people when europe debates key issues. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, mr president-in-office. i hope or expect that the criticism has arrived.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, very briefly to conclude. as regards the reform of the stability and growth pact, we really must - if we want to have an honest debate - recognise that the problems are not the result of this reform, but have been there for some time. as of november 2003, there was no longer a consensus on the stability and growth pact. what we have just done, what the member states have done with the active support of the presidency and the european commission, is a credible reform of the pact. i can give you every assurance - and i am addressing myself in particular to those who have expressed concerns, which are also legitimate - that the commission intends to apply, objectively and on an equal footing between all the member states, the same rules of the stability and growth pact. i can also guarantee that the role of the commission has not been diminished, quite the contrary, by this reform. the range of situations in which the commission will be called upon to give its opinion or to take the initiative has been considerably extended. so we now have a pact which may be much more credible in its application than the one we had before this reform. similarly, with regard to lisbon, there is clearly - and i saw this in the discussion this morning - a very broad consensus on a system with strengthened governance, where there is a better distinction between what falls within the competence of the union and what falls within the competence of the member states. member states have accepted this enhanced governance and, once again, this also strengthens the credibility of our lisbon objectives. but let me also return to an important point in the european council conclusions which i did not mention in my introduction to this debate: development policy in the context of the millennium development goals. the european council, at its last meeting, asked the commission to speed up its work in order to finalise the union's positions in view of the important meetings at the united nations in september. i am pleased to announce that the commission adopted yesterday, here in strasbourg, a major package of proposals which commissioner michel and i announced yesterday. it includes new intermediate objectives, a stronger focus on aid quality and greater policy coherence. in this development package, particular attention is also paid to sub-saharan africa. the commission gives these proposals high priority. we are actively working with the member states to make this meeting on the millennium development goals a success and we count heavily on your support. i have given this example, mr president, also to illustrate a point which i think is important. it's that we're really working on operational decisions. we have set out in the european council the objectives and the new instruments of the renewed lisbon strategy and have just approved the integrated guidelines, together with macroeconomic policy, microeconomic policy and employment. we have just presented them to the european parliament. the european council has made a request on development and we are putting forward concrete proposals. i am well aware that in the difficult times we are now living in europe, attention is very often focused more on the controversial aspects, on what does not arouse either agreement among the member states or unanimity among them. but what i would like to stress is that, despite these differences and despite, at times, divergences, we are able to reach, as was the case at the spring council, very important consensus. i would therefore like to stress what the president-in-office of the council has just said. what would be your reaction if we did not come here with results that reflect a consensus and what would be the message to our public opinion? so at this stage, although i share many of the concerns and worries that some of you have expressed, the question is whether we are focusing on the areas where there is not a perfect consensus or whether we should not focus on what we are able to do together. because that is the culture of compromise in europe, and i stress this point very strongly. we will not make progress in a european union of 25 if we do not explain to our citizens that in europe we cannot win 100%. no member state will win 100% on all the positions it defends. our europe is becoming more and more complex! so it is up to us, as leaders in the council, the commission or the european parliament, as political functionaries, to explain to our fellow citizens that compromises must be made, that europe is the compromise. europe is about working together for goals that are far more important than short-term issues or national sensibilities. this is responsibility and accountability, this is the first condition for effective leadership, the leadership that europe needs at this stage. (applause) i would like to thank
i am grateful to the president of the council and the president of the commission for their cooperation. the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments.) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have heard a very important statement from the president of the european council, and i would like to thank the luxembourg presidency, mr juncker, and also mr schmit, for the fact that the reservations which have hitherto been on the council's table are no longer on the table and that the financial rights and the rights of the european parliament are being respected. this is indeed a great success. for those who do not know what has happened in the last few hours, we as a group decided last night to ask for the postponement of our approval of the accession of bulgaria and romania on the grounds that the rights of parliament, that is to say our financial rights, are not being respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank you, mr president-in-office, for the efforts you have made in the last few hours. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is helpful to hear what mr poettering has just said. we can come to a common procedure from the very exciting and obviously very controversial discussions which took place last night, above all in the epp group. the president of the council has announced that the council is now accepting the draft. for mr cohn-bendit: paragraph 1 of the draft now before us for a vote, as it stands, states that the european parliament regrets that the joint declaration annexed to this draft report, according to which the three institutions must reach agreement on the financial implications of the accession of bulgaria and romania, has not been adopted. this is now replaced by - and i would also put this as an oral amendment - that we welcome the fact that agreement has been reached, as the president-in-office of the council said, because it fulfils all the prerogatives of parliament vis-à-vis the council and we can then reach a positive vote.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we could have had all this sooner. (applause from the centre) we have gone to the limit as a parliamentary delegation in the negotiations. i am very pleased that the council has finally been able to agree at the last minute to this joint declaration, which is supposed to be a declaration by the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the oral amendment tabled by the chairman of the committee on budgets, as just presented, is intended to replace our entire report. it's the only way to make it right. we would ask you to vote on the oral amendment tabled by mr lewandowski instead of our report. this is to ensure that parliament, the plenary, adopts the joint declaration of the council and parliament on the respect of budgetary rights today. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to thank mrs stenzel. i shall also refer to the rules of procedure to clarify a point. the request for the date of closure of the kosloduy nuclear power plant was not made by us in error. i am well aware that not all the epp-ed group shares the view of some austrian colleagues in the epp-ed group on the implementation of the kosloduy protocol. i'm not that naive. i do not want this important position to be called into question by a procedural error which has obviously been made in the secretariat. i would like to thank the members for their initiative in supporting this motion for the timely closure of kosloduy. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i do not know of anyone in this house who is serious about it and who would not be in favour of bulgaria and romania joining the european union. but i know a great many who have difficulty in making that decision today for the reasons mr cohn-bendit has given. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre) this would be a way of addressing many concerns and of sowing no doubt about our fundamental readiness and determination to welcome these countries into the eu. i therefore sympathize with and understand the views of mr cohn-bendit. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the csu members of the european parliament are firmly convinced that romania should become a member of the eu. however, the csu has always argued that eu membership is conditional on the fulfilment of certain criteria. we reject any relaxation of the criteria and consider that a final assessment of their fulfilment is not possible at this stage. the commission's latest progress reports confirm that romania still faces significant shortcomings in meeting the accession criteria, in particular as regards the fight against corruption and the rule of law in the judiciary. the csu also considers it important to safeguard the parliament's rights under the treaty, particularly in the budgetary field. this has now been achieved. we would have considered it appropriate to postpone the accession decision until after the commission's next progress report. this postponement would have been all the more justified since we are still 20 months away from the envisaged date of accession. for all these reasons, the csu members cannot at this stage agree to romania's accession to the european union.
in writing. 1.i am firmly convinced that bulgaria and romania should become members of the eu. their admission is subject to certain criteria. these must continue to apply. 2.the council has refused to adjust the financial perspective in the event of accession in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement. i cannot accept this interference with parliament's budgetary rights. 3.the commission confirms in its latest progress reports, in particular on anti-corruption and the rule of law, that there are still significant shortcomings in both countries in meeting the accession criteria. 4.given the clear backlog of both countries in meeting the accession criteria and the failure of the trialogue to advance the financial perspective, a decision is premature at this stage. a postponement of the accession decision until after the commission's next progress report would have been appropriate. this postponement is all the more justified as we are still 20 months away from the envisaged date of accession. i regret that i am not in a position to give my consent at the moment.
in writing. 1. i reaffirm my conviction that bulgaria and romania should become members of the eu. their admission is subject to certain criteria. these must continue to apply. the council refused to adjust the financial perspective in the event of accession in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement. i do not accept this interference with parliament's budgetary rights. the commission confirms in its latest progress reports, in particular on anti-corruption and the rule of law, that there are still significant shortcomings in both countries in meeting the accession criteria. i therefore welcome in particular the efforts of the new romanian government. it is pursuing reforms with determination to make up for the shortfall of the previous government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the regions in the community, in particular by introducing a new system of regional aid for the regions concerned. i would have thought it appropriate to postpone the decision on accession until after the commission's next progress report. this postponement would have been all the more justified since we are still 20 months away from the envisaged date of accession. i regret that i am not in a position to give my consent at the moment.
in writing. the implementation of the aquiris communitaires has not progressed as expected in the two candidate countries. the accession negotiations have not sufficiently taken into account women's rights in the areas of the labour market, participation in social processes and violence against women. the situation of children has not improved at all, particularly in romania. these questions of human rights and humanity are to be valued even more highly than the problems raised in the institutional structure of the eu institutions which led to a compromise at the last minute, for example, full respect for the budgetary law of the european parliament. i have also stated on several occasions that i cannot agree to any enlargement before the constitution has entered into force. for these reasons, i will not agree to the accession of romania and bulgaria 20 months before the planned date of 2007.
in writing. 1.we reaffirm our conviction that bulgaria and romania should become members of the eu. their admission is subject to certain criteria. these must continue to apply. 2.the commission confirms in its latest progress reports, in particular on anti-corruption and the rule of law, that there are still significant shortcomings in both countries in meeting the accession criteria. we therefore welcome in particular the efforts of the new romanian government. it is pursuing reforms with determination to make up for the shortfall of the previous government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession of the new member states to the european union is not delayed. we would have considered it appropriate to postpone the accession decision until after the commission's next progress report. this postponement would have been all the more justified since we are still 20 months away from the envisaged date of accession. we regret that we are not in a position to give our consent at the moment.
in writing. 1. i reaffirm my conviction that bulgaria and romania should become members of the eu. their admission is subject to certain criteria. these must continue to apply. the council refused to adjust the financial perspective in the event of accession in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement. i do not accept this interference with parliament's budgetary rights. the commission confirms in its latest progress reports, in particular on anti-corruption and the rule of law, that there are still significant shortcomings in both countries in meeting the accession criteria. i therefore welcome in particular the efforts of the new romanian government. it is pursuing reforms with determination to make up for the shortfall of the previous government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial perspective is not distorted by the failure of the trialogue to move forward with the financial perspective. i would have thought it appropriate to postpone the decision on accession until after the commission's next progress report. this postponement would have been all the more justified since we are still 20 months away from the envisaged date of accession. i regret that we are not in a position to agree to accession at the moment.
in writing. bulgaria and romania are members of the european family of nations, which makes them eligible for membership of the european union. however, membership of the european union is subject to the fulfilment of certain criteria. both bulgaria and romania have made efforts to reform since the collapse of the communist systems. these efforts are to be commended. however, the ongoing progress reports of the european commission show consistent and significant shortcomings in the fulfilment of these accession criteria in the case of bulgaria and romania. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu acquis in the field of justice and home affairs, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of justice and home affairs. the reform process must continue and be completed before accession. the two candidate countries should be given more time to implement and fulfil the copenhagen criteria in their mutual interest. in this context, it would have been appropriate to postpone the accession decision until after the next progress report, rather than making a determination today. i regret that i am not in a position to give my consent at the moment.
in writing. i believe that bulgaria and romania should become members of the eu. but their admission is subject to the fulfilment of criteria which we members must ensure are respected. our electorate expects it. 2.the commission confirms in its latest progress reports, in particular on anti-corruption and the rule of law, that there are still significant shortcomings in both countries in meeting the accession criteria. we therefore welcome in particular the efforts of the new romanian government. it is pursuing reforms with determination to make up for the shortfall of the previous government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession of the new member states to the european union is not delayed. i would have thought it appropriate to postpone the decision on accession until after the commission's next progress report. this postponement would have been all the more justified since we are still 20 months away from the envisaged date of accession. i therefore regret that for these reasons, which are not the fault of parliament, i am forced to vote against.
in writing. 1.we reaffirm our conviction that bulgaria and romania should become members of the eu. their admission is subject to certain criteria. these must continue to apply. 2.the commission confirms in its latest progress reports, in particular on anti-corruption and the rule of law, that there are still significant shortcomings in both countries in meeting the accession criteria. we therefore welcome in particular the efforts of the new romanian government. it is pursuing reforms with determination to make up for the shortfall of the previous government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial perspective is not distorted by the failure of the trialogue to move forward with the financial perspective. we would have considered it appropriate to postpone the accession decision until after the commission's next progress report. this postponement would have been all the more justified since we are still 20 months away from the envisaged date of accession. we regret that we are not in a position to give our consent at the moment.
in writing. the eu is also preparing to take action on the issue of the right to vote. however, their admission is subject to certain criteria. 2.the commission notes in its latest progress reports that there are still significant shortcomings in both countries in meeting the accession criteria, in particular in the fight against corruption and the functioning of the judiciary under the rule of law. the new romanian government's efforts to press ahead with reforms to address the shortcomings of the previous government are therefore particularly welcome. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu is not delayed.
in writing. 1.we reaffirm our conviction that bulgaria and romania should become members of the eu. their admission is subject to certain criteria. these must continue to apply. the council refused to adjust the financial perspective in the event of accession in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement. we cannot accept this interference with parliament's budgetary rights. the commission confirms in its latest progress reports, in particular on anti-corruption and the rule of law, that there are still significant shortcomings in both countries in meeting the accession criteria. we therefore welcome in particular the efforts of the new romanian government. it is pursuing reforms with determination to make up for the shortfall of the previous government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial perspective is not distorted by the failure of the trialogue to move forward with the financial perspective. we would have considered it appropriate to postpone the accession decision until after the commission's next progress report. this postponement would have been all the more justified since we are still 20 months away from the envisaged date of accession. we regret that we are not in a position to give our consent at the moment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the march council summit. the lisbon process needed to be given new priorities, given the weak growth of 1.7% and an employment rate of 63% instead of 70%. the focus on growth and employment is helping smes in particular, which are responsible for 80% of jobs and 70% of training. the charge of 'neo-liberalism' is false, because it is not about lowering minimum standards, but about more and better jobs. the european social model is to be stabilised through investment in human capital, modern social protection and better involvement of the social partners. the european pact for youth is important: lasting integration into the labour market, better education and training and more mobility for young people. the campaign "active ageing" is important for the elderly. the experience, competence and performance of these workers have been given greater importance. they must be able to stay in employment longer and to have a greater share in education and training. overall, we need to integrate our elderly people better into society. i am counting on their concrete proposals for solutions to respond to the commission's green paper on the demographic situation in the eu.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council is continuously and strongly concerned about relations between the western balkans and the european union, which remains strongly committed to the stabilization and association of this neighbouring region. under the european security strategy, this region is a high priority for the european union, which is documented, among other things, by the european union's police and military presence in the western balkans, in addition to the civilian aspects. the future of this region lies in the european union. the thessaloniki summit of 21 june 2003 clearly underlined the european vocation of the western balkans. while the eu's commitment to the western balkans is unequivocal, it is up to the countries of the region to make good use of it. the countries concerned must demonstrate, through policies and concrete actions, their willingness and capacity to become, in due course, candidates for membership of the european union with a view to joining it one day. the union will continue to actively support them in their efforts to bring about political and institutional reforms. this will undoubtedly require perseverance and a strong commitment on both sides, as the challenges to be met remain considerable. but they can be reversed and controlled, because it is in the interest of the peoples of the western balkans, who have definitely gone through dark times, to reverse them. it is also in the interest of the european union to promote this path to europe, because our primary objective must be peace and stability on the european continent. the stabilisation and association process remains the overall framework for the european path of the western balkan countries towards future membership. the process aims to help countries in the region to establish peace, democracy, stability, prosperity and respect for minority rights in a sustainable way. these are the very objectives of the european project which, after the most terrible of wars, reconciled the enemy nations and enabled them to build a common future. it is important to note that this same ideal, this same vision, also enriched the experience of the last enlargement. this morning we have just taken a very important decision, your parliament has just taken a very important decision in this respect, in this case with regard to bulgaria and romania. each year, the council shall examine both the progress made by the countries of the stabilisation and association process and the outstanding problems, on the basis of the commission's annual reports. this review is an important exercise which reminds us that the western balkans are making progress towards the european union. as agreed at the thessaloniki summit, the union concluded european partnerships with the countries of the region for the first time in 2004. they were presented by the commission together with the reports on partnerships and the stabilisation and association process. these partnerships, which are modelled on the accession partnerships of the candidate countries, serve as individualised roadmaps, adapted to the specific situations of each country. they indicate the precise actions to be taken as a matter of priority. the commission and the council shall monitor the progress of the implementation of these partnerships. the union's approach to the balkans is therefore already highly individualised and based on the principle of own merits. all the participants at the thessaloniki summit accepted that the speed with which the countries of the region progress towards future membership will depend on the pace at which they implement the necessary reforms and comply with the existing copenhagen criteria and the stabilisation and association process. the top performers can move up the ladder faster. only two countries currently have a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union, namely croatia and fyrom. croatia is now the first country in the region to become a candidate country. the process is therefore global, but it follows a merit-based approach. the prospect of accession, which is the only guarantee that the development of these countries is for all, is, however, applied according to the own merits approach. the last review of the stabilisation and association process by the council in may 2004 welcomed the progress made in the region. it noted a lasting stabilisation of the security situation. but despite the successes of recent years, the possibility of slippage, of violence, of questioning the fundamental values on which the european construction is based cannot, unfortunately, be ruled out forever. this is why we must remain particularly vigilant and alert to possible developments. peace and stability are not final achievements in this region. the legacies of a dark past, where destructive nationalism has wreaked havoc, have not been totally erased. the year 2005 will be a year of significant opportunities for the region. the council will therefore closely monitor the continued implementation of the ohrid framework agreement in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which has applied for membership of the european union. the political developments in albania, particularly in the run-up to the parliamentary elections due to take place this summer, deserve our full attention. as regards serbia and montenegro and bosnia and herzegovina, the council should, inter alia, express its opinion during this six-month period on the advisability of negotiating a stabilisation and association agreement. negotiations for such an agreement are continuing with albania. and the council will have to consider the application for accession of fyrom later this year, on the basis of the commission's opinion. for kosovo, mid-2005 will provide a first opportunity to assess progress in effective compliance with un standards. the positive outcome of this assessment will determine progress towards a process to determine, in dialogue and cooperation with all relevant parties, the future status of kosovo. finally, as regards croatia, the intergovernmental conference for accession negotiations will be convened by mutual agreement as soon as the council - and i hope it will be soon - has established that croatia is cooperating fully with the hague tribunal. this full cooperation with the court is a key requirement for all the western balkan components. real progress has been made in recent times, but it still needs to be made. the european union's initiatives to promote regional integration in the western balkans, particularly in the areas of infrastructure, education, the return of refugees, the fight against crime and cultural exchanges, are essential. regional cooperation promoting the economic integration of the region is an important instrument for promoting reconciliation, promoting reforms and, above all, improving the economic and social situation in the region. endemic unemployment, which is at record levels and largely due to insufficient private investment, is characteristic of parts of the western balkans and is a major factor in social as well as political instability. the council therefore attaches particular importance to the promotion of regional cooperation, which is a key element of the stabilisation and association partnership. in its assessment of this process in may 2004, the council welcomed the significant improvements in regional cooperation, particularly in the areas of infrastructure, trade and energy. assistance projects in the areas mentioned in the question are being implemented by the commission under the cards programme and, in particular for croatia, through the pre-accession instruments which are of particular importance in this respect. the objective of the cards regulation is, among other things, to implement reconstruction projects, to provide assistance for the return of refugees and for the stabilisation of the region, but also to encourage regional cooperation. discussions are currently under way in the council on the new financial instrument for preaccession assistance proposed by the commission. from 2007, it should be the framework for eu assistance to candidate and potential candidate countries, categories in which the western balkans are included.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank parliament, and the rapporteur mr samuelsen, for the forward-looking resolution on the western balkans and for the commitment of parliament and of its foreign affairs committee to the region. currently, most of the countries in the western balkans are making tangible progress in their relations with the eu. yet, many issues still need to be addressed and progress consolidated and reinforced. the years 2005 and 2006 will be crucial for the western balkans in relation to the european union. we are at a real watershed. we have to overcome certain short-term issues to be able to focus on long-term economic and social development. the most critical immediate issues concern the conclusion of the work of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia – icty – and the settlement of the future status of kosovo. as a former member of the european parliament, i have always been proud of the strong record of this house in advocating respect for human rights and related international obligations, as well as in supporting the multilateral system based on the united nations. this is why i particularly welcome parliament’s views in paragraphs 37 and 46, where full cooperation with icty, the hague tribunal, is underlined. this support for human rights, the rule of law and un-based multilateralism is the reason why the european union has made cooperation with icty a condition in its relations with the countries in the region. this autumn, probably in november, the commission will present the enlargement package and report in more detail on the progress made by the countries in the region. let me now take the opportunity to sketch out where we stand today as regards these countries. looking at albania, i share the concern expressed in parliament’s resolution on the political climate, particularly in the context of this summer’s parliamentary elections. i have recently written to prime minister nano to underline that the commission will only be able to propose the conclusion of negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement if the parliamentary elections this summer are conducted in accordance with international standards. tangible achievements must also be made in fighting corruption and organised crime. bosnia and herzegovina is actively tackling the priorities we identified in the feasibility report in late 2003. once the country achieves significant progress in all priority areas, we can recommend opening negotiations on the stabilisation and accession agreement. i hope to be able to do so next month. on icty cooperation, there is significant progress, and the trend must be reinforced to lead to full cooperation. for the opening of saa negotiations, the police reform is a particularly important condition for bosnia and herzegovina. the high representative and the union have been instrumental in advancing stability and reform in bosnia and herzegovina. i believe, however, that the country is ready to assume more responsibility for its own future. with responsible and democratically accountable authorities in place in bosnia and herzegovina, i foresee a smooth and gradual phasing-out of the office of the high representative. as we approach the tenth anniversary of the dayton peace accords, it is indeed time to move from the era of dayton to the era of brussels. i was disappointed that croatia was not able to ensure full cooperation with the icty by mid-march. as you know, in december the european council decided that accession negotiations could only be opened on 17 march, if there was full cooperation with the hague tribunal. this concerns the willingness and ability of the state structures in croatia to comply with the rule of law and international obligations. croatia must now demonstrate that it is fully cooperating with the icty. let me be clear. croatia’s future is in the european union. through the adoption of the negotiating framework, the eu has done what is necessary to start the negotiations. the eu is ready, once croatia is ready. let me turn to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. president barroso and i met prime minister bučkovski in february when he handed over the country’s replies to the commission’s questionnaire. my services are currently analysing the 13 000 pages – 45 kg – of replies. we expect the government to make further progress in its reform agenda, to strengthen the rule of law and to implement the ohrid framework agreement. i am concerned about the osce reports on the repetition of irregularities in the latest municipal elections. the authorities must now react decisively and ensure that future elections can take place in full compliance with international standards. depending on the political development, on the progress in legal, political and economic reforms and on the technical quality of the replies, we aim to adopt the opinion by the end of this year. yesterday the commission took a positive decision on the feasibility study for serbia and montenegro. we now consider the country to be sufficiently prepared to negotiate a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union. we need to treat countries equally at equal stages; we must use the same yardstick at the same stage for each country. negotiating a stabilisation and association agreement is very different from negotiating accession to the union. we will demand more as serbia and montenegro moves forward in the process. to reach this stage serbia and montenegro had to make special efforts. i welcome the agreement concluded last week on the constitutional charter, which ensures the legitimacy of the state union parliament. i am pleased that the country has finally made significant progress in cooperating with the hague tribunal. so far this year, a dozen persons indicted for war crimes have boarded the plane to the hague. efforts should be reinforced until none of the remaining indictees is still at large. accession negotiations proper cannot even be considered until the country has achieved full cooperation with icty. with the tenth anniverary of srebrenica approaching in july, radovan karadzić and ratko mladić must be brought to justice. this is the beginning of the european road for serbia and montenegro. the country has achieved a great deal over the past few years. now it is time to move on, time to reward significant progress, and time to show the citizens of serbia and montenegro that meeting critical international obligations brings them closer to the european union. kosovo will be high on the agenda in the months to come, with the standards review coming up in mid-2005, likely to be followed by discussions on kosovo’s future status. we are focusing on helping the kosovo authorities to make progress on implementing un standards, especially the rule of law and the rights of minorities. once the status has been settled, we will continue to support kosovo’s progress towards european integration. the commission plans to present a communication next week on ‘a european future for kosovo’. it will give a clear signal to the leaders and people of kosovo that the eu is fully committed to their european future. we also expect the kosovan leaders to show a constructive attitude, including meeting serbian leaders who have stretched out a hand to them. belgrade also needs to work constructively to settle the issue. in the feasibility study for serbia and montenegro, we made it clear to belgrade that the country’s eu aspirations are linked to a successful resolution of kosovo’s status. to sum up, although there are difficulties and pitfalls on the western balkans’ road to europe, most countries are currently making steady progress. those countries struggling to reform antiquated economies, and to build modern societies based on respect for human rights and the rule of law, have, at the same time, to deal with the legacy of war. in this context i would like to highlight the importance of regional cooperation. good neighbourly relations and regional economic cooperation are the very essence of the european union. they are the catalyst for stability, reconciliation and normalising political relations. this is a major challenge to the countries of the region and to the european union. it is a tall order, but i am confident that we are on the right track. the less we need to focus on stability and security, the more we can channel our resources to economic and social development, which is rightly underlined in the samuelsen report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu should be the focus of the european union's foreign policy and the eu should be the consistent completion of what it started in the mid-1990s. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we heard today that it worked, at least in advance. i have just heard from the commissioner that the commission is now finally going to draw up a paper on kosovo, which i welcome. mr schmit also said that they would try to back up a stronger interest in this region with action. but we also have to ask ourselves: what are these countries doing? the two previous speakers have already said this: the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the albanian people are not the only ones who are suffering from the consequences of the war. the government there should finally take governance seriously. it would have to fight corruption, it would have to implement laws. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only then will macedonia become a factor of stability in the region. in bosnia and herzegovina, the commission and the council should have already exerted influence on local politicians to change the dayton treaty in order to create a functioning commonwealth. in its present situation, bosnia and herzegovina will never be able to join the european union. the cooperation with the hague tribunal is still not sufficient and the return of refugees to republika srpska remains deficient. as regards serbia, montenegro and kosovo: the state union between serbia and montenegro is fragile. the question of its existence or dissolution should soon be settled. belgrade and pristina must find a solution for kosovo under the auspices of the un and the eu as soon as possible; that should be possible, because everyone wants to join the european union. i very much hope that croatia will be able to convince the monitoring mission that it is fully cooperating. all countries have major problems in fighting corruption, all have problems in the judicial system, they lack administrative capacity - we have to help. we should be more committed and more consistent in our aid to all these countries. we should include them in the pre-accession instruments so that they develop a functioning economy and functioning democracies. we all have something of it, but above all the youth in these countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. croatia is not a country in the western balkans, as the documents claim, but is the only central european country, along with switzerland and liechtenstein, that is not yet part of the eu. it meets the criteria and we should start negotiations as soon as possible. but there is more than enough to do in the real balkans. bosnia and herzegovina must be transformed into a strong, equal federation of three peoples through constitutional reform and the dictatorship of mr ashdown must be ended. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the situation in kosovo is not further complicated by the fact that the kosovo crisis has not yet been resolved. any other approach is illusory. serbia and montenegro must be subject to clear human rights monitoring; i am afraid that the commission's decision this week was based on too many illusions. in macedonia, the name issue must finally be settled. i would appeal to my really dear greek colleagues to finally abandon their petty carism on this issue. we have francs in bavaria. there is frankfurt. no one would argue that france should therefore change its name to "republic of paris" because it could otherwise lay territorial claims on frankfurt or franconia. let's stop this nonsense in the 21st century. we must draw clear boundaries of the eu. mr langen is one of those who always points out that we would be stretching ourselves too far with turkey. but south-eastern europe is clearly europe. we must concentrate our efforts to stabilize south-eastern europe and also the central european country of croatia, which is as little a part of the balkans as the beautiful bohemian town of kaden on the eger, as munich or altenkirchen in the land of victory. it is central europe, it must be integrated, and we can also stabilise the neighbouring balkans.
president of the council. i would first like to congratulate parliament for taking the initiative in this debate. indeed, as the commissioner and i have stressed, the situation in the western balkans is of vital interest to our union. i note that we have in fact no great alternative to the european perspective. the european perspective is the only instrument we have to convince these countries to change, to make reforms, to find the path of europe - which means first of all the path of european values - to find the path of reconciliation. it is not absurd to tell these countries to find a way of reconciliation, since we ourselves set the example of this reconciliation 60 years ago. so i think that it is a fact that we are tired of enlargement. indeed, our populations are wondering about these permanent movements towards enlargement, towards new membership. but it must be explained that it is in the interest of all of us to find peace, stability and economic development in this region. someone mentioned the record rates of endemic unemployment in kosovo and bosnia. we are faced with a situation which, at first sight, seems intractable. why is there unemployment? there is unemployment because there is no economic development; there is no economic development because there is no private investment; there is no private investment because there is no trust and no security: no one invests in regions where the future and development are uncertain. we have a fundamental mission, therefore: to consolidate security, to bring security, to convince these populations that their future lies in security, in reconciliation, in respect for minorities. i believe that this is how we can create a positive dynamic, which is first and foremost an economic dynamic. indeed, until there is an economic start in this region, we will not have a truly stable peace. this is an important mission for the european union. i thank your parliament again for having noted and recalled the urgency of action in this region in all the aspects which have been listed and described. last word: yes, there is a threat of extremism. we have in europe a possible hotbed of radical extremism, particularly islamist extremism. in this respect too, prevention is necessary and the only prevention is dialogue: it is necessary to show that this part of europe belongs to europe, that it shares european values, even if it also belongs to the muslim faith. so i think that is an important signal that we are sending today and that we must continue to send in the years to come.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to join minister schmit in congratulating parliament on taking the initiative to hold this debate. it is extremely important that you hold this debate at this critical moment to help keep the western balkans on the agenda of the european union and of the international community, both of which have quite a number of other issues to tackle. it is important, therefore, that we discuss the western balkans and try to improve our policies in that region. one of the issues raised by several speakers in this debate was enlargement fatigue and i think this is a very serious challenge. we must bring the peoples of the european union along with us on our road to enlargement. our next steps, therefore, must be gradual and carefully and prudently managed. it is also important to underline that enlargement is in itself a security policy. the legal and political reforms, as well as the economic development stimulated by the eu perspective, will reduce instability and conflict, for instance in the western balkans. we need to have a dialogue and explain this point to our citizens to ensure that the future of the western balkans is not held hostage by unwarranted fears. i shall try to provide answers to two questions specifically raised here, the first concerning the name of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the second a question regarding the constitutional complexity of serbia and montenegro. as regards the name issue, the commission supports the efforts of the united nations for a mutually agreeable solution to the name issue between greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. we hope that the recent proposals by the un facilitator, mr nimetz, will contribute to this objective. a solution to this bilateral issue would clearly contribute to regional stability in the western balkans at a delicate moment. concerning serbia and montenegro, the commission has deliberately developed a twin-track approach in response to the complex structure of the state union of serbia and montenegro. this allows both republics and the state union to make progress in their respective areas of competence. the state union is mainly responsible for foreign policy and security issues, while the republics are responsible for most aspects of economic policy and trade relations. thanks to this twin-track approach we have recently been able to sign the bilateral trade agreement in textiles with serbia, which is important for investment and employment in that republic. we will report on the progress of serbia and montenegro through this approach in the commission’s annual report on the stabilisation and association process this autumn. the constitutional framework should be respected but at the same time should not hinder the country’s progress on its european road, if it meets other conditions for pre-accession and later perhaps accession. finally, one of the biggest challenges we face in refining our policies on the western balkans and bringing the countries closer to the european union is the weakness of the states in this region. they are chiefly weak states. if the state cannot ensure that the basic daily needs of its population are met, it certainly cannot rise to european standards. it is as simple as that. we must, therefore, find better ways of building institutions in the region, such as the approach to building member states rightly advocated by the report of the international commission on the balkans, which was published yesterday. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr samuelsen, the committee on foreign affairs and the parliament, and i very much look forward to working with you for stability, progress and prosperity in the western balkans.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the annual report is intended to provide a proposal for changing and improving cooperation between the council and the commission and parliament, particularly as we are in the first year of a new legislature. we are aware that foreign, security and defence policy is generally the responsibility of the executive and that parliament can essentially exercise control here and is also given possibilities of influence by means of the budgetary powers. it is in this latter area in particular that it would be helpful for the commission and the council to move away from the previously a posteriori approach and to involve the european parliament at an earlier stage. the european parliament should not be informed only after something has been done, but it should be involved in the planning and development of strategies so that the will of this house can be taken into account in this way, since then the business becomes easier for all sides because the way forward has been found at an earlier stage. it is important for us in the european parliament to pursue foreign policy with the same priorities as before. the old adage applies: war expresses the failure of politics. it can only be a last resort. this is why it is important that we strengthen the preventive approach of our policies and significantly increase our capacity in the areas of prevention and crisis management. this is also the approach of the european union, which is very clearly expressed as an objective in the draft constitution. we should make our position clear here, to win the popular vote, but also to develop strategic positions. this leads to very practical considerations about where we need to put our priorities. it is the conflict in the middle east that is leading us to work more closely with the quartet, the americans, the russians and the un, not only to help the palestinians and the israelis and to achieve peace, but also to tackle the alibi for terrorism on a large scale - the second major objective - more effectively. the solidarity arrangements in the area of assistance obligations in the constitutional treaty are also of great importance here: how can we as the european union respond to and continue to combine the threat to external and internal security with new instruments? we must ensure that in these areas issues of non-proliferation, such as iran and north korea, are given high priority if we are to succeed in giving this issue any credibility at all. but we must also see that the european union - which is in itself a security policy concept, because it binds states together so that they never go to war against each other again - brings this instrument more and more into the neighbourhood policy, and we must see that we do not stand by the classic principle of the neighbourhood policy as we have been doing in recent years. the limits of europe also have something to do with the capacity of the european union to act. that is why we must ensure that the countries in our neighbourhood, those we want in our ports, those who are important to us and those we want to help develop and stabilise democracy, have a second option in addition to full membership, a european economic area plus or whatever you want to call it. we must find such a multilateral approach so that we can give ukraine or other countries an answer today, not in 15 or 20 years' time, on how they can improve. we hope that the council and the commission will be more imaginative and less concerned with day-to-day politics, as has often been the case in the past. we have a new approach here, commissioner, through your office, to find a starting point. two final points: i think it's good that there's a broad majority in this house that supports the continued arms embargo on china as long as human rights are not respected, as long as a country makes laws that legitimize war. as long as we see the transatlantic relationship as being in danger, we must reach an agreement here. (applause from the centre) in addition to the approaches of multilateralism, as in relations with the united states, we should build on a partnership with clear objectives for a transatlantic market by 2015. i would like to expressly express to a number of applicants that i, as a german, would like to expressly support the proposals of the various groups to seek a seat for the european union on the security council. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to give two examples to start with. in the committee's deliberations, our colleague thomas ilves asked what would happen if a terrorist attack of the same magnitude as that in madrid took place in one member state of the european union and it turned out that the security authorities of another member state of the european union were aware of the preparations but were unable to inform the authorities in the other country. we would be facing a real crisis of legitimacy in the european union. the second example is that the european union has taken over from nato the command of the forces in bosnia-herzegovina. for the first time, it is also possible to demonstrate how the european union can implement a security policy in this field and to gain practical experience in this respect. many people - and i have noticed this from a number of conversations in my constituency - are convinced that if we as europeans were to get out of as many things as possible, evil would not, so to speak, pass us by. the european union needs a security strategy. the committee therefore welcomed and developed by a large majority the document drawn up by javier solana and the support given to it by the governments. the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process, and the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process. first, a comprehensive understanding of security problems and their many possible causes, such as human rights violations, poverty, disease, etc., rather than a reduction to the military aspects. the security strategy is first and foremost a political concept which goes far beyond the military aspects. secondly, the commitment to international law and the principles of the united nations charter. thirdly, the strengthening of the international order through effective multilateral structures and, at home, in taking all the necessary measures to counter the terrorist threat, to safeguard the fundamental rights of citizens. in view of this, it is not necessary to hide one's shame when one says: yes, the european union too wants to acquire military decision-making structures and military capabilities. the particular advantage of the security strategy is that it provides for an appropriate combination of civil and military crisis response options, depending on the situation. this approach was opposed in the committee by two very different parties. there were once those who could only imagine the european union as a subdivision of nato. and then there were those who denounced the creation of new forms of organization and capacity under the banner of militarization. the two extremes had in common that they used this argument to work and agitate against the european constitution. but there was a large majority in the committee supporting the security strategy. it includes instruments such as the situation centre, the civil military planning cell, the creation of the combatant units or the defence agency. these are not alternatives to nato - most eu member states are also members of nato - but they do give the european union new options that it did not have before. it is only in this way that it can develop into an equal partner with the united states on the other side of the atlantic, for example. there is still a lot to do. we have not yet developed a coherent concept of how the civilian crisis response forces should be organised. there is a lack of permanent air transport capacity. there is a lack of permanently available forces, and there is a lack of sufficient communication and intelligence capabilities. this report is intended to help the european parliament - also in the sense of what mr brok said in his introduction - to have a say in the future design and practical implementation of the european security strategy in a dialogue structure with the council. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i should like to thank mr kuhne very warmly for his broad-based report. i believe it is of the utmost importance that this security strategy, as seen by the european parliament, is supported by the four largest groups in the european parliament - the greens, the social democrats, the liberals and my group. in this way we have a basis which would not have existed, for example, 10 years ago in this matter. the report is based on the security strategy devised by javier solana. the threats that javier solana has seen are also seen in the same way by the european parliament. the three biggest are certainly terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and conflicts in the neighbourhood, which also have a direct impact on the european union, because the flows of refugees then directly affect the citizens of the european union. what i and many others are missing in this analysis by javier solana is the defence of the homeland, which is usually the starting point of any defence policy. if we compare the attention paid to homeland defence in the united states with how little we hear about it in the european union, i think there is a deficit here that needs to be addressed. i think that there is a need for supplementary conclusions on what needs to be done. it is not that what is proposed here as a conclusion can be translated into concrete action. i therefore believe that it would be important for us to have a white paper on european security and defence policy next, with very clear content and timetables, which are a little clearer than what has been on the table so far. it is important that the crisis intervention force, which was decided in 1999 and was then a very virtual crisis intervention force, has now become a very concrete force: in macedonia, in the congo and now in bosnia-herzegovina. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and you, mr minister, speak quite casually of european troops, of troops of the european union - this is a development of undoubted historical importance. the commission has also been active in the field of the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. the european union's strength lies precisely in the civilian part of peacekeeping, where we also do more than the united states. that's a good idea. on the other hand, as we have seen in kosovo in the wake of the sudden unrest, we must also be reminded that our troops must retain the ability to intervene and also to act robustly when it comes to protecting minorities. these are two equally important and difficult tasks for our troops to tackle there. the combat troops being deployed now, some of whom we hope will soon be able to intervene and be available, even in the short term, need the best equipment, as we have seen during our visit to bosnia-herzegovina. these are peacekeeping measures that our troops are required to take. if we are to carry out peace-building measures, combat operations, then the fact that our troops have very different equipment will have a negative impact. we are asking that the european battle groups which are being set up now have as much common equipment as possible, that they be equipped with new developments as quickly as possible and first, and that this be given priority. we also need - as we were told on the spot - helicopters when large areas have to be secured and additional mine-resistant transport vehicles. the clearance of mines - we are told that it will take until 2010 for bosnia and herzegovina to be mine free - is proceeding too slowly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i congratulate mr kuhne on his report, which has been a very good one. i would also like to thank him for the constructive and open cooperation which has resulted in the broad support of the relevant groups in this house. the european security strategy is the road map for european foreign policy for the next few years and decades, but one which, while containing good answers, also raises a great many questions. a common foreign and security policy worthy of the name is still the goal, not the reality of europe. this report shows that the european parliament supports the council and the commission in their efforts to overcome the national egoisms which still exist in this area. the report's main message is that the classical notions of security no longer apply. what is internal security, what is external security? what crisis can we prevent successfully as a civil society? at what stage in an unpreventable conflict are we forced to make the leap from civilian to military processing? when can we start to consider the transition in the opposite direction after the end of a conflict without endangering the security of people, and what instruments do we need to do this? these are the questions we europeans must answer. this report does so wherever it can, by pointing out the great importance of the civilian-military element. that is why we support this report and will vote in favour of it. on all these issues, one thing is clear to us liberals: the principles of the un charter remain for us the central benchmark of all our considerations. that is why the alleged militarization of the eu, as claimed by the communists, is so absurd. but they must know, after their long experience in this field. this report is an intermediate step which makes it clear that we must develop our foreign policy at the beginning of the third millennium not only in terms of instruments but also in terms of concepts. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. if we defend our values, we must also respect them. i think that we should not have this debate in strasbourg, but in brussels.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to express my warm welcome to both reports on behalf of my group, the green group, and to thank you in particular for your cooperative work. i would like to make one point in relation to the council's opinion: the report by mr brok very strongly criticises the active cooperation with parliament. it will not be enough to simply inform us afterwards. i'm saying this before the constitutional debate. the european security strategy is not a statistical matter. we will have to keep reviewing where we are lacking, as we are still doing in the civil sector, or where we need to change course in the face of changing threats. but the credibility of the european security policy, the positive elements reinforced by the constitution, we will only be able to convey to the people if you cooperate with parliament. you won't make it against parliament. i'll give you the essential elements where we show that we're on the right track. the three european countries are trying to find a peaceful solution with iran on the question of proliferation, to strengthen the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, because these are the cornerstones of our multilateral policy. i would like to mention a second area which has been raised: the application of international law. anyone who still talks about militarization here is arguing against the constitution, ignoring the fact that we will have the charter of fundamental rights as part of the european constitution and thus also as part of european foreign and security policy, denying any progress, throwing us back to nice, throwing us back into a renationalization such as we are currently experiencing in germany, if germany believes that it can achieve a seat on the un security council on its own or that the china embargo will be lifted. this is not a common european security policy, but a relapse into a policy which we unanimously do not support in these motions for resolutions, but rather criticize. we europeans are taking new steps. we'll take civil and military responsibility. the question will be raised in kosovo in the foreseeable future. we will only be able to implement these instruments, which will ultimately help to bring about a bit of reconciliation in our societies and to stabilise europe, if we share the same objective with our societies and with the european citizens, namely a peaceful, multilateral objective, taking into account transatlantic cooperation, an objective which our citizens expect from us. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to take this parliament into account. without the support of parliament, you will not get the support of the european people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so that it doesn't get too uniform here, let's try a different position. the european security strategy states: 'in the face of new threats, the first line of defence will often be abroad.' the kuhne report is very much along these lines. the european security strategy is to be binding on all eu countries. the ess is designed to bring eu military policy increasingly into line with preventive war planning. the kuhne report calls for further steps to be taken to ensure that the eu has a global military intervention capability, using nato capabilities. the eu is to become - we have heard it said - a global player, primarily military-based. that is why my group has put forward a minority vote. on the one hand, it is claimed that there is no militarisation of the european union at all. on the other hand, everything is done to equip - the contributions have shown this - to design concepts for eu regional wars to secure raw materials. the eu's constitutional treaty, which will hopefully fail in france, the eu's security strategy and the european defence paper stand for a europe of armaments and future wars. you must take this criticism seriously. there's no point in arguing. it's falling on your feet.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to return to two of the remarks made by parliament in the report, namely on the foreign and security situation in east asia. i believe that the people's republic of china has considerably aggravated the situation in this area with the anti-secession law. we should reject that outright. the people's republic of china is unjustly trying to legitimize itself by the anti-secession law, to threaten and attack taiwan by military means. this is a violation of international law and is totally unacceptable. the 23 million citizens of taiwan have the inalienable right to decide their own future in a democratic way, whether they want to be reunited with the mainland or continue to live in a sovereign state of their own. the people's republic of china should be urged by us all to stop making threatening gestures and finally to open direct talks with taiwan on the basis of mutual recognition in order to relax relations between the two countries and to ensure peace in the east asian region. in this context - and this is a remark to the council representative - the arms embargo against china must not be lifted. the european council rightly decided in 1989 to impose an arms embargo on china, and we can see that human and minority rights have improved in china, but they are still not being sufficiently respected. the parliament has already stated on several occasions that the human rights situation in china does not correspond to the international standards recognised by china itself in terms of civil, cultural, religious and political freedoms. i hope, mr councillor, that you will take this to heart. the lifting of the arms embargo would be a completely wrong signal, especially at this stage, given china's continuing violation of human rights, and would also look like a reward for the anti-secession law.
president of the council. i believe that the current situation on the oil market, and in particular the level of oil prices, will encourage many players to invest in alternative and renewable energy sources. there will be a balance to be struck. we do know that the price of oil is due to certain economic developments in certain parts of the world and also to certain speculative movements. this will make renewable energy more attractive and, through these mechanisms, we may be able to exert pressure on oil companies and take initiatives to promote future energy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too believe that if we have a greenhouse gas problem, we must do something about it by using renewable energy sources, but also by using nuclear energy and saving energy. but if you ask what steps are being taken to promote wind, wave and tidal power generation and whether these new initiatives are being hampered by the influence of the oil lobby, then i ask you: what initiatives are being taken in the nuclear field and are these initiatives being hampered by the lobby in favour of renewable energy sources?
president of the council. the council has already had occasion, and i myself have had occasion on several occasions, on behalf of the council, to stress in answer to questions on the same subject that, while religious freedom is guaranteed in the constitution of the republic of turkey, certain conditions for the functioning of non-muslim religious communities, in accordance with the practices in force in the member states of the european union, must always be established. in its regular report for 2004, the european commission notes some progress made by turkey in this area but also acknowledges considerable shortcomings that need to be addressed, in particular with regard to the legal personality and property rights of non-muslim communities and the training of clergy. in this context, a major foundation bill is still under consideration by the turkish prime minister's office. the commission was invited to provide comments on this draft which is currently under review. the european council of 16 and 17 december 2004 decided that turkey sufficiently met the copenhagen political criteria for the opening of accession negotiations with that country. at the same time, the european council has made it clear that the full and effective implementation of the political reform process will continue to be closely monitored by the commission. the commission is called upon to look at all the issues of concern identified in its regular report and recommendation, including, of course, freedom of religion, and to report regularly to the council. can the council therefore assure the honourable member that it will continue to monitor closely turkey's progress in this area, in particular on the basis of an accession partnership setting out the priorities of the reform process, a revised text of which will be submitted to the council by the commission in the autumn? it can also assure him that, as in the past, the union will not fail to raise the outstanding issues in the various fora of political dialogue and in the bodies set up by the association agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this will be one of the most exciting and important questions of the year, and i would therefore like to ask the presidency of the council whether it would not be sensible if the council also reported to the public and the european parliament at certain intervals on the concrete progress of the negotiations it has made. the negotiations are not conducted by the commission, but by the member states. we would like to be kept regularly informed of progress on the important issue of church property and active religious freedom.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to ask you, after the four speakers who have spoken so far, one more question on the subject. we have had the new transatlantic agenda with the united states since 1992, and within that agenda there are dialogues that work differently. we know that the business dialogue works very well, and the consumer dialogue works very well. but we have been observing for many years that there are great difficulties in the dialogue which should bring workers together, namely the so-called labour dialogue. there are a number of reasons for this. it is partly due to the different traditions on the american and european sides. i would urge you to consider again, together with the council and also the commission, what you can do to support this dialogue in preparation for the next summit, which will take place in the summer. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council and the commission, and that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council and the commission. i would think that this is a good case to refer to to try to revive this dialogue. i would also recommend that the problem be raised in the context of the business dialogue and that we speak directly to the companies and see if there are no possibilities of agreement, so that the oecd guidelines you have mentioned are actually put into practice and not by different states - in this case kansas, but it could have been any other state - are overruled. i think this is extremely important, because if we are in a globalised context and we have competition which is certainly not going to be easier but more difficult at international level, then it is right that at least the countries operating within the oecd actually comply with the code. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. on the second point you have raised, namely that the commission and the council - as indeed parliament - have been urging for many years to intensify the discussion within the wto and also to talk about labour standards, environmental standards, social standards: it seems appropriate to me to raise this issue again in the current round - i know that this will be very difficult - and i can promise you that we will refer to this again in the context of parliament's resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to comment on the text of the green group's question and, apart from any possible violations of the wto, to put a few questions directly to the rapporteur. mr juncker, in your text you fear that the removal of trade barriers will lead to tax dumping. in the same text you mention subsidies which weaken the multilateral trading system. don't you think there's a correlation between high taxes and high subsidies? do you think that in a world without tariff barriers and the competition they create, social and environmental standards will automatically decline? are you afraid of competition because you mention it only in connection with the words 'harmful' and 'dumping'? what leads to prosperity and jobs? the exchange of goods and services in open markets without barriers to trade or rather closed markets with high barriers to trade? do you agree with me that only a competitive economy is capable of meeting high environmental standards? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am also interested in the commissioner's opinion on this.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i repeat: the commission has formal complaints against only one member state. the commission cannot act on the basis of things it picks up somewhere. the commission's action requires a formal complaint. the rules are known to everyone in this house. i can only ask the honourable members who have spoken here of hundreds of cases of discrimination to encourage those who believe they have been discriminated against to lodge a formal complaint. the commission will investigate each case, because it is obliged to do so. i would ask you not to reproach me for not having received more complaints from the commission than from one member state. please do not doubt the truth of my words. if i say that we have only complaints against one country, then that is true. so make sure that those who feel discriminated against take the appropriate paths, and then action will be taken. the commission has already taken the necessary steps against the member state against which the complaint has been lodged. i didn't say we were gonna do anything. we have already done so, and as a result of these steps these problems will be solved.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission is very grateful to mr krahmer for his report and for his unusual personal commitment to the recycling directive at first reading. i would first like to recall that the draft directive is based on the provisions of the directive on end-of-life vehicles, which was adopted by the european parliament and the council in september 2000. this directive sets very ambitious targets for the recycling and recovery industry to be achieved by 2015. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the objectives of the directive are met. we therefore call on car manufacturers to produce vehicles whose materials are more recyclable and recyclable, and to do so from the moment the vehicles roll off the production line. several of the proposed amendments are of political significance. the most important of these concerns the prohibition of the use of heavy metals. the report introduced an obligation to ensure that the manufacturer does not use heavy metals prohibited by the end-of-life vehicle directive. the commission welcomes this initiative. this will make it possible to apply the provisions of the waste vehicles directive in a systematic and uniform manner, rather than leaving it to the member states to adopt national legislation which may differ from one another. this will prevent the proper functioning of the internal market from being jeopardised. a central aspect of the directive, which has certainly caused some difficulties, concerns the data for implementation. this question too was finally settled. it is now proposed that the directive be applied in two stages. the commission agrees with this proposal. the commission can also agree to the administrative simplifications proposed by parliament, and i may perhaps summarize by saying that the commission fully supports the amendments proposed by parliament and welcomes the rapid adoption of this text.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues on the committee on the environment, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for their good and constructive cooperation. in the eu, 15 million cars are derailed every year. the car industry is one of the most important economic sectors in europe. it creates jobs, it drives innovation and it is central to our competitiveness. but cars also produce waste, and that's what we're talking about tonight. ten million vehicles are scrapped in europe every year. the fact that cars are no longer piled up and spoiling the landscape as in the past has something to do with the high recyclability and recyclability of an automobile. the aim of the vehicle type-approval directive is to lay down provisions to ensure that cars and light commercial vehicles are designed to meet the minimum reusability, recyclability and recoverability ratios set out in the altauto directive. the altauto directive sets binding targets for manufacturers. from 2006 onwards, at least 85% by mass and from 2015 onwards at least 95% by mass of a car must be recoverable and reusable or recyclable. in particular, the 95% target from 2015 is a very ambitious target, because it would mean that the car of the future would produce almost no waste. the achievement of this objective will depend not only on the use of certain materials by manufacturers, but also on the further development of recycling technology and the definition of recyclability. the recyclability of cars and the prevention of waste are important environmental policy objectives in europe. but cars still account for a staggering 1% of the total amount of waste in the eu. the prevention of waste from cars is particularly well regulated in the eu, alongside packaging, electronic scrap and batteries. now, to the main points. the commission has put forward a very formal proposal for a directive. we had to improve on some points in parliament. after the vote in committee and a successful trilogue, we have prepared a compromise package for agreement at first reading, supported by the three major groups in this house. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. the amendments we are proposing, which we will be voting on tomorrow, are aimed primarily at improving the implementation of the directive, without calling into question the environmental recycling objectives. type-approval should be practicable and as cost-effective as possible for all parties, for the competent authority in the member states and for manufacturers. in addition, important aspects of good practice in type approval have been included. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. new models are cars already on the market in the eu - currently around 600 - while new types are cars that will be on the market in the future. that's about 100 a year. priority should be given to testing new types. the commission's original proposal, which envisaged testing all types in the eu within 36 months of the entry into force of the directive, is not feasible for both the authorities and the manufacturers. the testing of new types must be given priority to ensure that all new types that will be introduced in the eu in the future meet the binding objectives of the altauto directive. the commission's proposal of 36 months should therefore apply to new types. the existing models will then be tested successively. we have agreed in parliament and with the council on 54 months. this corresponds to the arithmetic mean between the commission's original proposal and my original proposal of 72 months, which corresponds to the life cycle of an average car. the definition of the representative vehicle is another point. it is in line with good practice and to avoid misunderstandings when the type is chosen by agreement between the authority and the manufacturer. the representative vehicle is the vehicle which is the most difficult to recycle. as regards the ban on heavy metals, i am glad that we have been able to agree to include the reference to the ban on heavy metals in the pre-test and not in the type-examination itself. because it doesn't belong there. i am of the opinion that the commission was right not to mention the prohibition of heavy metals in its original proposal, because the prohibition of heavy metals is already covered in other legislative acts on several occasions. we had a problem with an amendment from the council which came to us just before closing time, so to speak, and which was to open another back door to the comitology procedure. the european parliament has fought in the altauto directive to ensure that amendments to the directive are considered legislation and not implementing measures. we therefore could not accept that technical adjustments to the altauto directive could be made without this parliament. i am glad that the council and the commission have finally agreed to this in the trilogue. this is a step in the right direction towards greater democracy and transparency in the european legislative process. in conclusion, let me return to the subject of regulation. the eu has an extraordinary level of regulation on the automobile. we must always bear in mind that, when we adopt legislation, it must be implemented far from brussels and strasbourg. we must think of the companies that are ultimately affected by this. commissioner verheugen, i would like to speak to you personally. i particularly welcome your initiative on impact assessment and am pleased that as commissioner for industry you have rediscovered your liberal roots. it is important that new directives and regulations should be subject to a competitive test in the future, particularly in the field of environmental and consumer protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is not affected by the pollution of the atmosphere. commissioner, i take your word for it and thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i note that the members of parliament have one more man on board than the commission team because of the presence of the president-in-office. that's amazing tonight, after all. the report has been presented very clearly and comprehensively by mr krahmer. i do not want to repeat this in detail. i would just like to say that the amendments are the beginning of a joint report, because we told mr krahmer that we had reached an agreement with the council and the commission through joint discussion, which is the result of these amendments, which are the essence of this report. i am sure that we will find a large majority for this report tomorrow, because it bears the signatures of the three major groups. this directive builds on the altauto directive and is a prophylactic measure for the automotive industry to ensure recyclability for the future. if you can recycle or reuse 95 percent of a car, that's a huge success. if i remember the first discussions in the early 1990s, this is a quantum leap. i am also very grateful to the automotive industry for its contribution to the development of this directive, because it is important to communicate with this industry, which is of enormous importance to europe, in order to guarantee long-term competitiveness. i am also sure that our importers from south-east asia, but also future importers such as china, will have to follow and apply these rules in the future. it is becoming difficult enough to implement and monitor these preventive measures there, but this is an important signal to remain competitive with the european automotive industry as a whole.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the honourable members for the question, which allows me, on behalf of commissioner figeľ, to update the european parliament on the state of play of the ongoing negotiations for a unesco convention on cultural diversity. this follows parliament’s request to be kept informed of the discussions on this issue within the ambit of unesco. the oral question and the motion for a resolution on unesco follows on from parliament's report and resolution on the safeguarding and promotion of cultural diversity and the role of the european region, and the international organisations such as unesco and the council of europe. these were adopted on 2 december 2003 and 14 january 2004 respectively and the rapporteur was mrs christa prets. both texts had called on the commission to inform parliament regularly, and in particular the committee on culture and education, of the negotiations taking place in unesco. the commission responded to the invitation positively. following the provisional unesco timetable for the negotiations on the future convention, the intergovernmental negotiations were launched in september 2004, and the negotiations on substance started in december 2004, with the first meeting of the drafting group. a few weeks after the end of the drafting group meeting, the commission accepted parliament's invitation to take part in a mini-hearing on the unesco negotiations. this meeting was held on 25 january 2005 with members of the culture committee, with mr schmitt in the chair. it gave rise to a substantial discussion with the commission and the luxembourg presidency on the current negotiation process. the commission remains available to take part in similar meetings in the future. the culture committee has already envisaged one such meeting for later this month. negotiations are well under way in unesco. from an eu point of view, the last negotiating session, in february, took place in a good collaborative spirit, on the basis of a code of conduct adopted by coreper on 27 january 2005. the unity of the eu's representation has been strictly respected throughout the session on the basis of common positions established through numerous community coordination meetings. with a single voice, the european union has become a reference for the debate and a major partner in the negotiation. however, the commission’s observer status in unesco entails numerous restrictions that limit its ability to negotiate. the european union has thus introduced a request for full participant status for the european community in this negotiation, and this will be discussed at unesco in april. although the february session has not been able to produce a new consolidated draft convention, the overall results of this negotiating session on substance are positive in relation to european union expectations and positions. the general trend resulting from the plenary debates is in line with the european union's common positions, including the articulation with other instruments. the april session of the unesco executive board will have to confirm the convening of a new intergovernmental negotiating session, provisionally scheduled for 25 may to 4 june 2005. it will also discuss the request made by the european community for a reinforced status in the current negotiations. the main next steps in the provisional timetable for the negotiations in unesco are as follows. the spring executive board will be held on 18-28 april 2005. notably, this session will discuss the request from the european community for a reinforced status in unesco for the purpose of the current negotiations on the future convention. the next session of intergovernmental negotiations is scheduled for 25 may to 4 june 2005, while the autumn executive board is to be held on 13-29 september 2005. finally, the general conference is to take place on 3-21 october 2005 when, on the basis of the provisional timetable, the convention on cultural diversity should be adopted. on behalf of commissioner figeľ i wish to thank parliament, and in particular the culture committee, for its early and active involvement in the unesco negotiations, and for its general support for the commission in this process.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is an economic and values community, and that is why we call for - and have already secured this in the treaties - a functioning internal market, but at the same time and with equal rights, the safeguarding of cultural diversity. the safeguarding of cultural diversity in the european union is not directed against the member states but expressly means the safeguarding of cultural identity in our member states. but only together - within the european union and within unesco - can we safeguard this cultural diversity worldwide. we call on the member states and the european commission to meet three key requirements for the negotiations. firstly, the negotiations in unesco should be concluded in time for the next round of negotiations on world trade law in the wto and the gats. the october 2005 date is crucial because otherwise we are at a disadvantage in the commercial law and a legal instrument of unesco is in danger of being delayed. secondly, we need an effective instrument. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. thirdly, we need a european union which takes cultural diversity seriously in its own legislation, that is to say, which does not subsume it under economic law in the services directive, but which excludes audiovisual services from the draft services directive, in order to remain credible and negotiable also in relation to unesco. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to stress that the crucial political basis of this proposed convention is the idea that art and culture have a dual character. we are dealing with commodities, but art and culture are never limited to commodities, but are always carriers of meaning, identity and aesthetic expression. this is the crucial point, and it is why they cannot be subjected to the logic of the market and liberalisation. this is true of the pluralism of the mass media, and it is particularly true of the protection of public service broadcasting, which guarantees a special quality and aims to provide access to as many people as possible. such thinking is threatened by a pure market and liberalisation logic. that is why it is so important that we succeed in securing the political backing of this convention for the protection of cultural diversity. i too would like to stress that it is absolutely essential that we conduct the negotiations strongly and unitedly and that the european member states really speak with one voice. internally, we must ensure that parliament is involved and that we are involved in defining a clear mandate. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we need an effective legal instrument so that our protection agreement does not fall back on the logic of the market and become subordinate. what we want for the world outside must also be protected within the european union. the protection of cultural diversity must therefore be preserved in the services directive and these goods must therefore be excluded from it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the preservation and promotion of cultural diversity is an important task both within and outside the european union. the european parliament has always stressed this as a political priority. the most important democratic values such as freedom of expression, tolerance and intercultural dialogue are reflected in this question. these are values that must be protected. the convention we are talking about is an important instrument of international cooperation for the protection of these cultural values. we need a mandate and a clear position on the international stage to be able to prevail there. globalisation is a threat to cultural diversity and media pluralism. this convention also provides a legal framework for national governments to take the necessary measures to preserve and, where necessary, promote cultural diversity. this convention is not a protectionist instrument, as we often hear, nor is it a blank check. but it improves international exchange of cultural goods, and it promotes diversity. we are not here to crusade against the wto or - plainly - against america. we simply want the convention and the wto and gats negotiations to be complementary. right now, it's like a david and goliath war. we must strengthen david so that he can survive this fight in the interests of our cultural diversity, which we have to protect. we must therefore have a common approach within unesco so that we can prevail in the gats and wto negotiations. i would like to stress what mrs hieronymi and mrs trüpel have said: we must also ensure that the services directive excludes audiovisual goods within the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to follow mr samuelsen. if we agree to this request, i would ask my colleagues to say yes to amendments nos 16 and 20 instead of no, because it is a question of substance and not of the name.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the updating i am proposing is available to all members. it is a replacement of paragraph 8, namely: ... report of the high-level panel on threats, challenges and change presented to the un secretary-general on 1 december 2004 with ... report presented by the secretary-general of the un entitled in larger freedom: towards development, security and human rights for all on 21 march 2005. it is a simple upgrade. since we are here - mr samuelsen has raised the name problem in relation to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia - i would point out that this problem does not appear in the text to be adopted. it would appear in the explanatory statement at the most. but it's not decided here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make an oral amendment. we are not concerned with a fundamental contradiction, but with the need to emphasize the need for closer cooperation with the americans. we not only welcome the fact that cooperation exists in the field of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, but we also want to make greater efforts in view of the non-proliferation conference this year. the non-proliferation strategy is an essential element of the european security strategy. we also want to call for greater cooperation with our american partners to strengthen the non-proliferation instrument in the current debate on the issue of non-proliferation in relation to iran.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur's proposal reads: 'welcomes existing cooperation with the united states in the fields of non-proliferation'. our proposed wording is: expresses its wish for stronger cooperation with the united states in the fields of non-proliferation.
in writing. the motion for a resolution on doping in sport has my full support. more than a decade ago, i was a competitive weightlifter myself. unfortunately, it never quite reached the dream figure of the bodybuilders, who were highly regarded by the women. today, i'm glad i only ate more protein, but never clenbuterol or anabolic steroids. the price for amateurs and professionals who take drugs to find sponsors, get financial support, and perhaps become famous is high. some of the top bodies of that era are no longer a sight to behold. late, but not too late, action was taken by the ioc's world anti-doping agency, which carries out intensive research, control methods and lists of banned substances. the national anti-doping agency in germany inspected 8,000 training camps and competitions last year. 20% of all uefa competitions will be doping tested. we need common international standards so that screened athletes are not disadvantaged against those who are insufficiently screened. the social ostracism of those who have manipulated the winning of their medals or awards for the sake of profit and glory is necessary. only a sport that is free of doping deserves recognition. athletes are only role models when they're clean.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. shah kibria, a former finance minister and member of bangladesh's largest opposition party, had barely finished speaking at a party event when he was torn apart by a grenade. three more people died, 50 were injured. with such attacks, muslim extremists have created a climate of fear. in some regions of the country, official bodies seem to be cooperating with them. this is an unacceptable situation. amnesty international and the united states acknowledge that members of religious minorities are being systematically intimidated, persecuted and arbitrarily imprisoned. since the last decision of the european parliament in november 2002 and since our visit as a saarc delegation in february 2003, there has been no satisfactory improvement in the human rights situation. after all, the government recently had two leaders of muslim criminal organizations arrested, their accounts frozen. we call on the government to step up its measures against extremists. bangladesh must also comply with its obligations under the international human rights conventions it has ratified in order to fulfil them. torture must be banned! freedom of the press and freedom of expression must be guaranteed! the fight against corruption must continue! only if significant progress can be made in this area will the terms of the 2001 eu-bangladesh cooperation agreement apply. the basis is and remains respect for human rights and the preservation of democracy. despite all the differences between the government and the opposition, they must at least agree to resume parliamentary work, which is currently blocked. both sides must work to create the conditions that prevent radicalism, paramilitarism and religious extremism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what is the connection between our penultimate subject, western sahara, and our present subject, lampedusa? in the early 1980s, this house held an urgent debate on north africa on a thursday afternoon. it was about western sahara and gaddafi's influence in north africa. this house was very critical of gaddafi at the time. the italian government, under prime minister andreotti, joined in this criticism, and as a result, gaddafi bombed the small island of lampedusa. it was then that lampedusa first became known worldwide. this shows the exposed position of lampedusa on the libyan continental shelf off africa. what is happening in lampedusa is not that an immigrant lands here and there, but that there is systematic, brutal trafficking in human beings. here, people are being smuggled through libya to lampedusa and then through lampedusa into the european union. and once they are on the european mainland, they can go unchecked to munich, strasbourg, the hague or wherever. if we do not want this systematic trafficking of human beings to continue, then we must act together here. that is why this issue is far too important to be allowed to be degraded into a cheap domestic political campaign issue. speaking of campaign categories, i'd like to say: i have been advocating for years that we should establish common refugee quotas, a burden-sharing between member states, and a harmonisation of standards for refugees and asylum seekers between member states, but above all fixed quotas in the sense of burden-sharing. who hasn't done anything for this cause? the prodi commission at the time! that is why the italian opposition leader, mr prodi, should turn around and look at his own door. this is not about cheap domestic politics. we should rather take up our european responsibilities.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission followed the events in lampedusa very closely and contacts were made with mr pisanu, the italian minister of internal affairs in order to obtain certain clarifications. to date the italian authorities maintain that all measures taken in respect of those that arrived irregularly on the island of lampedusa were not in breach of international obligations. they have promised to send the commission a detailed report on the events which took place, and also on the actions taken in order to guarantee respect for the fundamental rights of all persons concerned. the commission has encouraged the italian government to adopt measures that guarantee the right of each individual to submit an asylum request, and not to expel anybody while a decision on the request is pending. i would like to mention the council directive on minimum standards on procedures in member states for granting and withdrawing refugee status, which aims to provide a level playing field common to all member states. this concerns procedures to be applied to asylum-seekers and will be formally adopted by the council after parliament gives its opinion in june, thus paving the way for its transposition by member states into their national legislation. i would also like to underline that, in the absence of community legislation on the matter, the assessment of whether the italian authorities have contravened their international obligations under the geneva convention lies with the national jurisdictions. having said that, the commission will continue to follow this matter very closely. i emphasise that addressing the pressures underlying forced migratory movements, particularly in the mediterranean region, is a priority for the european union. it is thus the commission’s intention to continue working towards this objective, while at the same time ensuring that the rights of those in need of international protection are respected. the commission is aware of the concerns expressed by ngos and unhcr on libya’s respect of human rights, in particular as regards refugees’ protection. during the mission the commission conducted in libya at the end of 2004 concerning illegal immigration, issues relating to human rights and asylum were given particular importance. meetings were held with the gadaffi foundation and unhcr. the commission considers that such issues should be part of any possible future cooperation with libya on illegal immigration. i would like to emphasise that eu regional cooperation with countries generating migrants and refugees must be firmly grounded in the principles of respect for human rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i speak on behalf of my group. there's been a technical glitch. we had asked for a roll-call vote on the other group's motion on lampedusa in the final vote. this was lost for some reason. i ask you, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, to take this vote by roll call in the final vote on the resolution on lampedusa.
mr president, mr špidla, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. unfortunately, we have not yet sufficiently dealt with the tragedy of the roma, the sinti and the other peoples of europe. there was a time when europeans were free to move about and to choose their own way of life and culture. sadly, the 20th century has been marked by attempts to wipe out some peoples. during the german occupation of bohemia and moravia, there were two roma concentration camps in lety/south bohemia and in hodonin near kunstat in moravia. it is absolutely unworthy of us, in terms of human rights, politics, morality and human dignity, that a pigsty has been running for 40 years on the grounds of the former concentration camp in lety. in a place where thousands of people, including many children, have suffered and hundreds have died, such humiliation cannot be tolerated. of the approximately 6 000 roma and sinti who lived in the protectorate of bohemia and moravia in 1942, almost 600 returned from the concentration and extermination camps in 1945. that's just a tenth. since it is now not just a problem of the czech authorities but a european problem, we are calling for this pigsty to be removed and for a memorial to the victims of national socialism to be erected on the site of the former concentration camp. we had an exhibition here last week. i have the relevant documentation here. i would ask you to support this request and thank you for the good inter-group cooperation.
member of the commission. i would like to begin by thanking mr cabrnoch and his colleagues for this report, which contains a large number of suggestions and recommendations which the commission will take into account. i particularly appreciate that the report expresses support for greater cooperation to improve health and long-term care for older people in the member states, based on the application of the open method of coordination. at the end of this year, the european commission will adopt a communication with proposals to streamline and simplify the open method of coordination in the field of social protection. this will include health and long-term care, but also social inclusion and pensions, as noted in paragraph 32 of the report. we see healthcare as one of the key elements of these strategies that member states should develop in the coming years to address demographic ageing while maintaining a high level of social protection. your report is therefore very timely and will be an important contribution to the preparation of these proposals, as well as the national declarations on health and long-term care that we are now receiving from the member states. it is crucial that this work plan seeks to identify synergies with the current and future european public health strategy and the relevant community action programme. the close cooperation between commissioner kyprian and myself and our services will continue in this direction. of course, we have to take into account the primary responsibility of the member states in the area of health and long-term care. the european union's role is to support political bodies with decision-making powers at national level. your report covers a wide range of issues relating to social protection of public health and the free movement of persons and services in the internal market. all these key issues need to be addressed through appropriate instruments such as our legislative powers on the internal market and free movement, the public health action programme and the open method of coordination. on the one hand, the commission will endeavour to ensure as much coherence as possible between these individual instruments. on the other hand, the commission will continue to ensure an integrated concept of healthcare based on the aim of providing all citizens with adequate and impartial healthcare both in their own countries and when they move within the european union. ladies and gentlemen, this report is very extensive, very thorough, and let me comment on only one of its articles, namely article 7 on page 7 of the english translation. this article states that the report regrets that the commission intends to modernise social protection in the healthcare sector only in the light of the requirements of the stability pact. in my view, this formulation is not adequate because, as mr cabrnoch has already said, the core of all modernisation considerations is the trinity of accessibility, quality and long-term financial sustainability, i.e. long-term financial sustainability, however extremely important, is not the sole driving factor in all decision-making. ladies and gentlemen, as i said at the beginning, this report comes at a very opportune time and its content is clearly material to be taken into account in our further reflection and work. thank you, sir.
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr cabrnoch on his very good report. the implementation of benchmarking and the subsequent dissemination of the best practices identified are in principle and especially in the health sector a welcome approach. the open method of coordination, enshrined in the lisbon strategy, systematises and institutionalises this approach and commits member states to participate in the framework of timetables drawn up by the commission. this will, at best, give a boost to the overall process. in the worst case, it leads to an avalanche of data that cannot be controlled by the authorities involved. unfortunately, there are no long-term experience to assess this area of tension accurately. in the health sector in particular, these do not seem to be present a priori. in order to encourage the people at the base of the system to participate in a lasting exchange of views on health systems throughout europe, i would like to see the open method of coordination in the health sector introduced in a cautious way. in no case should there be massive data collection which cannot be processed by the authorities. a binding timetable seems to make sense in the context of the dynamics of the overall process. however, it is not possible to start a simultaneous and comprehensive grid-based data collection. in the health sector, i see a careful and gradual introduction of data collection, combined with intensive feedback with the actors, as the right way forward. in the interests of efficiency and sustainable acceptance of the open method of coordination, it must be possible to delete less important surveys and thus to obtain an optimal data portfolio from an efficiency point of view.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to emphasize that this report must be seen in the larger context of the following events and facts. firstly, the pressure of the lisbon process on health care and social protection systems to develop them into a service sector to be marketed throughout europe. secondly, the fact that the services directive is intended to make health care subject to european competition rules and the country of origin principle. thirdly, in the light of demographic developments, health systems - this has been emphasised in many places - are seen in many member states as an intolerable burden on the national budget, and there has been a marked derogation in terms of working conditions for health personnel. the commission has supported this development in its recent proposals. the report is a crucial step towards a decision on these matters between the commission and council proposals on the one hand and parliament on the other. the question is: should health care and social protection systems remain fully integrated into the provision of services or be subject to the competition rules of the internal market? the ep has a clear answer: basic health care is where health care must remain, and universal access for all, regardless of their wallet, must be guaranteed. the report also makes it clear that financial solidarity schemes must not be abandoned or undermined. i hope that the commission will take into account in its future proposals the details which in this report provide a very different answer to the challenge.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the right to health is a fundamental right. the member states are responsible for its design. our citizens have a right to an unlimited choice of healthcare and long-term care, no matter how much income they have anywhere in the eu! however, there are significant differences in the accessibility and quality of care and care. since 2003, the european union has been contributing to the promotion of public health through an action programme. this programme is a good basis for closer cooperation between our member states. the aim is to develop common objectives and then to develop national strategies. the challenges are: increased mobility of patients, increasing costs of new therapies and a longer life expectancy. thank the heavens! but far too little is being invested in prevention, so that diseases do not arise in the first place. the rapporteur has pointed this out. the health sector has a great potential for employment. it is rightly considered an important sector of the future, both for cost and innovation reasons. i am thinking, for example, of the home care service, which is becoming increasingly in demand. it allows the elderly and sick to be cared for in their own home environment, which is an important psychological factor and a major contributor to a longer and healthier life. the increasing life expectancy gives people a chance to contribute personally with their experiences that are so important to society. there are many obstacles to creating jobs in the health sector, but they are difficult to overcome, for example, in germany, the high cost of social security. health systems in the european union must be organised in such a way that they are affordable for citizens and relieve companies of excessive costs, so as to create more jobs. i agree with the rapporteur that prevention is of great importance, as is strengthening long-term care and the necessary exchange of information between member states for the benefit of patients.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first, a brief comment on the contribution of mr mann. mr mann, when you refer to the need to cut costs in the health sector, you cannot ignore the role of the pharmaceutical industry. i also think it is a shortcoming that this very aspect has not been dealt with at all in the present report. i would like to draw attention to another link, namely that between the shortage of doctors in the eu member states mentioned in the report and the working time directive currently under discussion. doctors in many hospitals in germany complain of poor working conditions and unbearable working hours. women in particular are also criticising targeted bullying, which makes it increasingly difficult for them to reconcile work and family life. the consequences are often overworked, stressed doctors, emigration to other countries or even abandonment of the profession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim is to distinguish non-active time from active standby time and not to pay for it; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the german lander's collective bargaining organization and individual lander ministers explain to us what they mean by non-active standby time: for example, times for general visits, bandage changes, infusions, injections that do not take place during regular working hours, routine work such as writing doctor's letters. i think this is a new kind of exploitation which we must not allow, and i ask my colleagues to support our amendments and to ensure that the commission's wording does not remain the same in the working time directive. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as a former rapporteur on this subject, i am naturally particularly pleased that mr cabrnoch's report still has such a great deal of continuity with our earlier resolutions. i would like to thank him for this. it is also a success of our house that the council finally decided last october to apply open coordination in health care and care for the elderly. as rapporteur for progress, i am confident that this programme will soon provide us with a tool to organise the much-needed exchange of best practice and to encourage mutual learning. finally, it is a question of supporting the member states in their reforms to modernise and strengthen health systems, with particular emphasis, of course, on social cohesion and the principle of solidarity. if the member states are to continue to guarantee the general accessibility, quality and affordability of health systems and care for the elderly, we need above all more prevention and more transparency. transparency is essential for the quality and optimal use of resources in health systems. the quality of medical care needs to be much more traceable. we must stop spending a lot of money on poor quality. patient organisations have a very important role to play in this context. they must be more involved in health policy decisions in the future. all member states also wanted to adopt a patient law or a patient charter. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary information to the public on the health and safety of older people. we should look together at strategies to better link health and care, to strengthen home care and to provide enough care facilities. (applause from the left)
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, the debate has proven what i think the next debate on health care will prove. health care is an extremely complex field, which is in a sense a frontier field, because after all, part of health care is anxiety and suffering and death, and these are things that leave no one cold. i would like to appreciate that the discussion clearly showed that the open method of coordination is considered to be the appropriate method for coordinating health systems in the european union and i note also that the remark was made that when applying this method, it is also necessary to consider its administrative and technical management and there is no doubt about that. i am in no way advocating collecting useless data and creating systems that are incapable of contributing to the outcome. mr mathieu, who asked a question which is probably based on a specific case, is no longer present. in general, as i understand the issue from this debate, the issue is that a person who has gotten into a medical situation has probably been treated against their will at a clinic that then demanded costs that were not covered by their insurance. it is not the commission's strategy to make such possibilities and cases appear easy and possible. i'll look into this case, get more specific information. ladies and gentlemen, the debate has once again shown that this report is of exceptional value, and let me quote just one more paragraph from it. it is paragraph 9 on page 7 that says that the report is of the opinion that population ageing is a problem and should also be seen as an opportunity within active ageing to involve more people with long and valuable experience in society and business. i think this paragraph shows how well-thought-out and balanced the text is.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr hughes, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2062/94 establishing a european agency for safety and health at work (com (2004) 0050 - c6-0014/2004 - 2004/0014 (cns)) (a6-0092/2005)
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, the origins and beginnings of the european union, apart from its economic integration objectives, already included the european coal and steel community, and the legal basis for occupational safety and health, which underlies most of the european union's legislative activities. there is no doubt that we have made progress in this area, there is no doubt that we can never stop in this area, because although the number of occupational accidents has fallen by 13 percent, the number of continuing accidents is still too high and some occupations remain disproportionately dangerous. i very much appreciate and note the overwhelmingly positive assessment of the agency in bilbao, which is my own view, and i look forward to a swift and positive discussion tomorrow of the proposals which have been put forward, which are based on the changes that have taken place and which respond to them in a logical and balanced way.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report (a6-0087/2005) by mrs ieke van den burg, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the state of play of financial market integration in the european union (2005/2026 (ini)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. with few exceptions, the measures of the financial services plan have already been implemented or are on track to be implemented. as far as we can see today, the financial services plan is a success. the question now is whether we need a follow-up plan, a post-fsap. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has dealt with this question in an own-initiative report. it is of the utmost importance that the european parliament expresses its opinion at this early stage. the european single market for financial services is still far from being completed. it is considerably behind the single market in goods. it is clear that there is still considerable progress to be made, particularly in the area of retail markets. on the other hand, there are various questions whether the financial services industry, after the efforts made, should not be given a break from regulation. this is also reflected in the own-initiative report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the text adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs is broadly balanced and is therefore supported by the liberal and democratic group in the european parliament. i would like to make two critical remarks. firstly, the work of cesr is undoubtedly welcome in a wide range of fields. however, it must follow clearly defined rules of the game. there needs to be a better coordinated process of interaction between cesr and the democratically elected european parliament. the decisions of cesr are of considerable importance and should therefore be closely and timely coordinated with those of the european parliament. secondly, the large banks are advocating a targeted and far-reaching harmonization. however, the extent to which this applies to all sectors of the financial services industry remains to be clarified. the commission should take this into account. the liberal and democratic group supports the open amendment tabled by the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to thank mrs van den burg very much for her work.
the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her constructive and good cooperation. you have produced a balanced text that opens up a view of the european internal financial market, which has been a major focus of the economic and monetary committee's work in recent years, and analyses well where we stand, but also looks ahead. we must now certainly look to consolidate after the very great flood of legislation; we must ensure that we implement it properly and draw the first lessons from it, and that we proceed with the next legislative projects step by step, but not with the same impetus as before. and we should be very careful about maximal harmonization, contrary to the wishes of some market players in europe. i see those who are now writing to us and demanding maximum harmonization - particularly in the field of consumer protection - saying again: too much harmonization! keyword: consumer credit directive therefore, market participants should be very cautious in handling this requirement. the position of parliament on the cesr has long been clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we expect and what happened at clearing and settlement cannot happen again. i would also ask commissioner mccreevy to pursue international standardization with the same sensitivity in an area where international bodies are increasingly introducing standards for large companies which are then also applied by mediumsized companies. we need democratic control here, and the commission is called upon to develop the appropriate institutions together with parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the case of european supervision, i think the basel 2 approach is right from the outset to approach it very carefully. we should be careful not to be too quick to create a level playing field at european level, forgetting that we also have regional and national level playing fields. one must not destroy the other. that is why i am in favour of a bottom-up approach, so that we focus on european regulation and supervision, building slowly from the bottom up; but it cannot be that this is forced from the top down.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the rapporteur, mrs klaß, for their contribution to this report at first reading. groundwater is an important natural resource, used mainly for drinking water as well as for industry and agriculture. it also has high environmental value as it interacts with surface waters and water bodies, and is therefore an important part of the water cycle that needs to be protected. prevention of groundwater pollution has been the subject of community legislation since 1980, most recently the water framework directive adopted in 2000. however, some gaps remain. there are no clear criteria for the definition of environmental quality objectives for groundwater, and in particular good chemical status. in addition, specific measures are needed to prevent and control pollution of groundwater. this was recognised when the water framework directive was adopted, article 17 of which calls on the commission to submit proposals to address the needs in question. in this context and after extensive consultation with the parties concerned, the commission has put forward the proposal under discussion today, which contains the following main elements: - a compliance regime for the assessment of good groundwater chemical status for a limited number of pollutants where community standards already apply; - the criteria for assessing the chemical status of groundwater on the basis of environmental quality standards to be established by the member states at the appropriate national, regional or local level, taking into account the specific characteristics of the natural groundwater conditions, the pressures detected and the pollution-related chemicals; - the criteria for determining the degradation of groundwater quality and for reversing pollution trends; measures to prevent or reduce the direct and in particular indirect discharge of dangerous substances into groundwater. the proposal contains clear specifications which will ensure that the environmental objectives of the water framework directive are met in respect of groundwater. the proposal also strikes a satisfactory balance between issues which need to be addressed at community level and those which are better left to the member states.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. water is life, and groundwater is our largest reservoir of fresh water and therefore of drinking water, as 60% of drinking water in the european union is treated from groundwater. groundwater is not only an important resource for our drinking water, but it is also essential for agriculture, industry and our ecosystem. in all our efforts to keep our water, and in particular our groundwater, clean and to restore it when it is already polluted, we must - also at european level - strike a sensible balance between the demands of water management, the concerns of agriculture, ecosystems and the resources available for water treatment and restoration in the member states. since it is very difficult, very time-consuming and, in particular, very costly to clean up polluted groundwater, the precautionary approach and the protection of the groundwater ecosystem are of particular importance. groundwater bodies, like rivers - at least on the european continent - do not stop at borders. the protection of groundwater is therefore a european task, since the different requirements in the member states inevitably lead to distortions of competition for industry and agriculture. i'm glad we're not starting from scratch. the european commission's proposal is a subsidiary directive of the water framework directive, which has been in force since 2000 and should be implemented in all member states by the end of december 2003. the first task of the water framework directive is to have all member states take stock of all water by 22 march 2005. if all the member states have done so in time - mr dimas can perhaps tell us about that - then every member state should be informed about the state of its waters and groundwater by now at the latest. the water framework directive sets objectives and measures for all community waters, including groundwater, both in terms of quality and quantity. the subsidiary directive now seeks to settle two outstanding points. first, the criteria for classifying groundwater as 'good' or 'bad' and second, the time from which action must be taken when deterioration is documented. in addition, the absence of regulations on indirect releases of pollutants from point and diffuse sources must also be covered. we must put all the relevant directives in context: the water framework directive, the priority substances directive, the nitrates directive and the plant protection products directive. the costs of the effort, implementation and monitoring must be sustainable without jeopardising the achievement of the goal of good chemical status of groundwater in all 25 eu member states. but this objective would be jeopardized if we accepted this so-called compromise amendment no 94 to article 6, which has now been tabled jointly by the pse, the liberals, the greens and the gue. this amendment changes the basic objective of not only my report but also the commission proposal and the water framework directive. it places the burden on the member states to draw up new lists of so-called dangerous substances and to carry out tasks which, according to chemicals policy, are now to be regulated in reach. it introduces a new class of groundwater bodies with the obligation to designate protection zones for very good chemical status and it requires a lot of new obligations of investigation, reporting and monitoring with the corresponding additional costs for member states and municipalities. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. as a corollary, it eliminates all the exceptions to article 6 (2) which are also considered necessary by water experts and which are also included in the 1980 groundwater directive. this amendment must not be accepted! the hard-won compromise of the water framework directive must not be changed by a subsidiary groundwater directive! we have two other amendments which propose uniform european groundwater quality standards for the main pollutants and indicators. in order to avoid distortions of competition and to achieve a comparable level of protection of groundwater in our member states, i believe it is very important that we, as the european parliament, call for such uniform european standards for the assessment of groundwater and its classification as 'good' or 'bad'. i would ask for support for motions for resolutions 111 and 112. we must also make a clear distinction between pollutants and indicators. i am trying to make a clear distinction here because sulphate, chloride and aluminium are not pollutants, but they are important indicators of the chemical state of groundwater and the possible presence of certain pollutants and contaminants. it is impossible to monitor all the pollutants that one can think of, and several hundred or even thousands of pollutants at any one time. finally, i would ask for support for amendments nos 89 and 90, which break down this list into indicators and pollutants. i ask everyone today to ensure that we have a good common european protection of our waters for our future. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank you, mrs handzlik, for your report, for your efforts to identify the challenges facing the applicant countries in particular in the process of completing the internal market. we have had a good cooperation and thankfully you have also taken up some of our suggestions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it is not that we have anything against an open and really functioning european internal market. on the contrary! it is one of the most important conditions for the european union to grow together. we have nothing against many passages in the report, but we do have some reservations about some of the conclusions. we were happy to celebrate with the applicant countries almost a year ago because it was imperative for most of them, after almost 60 years of separation, to find their place again where they naturally belong culturally and historically: in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we do not want unfair competition to be borne by highly motivated and committed workers from the new accession countries. we do not want these people to be fed with dumping wages and to enjoy only insufficient support from trade unions and social partners. we want quality standards, social aspects, environmental and consumer protection aspects to be gradually applied in all 25 member states. the commission's proposal for a directive on services is of particular concern to us at the moment, and we have tabled another amendment to that effect, in which we express our firm opposition to the principle of the country of origin. i know that this is contrary to the rapporteur's view. i would like to ask for your support in this regard.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you, mrs handzlik, for the report you have presented here, which is a really good piece of work. i would also like to thank you for the open way in which you have worked with the other groups. that is the way i want our cooperation in this parliament to be. i'm sorry to disappoint you. our group will not be able to agree to your amendment. as you said, we are in favour of the establishment of a services directive and the opening up of markets for services. but not in any way, but in a way that is really socially acceptable. mrs handzlik, we can agree with your report because you have made very important findings, for example in paragraph 5, where you state that the new member states have implemented the principle of mutual recognition in their legal systems. you also note that you are guided by the highest standards when harmonization is the key objective of the internal market. these are the phrases that are important to the citizens of the european union. i think that's what we need to achieve. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this is part of it. we have kept to it, you have kept to it, and i think that is very good. we social democrats can also support this report for a particular reason. we have in fact stated in paragraph 14 that, while we want a market for services, we also believe that these efforts must not be at the expense of social cohesion in the union and that a high level of consumer protection must be achieved. this is the task we have set ourselves, particularly in the context of the services directive, and we will continue to work on this in the future. i therefore congratulate you and i congratulate us as the european parliament for having this report on the state of affairs in the new member states, and soon also on consumer protection. but i also wish that this is the last time we do this. i hope that the next reports will cover the whole of the european union. that they do not distinguish between 'old' and 'new', but show the commonality.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. may i ask whether you would have also referred to former member ian paisley as the reverend throughout and whether the reverend would have had to stand up to the chairman?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to table an oral amendment. i ask that in all the paragraphs calling on the member states and the candidate countries or the council to act, the addition be made to the words 'and enlargement countries' because recital h expressly refers to kosovo, croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. this would be meaningless if these regions were not also called upon to take action. i would also like to make a second oral amendment, when we come to recital h.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to table an oral amendment again. it refers to recital h. i think that the way it is written in the original is simply not the way it is. it says that roma in kosovo, croatia and bosnia and herzegovina continue to be victims of ethnic cleansing. in order to clarify this, i propose to amend this recital. i'm reading it in english now. whereas a large number of roma were victims of war and ethnic cleansing and continue to be victims of persecution in parts of regions of the former republic of yugoslavia.
i would not have taken the floor if mrs stenzel had not attacked our group in a very improper and extremely uncollegial way. i 'll tell you two things: we respect the conscience of each and every one of our colleagues, particularly on the question of abortion and in this debate. there are few points in parliamentary debate which require this, which require that political groups leave individual members free to make their own conscientious decisions. there are few points! this is one of them! if you look at the vote, madam president, you will easily see that a 'no' vote by our group would have brought this report down. a 'no' vote by our group would have been sufficient to reject this report. we disagreed with some of the key points in this report, but we agreed with others. and because we knew that we wanted to help this report to reach a majority, but at the same time we wanted to make our scepticism visible, we abstained. if that's bad style for you, then you might want to reconsider whether you might have the wrong criteria.
in writing. i cannot agree with the report because it does not clearly identify the main criticisms in relation to human rights and completely excludes others. five examples: the abuse and torture by us troops in iraq is not named. the perpetrators are not explicitly mentioned. the demands for prosecution by the international criminal court are being sought in vain. the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal. the daily human rights violations are not named. there will be no condemnation of this violation of international law. the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. the over one hundred thousand iraqi civilians killed in the attack by the coalition of the willing are not mentioned in a single line. there is no condemnation of 'humanitarian interventions' or military interventions under the pretext of combating terrorism or 'armament war', all of which violate international law. the risks to human rights posed by the militarization of the eu, in particular by its treaty-based fixation in the eu constitution, are not addressed. the fact that the human rights situation in turkey is not mentioned at all is scandalous, and the fact that it is mentioned in a special report does not help. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected.
in writing. i cannot agree with the report. while many important aspects are mentioned - such as the often forgotten human rights violations in western sahara, illegally occupied by morocco - the report is generally characterised by a one-sided approach, which selectively denounces human rights violations, especially where it seems politically expedient, and does not shy away from distorting the facts. important human rights issues are not mentioned at all. some examples: 1. to talk about restrictions on freedom of expression in venezuela and to call on the government to take appropriate measures is downright grotesque, since the vast majority of the media is in the hands of the opposition. the assessment of the situation in colombia completely ignores the background of the serious human rights violations by the government and is unilaterally aimed at condemning the guerrillas. the european parliament's criticism of the cautious resumption of eu relations with cuba is completely incomprehensible from a human rights point of view. the commission is also aware of the fact that the turkish authorities have not yet taken any action to address the serious human rights problem in turkey. the fact that the report makes little mention of social and economic human rights and generally excludes self-critical remarks on the human rights situation in the eu and the role of the eu in the world is highly problematic and contrary to the principle of the universal validity and indivisibility of human rights.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. of course, my group would also like to extend a warm welcome to the sisters of robert mccartney in the european parliament. we would like to take this opportunity to thank you once again for the opportunity we had to meet you in april and to assure you that our group stands by you in finding your brother's murderer, in bringing justice to justice, in helping you to find your inner peace and in creating the social conditions which will enable different ideas to coexist peacefully. you'll always have us on your side in the fight against murder! my group supports the legitimate demand that the murderer or killers should be brought to justice and that witnesses should be called upon to give evidence, either to the police or to the ombudsman or to other institutions, which can help bring the murderer to justice. there can be no wall of silence in a murder. we all have to articulate our civil rights demands so that this is banished from any society. every institution, every association, every party, every individual has a role to play in ensuring that the rule of law prevails in the european union and, for that matter, throughout the world . in this sense, we all have a responsibility to ensure that in all countries on earth there is an open climate that makes it possible to enforce the rule of law and respect for the law. my group condemns any use of military force as a political tool. we condemn state repression and the use of military and police force to suppress democratic movements, as well as individual murders or terrorist attacks against private individuals or political groups and against private individuals and civil society structures, because this does not lead to overcoming socio-political problems but to their aggravation. my group believes that it is necessary to support the peace process in northern ireland and calls on all parties involved to continue and actively promote the peace process launched by the good friday agreement. my group has tried to deal exclusively with the robert mccartney case in its motion for a resolution and not to make a connection in advance between certain political groups to which responsibility is assigned. there is a difference between asking for something, doing something yourself, doing something on behalf of someone or being a member of an organization. that is why we have drafted our resolution in this way, and i think you can fully agree with its content.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr maaten, for his work on this difficult dossier. as regards the european commission's report on the 2004 bathing season, i should like to inform you that it will be published by the end of the month, and not only in greek but also in other languages. the commission's original proposal was to modernise the existing directive, which dates back to 1976. it proposed tougher standards for water quality, updating bathing water management schemes, streamlining monitoring requirements and improving public information. the commission accepted at first reading, in whole or in part, 22 of the 37 amendments adopted by parliament (commission position on parliament's amendments: see annex). the text of the proposal has been improved, but its basic structure and in particular the water quality standards have remained in line with the commission's original proposal. the council held discussions during the greek, italian and irish presidencies. it was quickly found that a significant majority of member states considered the commission's proposals for quality standards to be too ambitious and too costly. the council also made clear its desire to distinguish between quality standards for coastal waters and those for inland waters. other changes resulting from the council's discussion concerned the timing of the new standards and an alternative approach to dealing with short-term pollution and emergencies. the commission considers that many of the changes made to the common position improve on the commission's original proposal. however, on the question of the sufficiently high water quality standards and the establishment of a classification category, the commission would prefer to maintain its original proposal. however, after long and arduous negotiations in the council, it was found that the commission proposal would never gather the necessary support. the commission has therefore decided to support the common position which, while far from ideal, is nevertheless a significant improvement on the arrangements currently in place under the current directive. the modernisation of existing legislation, which is nearly 30 years old, is urgent. when adopting the common position, the commission made a statement to the minutes underlining its intention to fund an epidemiological research programme to examine in more detail the possible effects on bathing and in particular the health effects associated with freshwater bathing. the results of this programme are expected to be ready in 2008 and may allow the resolution of some issues on which the positions of the council and parliament are currently different. i would ask parliament to seek, with the assistance of the commission, to find a common position with the council on this matter as soon as possible. we urgently need a new directive with targeted management practices, more rational monitoring regimes and more effective communication with the public.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the bathing water directive of 1976 was the first to establish uniform minimum standards for bathing water in the european community. whereas the 1976 directive on the assessment of water quality still provides for 19 physical, chemical and microbiological parameters, the present council common position has reduced the test criteria to only two microbiological pathogens, supplemented by visual checks and measurements of the ph value in fresh water. in general, the commission's proposal for a new bathing water directive is part of the european union's overall water policy. it is based on the latest scientific findings, in particular on studies by the who. whereas in 1976 levels considered "sufficient" for an assessment level were still associated with a health risk for 7-9% of bathers, the who now requires levels allowing a maximum risk of 5% of disease cases among bathers. the council has introduced a new level of 'sufficient' in its common position, but it does not provide for any improvement on the 1976 standard. opinions are divided. commissioner, you said it yourself: the main argument is that the cost would be too high. however, many of the alleged additional costs are already incurred by meeting the standards of the water framework directive, the nitrate directive and the municipal waste water directive. the low additional costs actually incurred in meeting the higher quality standards are now being offset by reducing the social costs, simply because fewer people are ultimately sick. i personally support the introduction of the higher quality standards proposed by the who and the commission with immediate effect. you can't put off health care. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality standards are met. this should enable those countries which feel that they are particularly hard hit by the new quality standards to prepare themselves for the stricter standards for a longer period and to eliminate any problems. i would ask the house to support this compromise amendment.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur, particularly for his question as to whether we need such a directive at european level. 'if it is not necessary to make a law, then it is necessary not to make a law', montesquieu said several centuries ago. the bathing water directive is, in my view, a good example of a directive which europe can certainly do without. the constant quest for european harmonisation has resulted in over-regulation, which has led to the european union becoming increasingly distant from its citizens. conversely, more and more citizens are turning their backs on a european union that stands out above all because it is overlaid with a wealth of bureaucratic regulations. to put it more specifically in this case: any region with bathing or recreational waters has an existential interest in ensuring the quality of the waters in the event of penalties for absent visitors and tourists. the creation of a legal framework in this area should remain a matter for the member states. i do not see any relevance to the internal market. and i do not need to explain how bad the practical implementation of many environmental regulations in the eu is, given the abundance of infringement procedures. if europe wants to become more transparent for its citizens, we must also focus on what is necessary and feasible in the european context in the field of environmental and health protection. this means that if we have doubts about whether a task should be regulated at european level or not, we should leave the responsibility to the member states. i think that the bathing water directive is not one of the requirements of european integration.
a writer. the commission has already done so. the aarhus convention was adopted in 2001 and, unfortunately, only 17 european countries have signed it to date. as an interested member of the house, i would like to know and ask the commission: why have relatively few countries signed this convention? in particular, in the three pillars, some countries, including my own, may have the greatest problems with the question of 'access to justice in environmental matters'. i would like to know whether the commission and the council are aware of the need for sufficiently precise and clean negotiations and to what extent national parliaments are also involved in such conventions. i ask this because the question now on the agenda in kazakhstan is how we will be advised in the future on gmos, that is to say genetically modified organisms. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations. my question to the commission is: commissioner dimas, how will you prepare for the event in kazakhstan? what contacts do you have with the council? what information have you received on this subject from the member states?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i have to say on behalf of my group that we - as the previous speakers have already stated - consider the århus convention to be a very great step forward in environmental policy. the clear rules on participation rights, as provided for in the convention, create a situation in which citizens, ngos, but also public authorities can do a better job for the environment. i do not think that we in europe would have any insoluble problems if we were to link these rights with access to justice. i think our citizens in conflict are often more involved than the politicians admit. i'm not particularly concerned about the rationality of this argument. i am concerned at the moment, as we prepare for almaty, about how this issue, which concerns many european citizens and which they see as a problem, will be dealt with there. the chairman of the committee on the environment, mr florenz, has just raised the question: will genetically modified organisms be covered by the aarhus convention in the future or not? the government of moldova expressly requests this and wants it to be clearly regulated in an annex within the aarhus convention. why is it that an eastern european country, an eastern european government, is rushing in here? i think it 's perfectly clear: the american and european agro-industries are currently trying to find experimental fields in eastern europe for the release of genetically modified organisms, without any observation. i believe that we must ensure that if we want the aarhus convention to be credible, if we want to be taken seriously, that gmos are covered by the aarhus convention. this will certainly be the focus of attention in almaty. i believe that it is also important to clearly regulate the rights of participation for other areas, as has been suggested. i would also be glad if you could tell us, mr dimas, how the commission intends to deal with the third part of the convention, namely access to justice, and what your plans are for almaty in this respect.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to take up a few points which both colleagues have already raised and which you, commissioner, have also mentioned. we should try to provide for sensible strategic planning in these two difficult processes - the mercosur negotiations and how to link this in a meaningful way with the ongoing wto negotiations - especially in terms of timetable. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the negotiations are conducted in a manner which is compatible with the objectives of the treaty and the treaty of rome. my spanish colleague has already raised the question: how do you intend to achieve this link, including in terms of your resources? i mean, both negotiations are enormously time-consuming and complicated. it seems very difficult to me. the question therefore is: is it not more intelligent and more reasonable to allow for a longer period of time, a greater margin of manoeuvre in the negotiations, especially in view of the argument put forward by mr tannock that there are simply too many political power games going on here and that the negotiations between brazil and argentina are certainly also extremely complicated, including the question of negotiations with the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my second question concerns the texts. i read that you're planning a big ministerial meeting to make a breakthrough. this is a good process, it is always important that the political leadership is behind it. however, it seems to me - as is often the case in negotiations with the united states and the rest of the world - that you as the commission are still too much focused on the governmental level and very often forget the parliamentary level. we regret that time and again. here too, it might be appropriate to make use of the appropriate bodies we have - there is parliamentary cooperation between the european parliament and the mercosur countries. why not at least envisage a political under-stimulation - even if it may seem difficult - in order to create greater understanding, greater political willingness, and to signal to the political leaders in the respective countries that there is also a desire on the part of parliamentarians to support such negotiations.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore run the risk of turning the transeuropean transport networks into a transeuropean, permanent nuisance, and we have been doing so for some years. the transeuropean networks are a mandate of the maastricht treaty. it's not something you made up. this is a commitment we made together. since i have been working on this, from the christopherson group to the high-level group under karel van miert, a lot of hot air has been produced, but little has come out of it, little has been achieved in terms of projects. we were told at the time of the christopherson group that the projects were all ready, that they were practically feasible, that the excavator could come tomorrow. and not much has happened! i would like to remind you that we gave the final data for the projects in the council and parliament last year, in may 2004. if these deadlines cannot be met, then i would like the council - that is, not the council as a whole, but the member states - to say: we do not want this, we cannot do this. we're not going to realize it. then we must say goodbye to these projects. the council must therefore show more courage, more commitment and more honesty in this matter. and if that was a promise today, that the presidency, parliament and the commission would support the budgetary approach to the financial perspective, then that is a statement we can live with quite well.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in the last few days we have commemorated the 60th anniversary of 8 may 1945. but we also remember 1 may 2004, when the division of europe was ended. now europe can also grow together, which belongs together. this is the purpose of ten projects. but we also know that the 30 ten projects are a catalogue of national egoism. the bridge over the straits of messina has nothing to do with european integration, but it is part of these projects. we know that the financing of all 30 projects that are to be realised by 2020 amounts to about 600 billion. but we also know that we, on the eu side, if you assume a 20% share, it would take 120 years, according to the current financial planning, for the eu to finance its 20% share. we don't have that much time! it is a good thing that the council has agreed to a euro vignette, but we know that the toll is not enough to finance, for example, the brenner tunnel between austria and italy. the toll revenue for austria alone would mean that we would need 300 years before austria could finance its share of the brenner tunnel. that is why we need priorities, we need transport projects of european unity. that's why we've launched a cross-party, cross-country initiative. we want the rail links from berlin to warsaw, tallinn, riga and vilnius to be the top priority for european integration, and we want the rail links from vienna and venice to ljubljana, bratislava, prague and budapest. with these two projects, we have reached all eight capitals of the new candidate countries. europe can then grow together. we would rather have these two projects completed by 2010 than 30, 50 or 48 projects half-completed by 2020. it is only by setting priorities that europe can grow together.
i have to say, madam president, i'm glad you're the coast-friend who's chairing the meeting, you know that. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done with the shadow rapporteurs. i think we have a reasonable compromise for tomorrow's vote, which all the groups can support, and that is the end of the matter. unfortunately, the world is not as we want it to be. the terrorist attacks were real. this puts transport of people and goods at risk. we must do something about it, and that is what this directive is trying to do, i.e. we must prevent it. the only point to be made in this connection is that, in the end, the protection of the environment cannot be left to the ports alone, but is a task for the whole transport chain. it starts at the loader. and finally, road and rail must be included in this safety, because otherwise we will have distortions of competition and end up with what we do not want: more traffic on the road rather than on the water. i think that needs to be taken into account. i think the commission has already made some preliminary considerations to take this into account.
thank you very much, commissioner. thank you for your brevity, too. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today.
the next item is the report (a6-0105/2005) by mr alejandro cercas, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2003/88/ec on certain aspects of the organisation of working time (com (2004) 0607 - c6-0122/2004 - 2004/0209 (cod)).
i have to say, madam president, i would like to remind my colleagues once again that we must really take responsibility for social europe, especially since many believe that this will be a utopia after the accession of the ten new member states. minimum standards are essential for a social europe. we therefore reject the commission's amendments to the working time directive, because they remove the minimum standards and leave the directive to its own devices. this includes the invention of dividing the standby duty into active and inactive working time and not recognizing parts of it as working time. we're gonna keep the on-call hours to be working hours. the protection of workers and public safety must continue to take precedence over economic considerations. health care services of 30 hours or more pose a risk to patients. i see no room for compromise here! this position is also clearly supported by the ecj judgment. i thank the rapporteur for including this crucial phrase in the report. however, we do not bear his compromises that come after. we want to improve this because we think it is necessary that the standby time remains working time.
i have to say, madam president, the revised lisbon strategy is aimed at growth and jobs. we need more flexibility and competitiveness agreed! but that is precisely what is contained in the cercas report on the working time directive, on which mr silva peneda, the epp member, and many of us have worked on compromises. we do not want a rigid corset for the whole of the eu, but a reasonable framework for action, which leaves room for national regulations, such as extending the reference period from four months to one year, provided that the social partners agree. the possibility of extending the 48-hour week is also in their hands and in the collective agreements. this is the practical application of the principle of subsidiarity and flexibility. the court of justice's ruling defining the standby period as working time must remain the basis. i think that the commission's proposal to divide paid active and unpaid inactive working time is far from realistic. commissioner spidla, i worked a night shift at the largest accident clinic in hesse. what paramedics, nurses and ambulance drivers did there was highly active emergency response. the short breaks between missions were not enough to regenerate. employees are not only entitled to job security and job satisfaction in hospitals. the directive does not apply to fire services, including those at airports, and to emergency and security services in environmentally sensitive companies. i've spoken to all of them. i know the financial problems of hospitals. but they must also - as in other areas - find intelligent ways to save costs, better coordinate the work of their skilled staff and make better use of technical facilities. let's not forget that there are other costs that come with having a staff that is so overworked on a daily basis that they are at risk of permanent health damage, not to mention possible misdiagnosis or inadequate treatment by overtired staff. putting patients at such risk is unacceptable!
i have to say, madam president, i'm focusing on the standby. many colleagues are asking why there seems to be a particular problem in my country, because, as in the case of germany after the ecj judgments, the hospital authorities are taking a strong stance against the proposed amendment to the social affairs committee. therefore, it is clear that: germany has also been implementing ecj legislation since 2004. since then, the entire period of on-call duty has been regarded as working time under the german labour code, just as the report by mr cercas demands. secondly, it is also possible in practice without any major problems. this is evidenced by a study cited by the german federal minister of health. the necessary introduction of innovative working time models and the partial re-employment of doctors have been supported financially in my country since 2003. of course, problems can still arise. but that is precisely why our committee wants the opening clause, which allows for different arrangements for the calculation of periods of inactivity to be made by collective agreement and, if necessary, by law. the problem is not the european working time directive but the inability of the german hospital system to reform. for example, in germany, a region which is much smaller than sweden, has much more hospital beds and hospitals. and the emergency room is about patient safety. prolonged wakefulness for more than 24 hours has the same negative effects as a blood alcohol level of 1 per mille. but doctors often work 30 hours a day, and that needs to change.
we as members of the european parliament have a responsibility to ensure that the people of europe have a good chance of a future. and that includes protecting their workers' rights, their rights in the workplace. there must be rules for that, yes, but what are they? how many? how detailed? the central task, i think, is - and i have heard this repeatedly over the last year - that we first of all make sure that they keep their jobs or have jobs at all. and then i see a directive on working time being put forward, which is being made worse by the relevant committees of parliament, and made worse by the criteria of the lisbon strategy. that means we're going to make more regulations! we will not have less regulation, we will not have more flexibility, but the opposite will be the case. i'm gonna try to tie this to a few questions. firstly, why do we have to dictate in europe what the emergency services look like? does this have to be the same in every hospital, in every city, in every country in europe? why would you do that? the truth is that the situation in a trauma hospital, where you have to go out more often at night, is different from that in an orthopedic clinic, where at night everything sleeps! it is not appropriate to put all this on the back burner. it's wrong! secondly, why can the extension of working time be regulated only by collective agreement? why can't an individual worker make an agreement for himself? who gives us the right to forbid workers from making their own agreements on their place of work and working hours? i know young doctors who would like to work a little longer in the future and earn a few more marks because they are rebuilding their lives, because they have just built a house. and we want to ban that in the future? what right do you have? and why do we now want to impose strict working hours on family members? why do we not want to allow the proven flexibility of family farms to be maintained in the future? different work situations require different solutions! if we do not do this, we will not be doing justice to the people and we will be doing europe a disservice!
colleagues, we are in the middle of a debate and have approximately another eight minutes left, including the commissioner’s statement. please take your conversation outside. those of you seated behind mrs klaß, please ask your colleagues to leave. that includes mr rasmussen and others. could the huissiers please escort out of the chamber those who are leaving the debate. please sit down and be quiet for another eight minutes or leave the chamber.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has been a strong supporter of barroso's approach to de-bureaucratisation and deregulation. the commission is therefore proposing to re-launch the lisbon process. this parliament must support the commission in this. tomorrow we can take a step in the right direction by opting for a flexible, modern and forward-looking revision of the working time directive. a european directive must give the member states a certain degree of freedom of design and flexibility in implementation, even from the very outset. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if the social committee's proposal is adopted, i.e. if all on-call time is considered as working time in principle and the opt-out is abolished, this will lead to a strong restriction of flexible working time models throughout europe. i don't see that as a modern solution! it cannot be fair to establish the principle that on-call duty time is regarded as working time in its entirety for the various workers concerned, because in firemen, youth workers and rehabilitation clinics, for example, the question of over-exertion does not arise, since on-call duty consists mainly of inactive time. we therefore advocate differentiation in the context of the emergency services. let us let the hospitals, the doctors, the fire brigades, the youth workers, together with the local social partners, decide which working time models are right for them. let us decide for the freedom of choice of the workers. let's go with flexibility. and for that flexibility, we need opt-out, extension of reference periods and meaningful, appropriate differentiation within the standby services. this is precisely what our amendments nos 26, 27 and 32 and, on standby services, nos 29 and 30 aim at. i ask for your support.
thank you very much, commissioner. and thank you for your patience with this parliament and for speaking under difficult conditions. mr davies, i have to go. is your point of order really necessary, considering that the vote is about to begin?
mr davies, we will take note of that in the bureau, but it is also the fault of the house itself. i had to keep calling the house to order to give the speakers some quiet in which to speak. it is also the fault of certain political groups, because one-minute speeches never last for one minute, they always overrun. that can be dealt with in the conference of presidents. i would be happy to abolish one-minute speaking time slots in favour of two minutes. we can discuss the matter but we have to agree on it. the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow.
president of afghanistan. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted and honoured to address this distinguished gathering, particularly as this is my first visit to the european parliament. it gives me great confidence for the future of afghanistan and our region to see the countries of europe come together here in a spirit of unity and cooperation. it was not long ago that the iron curtain divided europe into west and east. yet, today, that curtain has been removed to reveal a mosaic, where each piece retains a distinct identity, but together form a greater entity. two days ago, europe celebrated the 60th anniversary of the victory in europe day, the anniversary of europe’s new beginning. while in the past, european conflicts had global implications, today european cooperation is improving lives and is a source of admiration across the world. as you rebuilt after the second world war, you had security guarantees, the marshall plan, and an international long-term commitment. we, the people of afghanistan, are also grateful for the international security and economic support we have received over the last three years. the european union, in particular, has been one of the largest supporters of afghanistan. we are grateful for your generous contributions, the commitment of troops from your nations, and the technical assistance you have provided and continue to provide. most importantly, you show us what our region’s future could be: a future of peace, a future of unity, and a future of cooperation. afghanistan was one of the least-developed countries, even before its invasion by the former soviet union. ten years of fighting the soviet invasion, followed by more than a decade of foreign interference and factional conflict, further impoverished our country. our infrastructure was almost totally destroyed, our communities devastated and our state institutions crippled. the long and dark years of suffering, however, did not dampen our aspirations to build a stable, democratic and prosperous afghanistan. given that opportunity in 2001, the people of afghanistan enthusiastically began the process of rebuilding our country. today, we have an enlightened and progressive constitution which safeguards human rights, guaranteeing the equality of men and women, provides for a free-market economy and creates a framework for responsible government. the first presidential election in our history was held last october in which more than eight million people participated. the success of the election graphically illustrated the defeat of terrorism in afghanistan. (applause)in particular, the massive participation by the women of afghanistan, 42% of the national turnout, demonstrated emphatically that a new era of social and political rights for women had arrived. (applause)here, i would like to narrate a story to you that i witnessed about two and a half months ago. two and a half months ago, i was having lunch with a group of tribal elders from a very conservative part of afghanistan, and i noticed that with these tribal elders and clergy there were women. i felt as if the women were from the urban parts of the country, and i greeted the tribal chiefs by name. i knew many of them by name, and i said: ‘mr so-and-so welcome and how are you?’. when i had finished greeting the men, i said to the ladies: ‘welcome and good to see you’. suddenly one of the ladies got up and said: ‘mr president, you greeted the men by name. you did not greet us by name’. i was shocked. i said: ‘well, madam, i am sorry i did not know your name’. she said: ‘you know, you are elected because of our vote. next time i see you, you had better know my name or you will not be elected!’. (laughter and applause) that is the change in afghanistan for which we are very happy. the presence of the international security assistance force, led by europe from the beginning, has provided us with a secure environment to exercise our political rights. with help from europe and others in the international community, we have trained a new police force of some 50 000, along with a special force to conduct counter-narcotics operations. the new afghan national army, currently 20 000 strong, is increasingly taking responsibility for supporting security across the country. we are accelerating the disarmament process, disarming both regular armed forces and illegal armed groups. more than 50 000 former combatants have been disarmed, and over 95% of the heavy weaponry has been cantoned. extensive reforms are also under way in other sectors, including the judiciary and the civil service – the administration. our judicial system is gradually recovering in effectiveness and credibility from the damages of war. institutions of government and civil society are gaining increasingly in strength, giving the citizens more confidence, more services and more rights to enjoy. the afghan independent human rights commission continues the important work of promoting human rights throughout the country. thanks to the open political atmosphere in afghanistan, the free press has enjoyed great development and success, as demonstrated by the publication of more than 300 independent papers, more than 30 independent radio stations and four independent television channels in less than two years. we realised that political and security developments can be sustained only with corresponding improvements in the economic area. over the last three years, we have introduced a new currency, stabilised inflation and enacted numerous legal and administrative reforms to simplify our customs and investment processes. as a result, hundreds of millions of dollars in international investment have flowed into afghanistan. certain industries, such as the hospitality sector, banks and mobile communications, have particularly benefited. wages have increased, as has trade and commerce with countries of the region, notably pakistan, iran, tajikistan, china and beyond. i should like to give an example here of the changes that have occurred. three years ago, afghanistan’s trade with pakistan was less than usd 50 million. last year, this trade – in less than three years – surpassed usd 1 billion. today, trade between pakistan and afghanistan amounts to usd 1 billion. the same applies to china and other countries around us. much has been done so far, but daunting challenges remain ahead of us. afghanistan’s social development indicators are still dismal: we have one of the highest infant mortality rates and one of the lowest life expectancy rates in the world; and we have unacceptable levels of illiteracy, particularly among women. sadly, these social indicators place our country close to the bottom of the human development index: in fact, fifth from the bottom. terrorism has been defeated as a force, but its residues disturb our peace and tranquillity. while critical steps to establish an effective government have been taken, the ability of the new institutions to provide security and help lift the population out of extreme poverty is far from adequate. poppy cultivation and the drug economy are still afflicting our communities and remain obstacles to afghanistan’s stability. i wish to depart from my prepared speech to explain to you what is happening in afghanistan with regard to the drug economy – the cultivation of poppies. thirty years ago, when the former soviet union invaded afghanistan, afghanistan was a somewhat well-to-do agrarian society. in the years of conflict, drought and difficulties for the afghan people, afghan men and women – families, fathers, mothers, daughters – had no hope for the future. a father, a mother did not know whether their son or daughter would be alive or dead the next day; whether they would have food to eat or be hungry. in that situation, people destroyed vineyards and replaced them with poppies; people destroyed pomegranate orchards and replaced them with poppies; people destroyed apricot orchards and replaced them with poppies, because poppies were easy to grow – there was not much need for irrigation – and easy to sell. therefore, because of a lack of confidence in the future and a lack of means, society became involved in that easy crop. last year, we began action against poppy cultivation, and the people responded because they have more hope for the future: they have more confidence in their country and in themselves. we hope that there will be a considerable reduction in poppy cultivation this year in afghanistan, a great part of it voluntarily. my hope, and that of the afghan people, is that the international community will continue to assist us in decreasing poppy cultivation in afghanistan and to replace it with legitimate forms of agriculture. in other words, to replace it with alternative forms of livelihood, so that our people can return to growing vines, pomegranates, apricots and the other agricultural products which afghanistan is very good at cultivating. (applause) afghanistan produces the best pomegranates, the best foods; it can compete in international markets. please continue to help us bring a legitimate economy to the afghan people again. nobody wants to have a bad name in the world, and afghanistan is no exception. afghanistan wants to live an honourable life, a life where it can return to generating its own legitimate income. i am grateful for what you have done for us so far, but please continue to help us. parliamentary elections in september will mark the culmination of the bonn process in afghanistan. the afghan constitution decrees that at least 27% of members of the afghan parliament should be women. (applause) yet, while we will have met all the benchmarks set out in the bonn agreement by the end of september, we will only be at the beginning of a long road towards achieving the vision set out for afghanistan in that document. the end of the bonn process, therefore, must not be the end of your commitment to and support for afghanistan, but the beginning of a long-term and more comprehensive partnership. the end of the bonn process will not mean the success of afghanistan or the total success of afghanistan. the end of the bonn process, the coming of the parliament, will lay the foundations for the success of afghanistan but not constitute success itself. success itself will take many more years to come, and for that your help is needed. from europe, we need support and the assurance that afghanistan will continue to receive assistance in a sustainable manner. in particular, as you deliberate here about the european union’s future international commitments, i hope you will see the need for multi-year pledges of aid to afghanistan to support our efforts at rebuilding our country. we also need the united nations, the united states, japan and others who have assisted us so far to reaffirm their commitment to partnership with afghanistan: a partnership that is essential if afghanistan is to achieve lasting stability, democratisation and development. allow me to take this opportunity to thank you once again, on behalf of the afghan people, for the generous support that the european union, as one of the largest donors to afghanistan, has provided over the last three years. the people of afghanistan are especially grateful to your sons and daughters in uniform who are serving courageously in our country. to those who have given their lives to provide us with security, we offer once again our gratitude, our prayers and our pledge that we will never forget. today in afghanistan, in a country which, not long ago, was totally isolated from the world, something unprecedented is taking place. in a true spirit of cooperation, people from all corners of the world, people from different faiths, cultures and backgrounds, are together helping to secure the lives of the afghan people and rebuild our country. it is clear that without this cooperation afghans would never have accomplished what we have accomplished over the past three years. afghanistan is as much in need of your help today as europe was 60 years ago. then, a long-term commitment from your friends around the world gave you the support you needed to rebuild your countries, your lives. today, we are asking for that same opportunity. thank you for what you have done so far for us. we are very grateful. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
mr president, after listening to the impressive speech by president karzai and the president of our house not taking the trouble to thank him, i would like to thank him for his speech in this house. (applause from the centre)
in writing. gue/ngl deplores and condemns the killing of robert mccartney and asks for justice to be done. we express our condolences and stress that the mccartney family deserve the fullest support in their pursuit of justice. gue/ngl calls on those responsible to come forward and take responsibility for their actions and calls on those who witnessed any of the events surrounding the killing to come forward and provide information to the police or in any other form that will assist the prosecution of robert mccartney's killers in a court of law. respecting what the sisters of robert mccartney underlined when they visited the european parliament on 6 april, that this murder had no political background, but was a criminal act which should be prosecuted and those responsible brought to justice, gue/ngl made every attempt to agree a common resolution with the other political groups. we very much regret that they were not willing to compromise, preferring to use the resolution to focus on the political situation in the north of ireland. gue/ngl will be happy to deal with this issue in the european parliament, but todays voted resolution is not the correct way to do it. we therefore abstained in the final vote, and our position is made very clear in our own groups proposed resolution.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. indeed, climate policy is an important policy not only for the european union but for the whole globe, and therefore it is also a global task to take care of this policy. but before we discuss the kyoto issue further, europe should ask itself what objectives it has set for itself and what objectives it has achieved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to achieve the objectives of the single act. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the kyoto protocol is fully implemented. the kyoto protocol is binding on all - at least morally - because we all have a shared responsibility for climate policy on this planet. i would therefore like to ask the council and the commission how they are preparing for this new step after 2012 and whether they are prepared to share the burden of kyoto on more shoulders. so, are you looking for other partners and participants in this whole process? i am thinking of india, china, brazil and the united states. i think this parliament is making a mistake if it believes that threatening to bring a country to court will move it to make progress. you should only drag someone into court if you have the arguments really clearly on your side. to force these countries to act positively and to motivate them to get out of the rut, not to apologize to each other, but to say, "yes, we have a shared responsibility", seems to me to be much better and more hopeful. i would like to ask you again: mr commissioner, mr president-in-office, to what extent are you able and willing not only to involve other countries and to engage actively in dialogue with them, but also to involve other sectors? i am thinking here of transport policy, for example, but i am also thinking of the question of private house fires ... (applause from the centre) yes, we've been asking for this for a long time, you just never paid attention before. so all these sectors should be included. there's no question about the trouble. that is why i also told my german environment minister, who comes from your political family, to apply for this. he told me he couldn't do that, he'd be voted out immediately. but that's why he should do it! so, commissioner, what areas do you want to include? i also think we have to have the courage to take into account the private home fire -- all the heaters we have in our homes, which account for over a third of our carbon footprint. how much are you willing to go the extra mile? there are very simple examples. but we must not put all this together, but we must set the objectives for the future partners who will come to kyoto. the way to achieve these goals should be left to these countries. who would have thought that, for example, the federal republic of germany would have saved 21 million co2 equivalents in the last 15 years through a sensible waste policy? so, we can do a lot if we're willing to motivate countries to get involved in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i do not mean to punish, which is what i like about green politics, which i have always thought was wrong, but i also mean to motivate. nowhere is it written that farmers must grow only beets, grain, rapeseed or wine. they can also very well grow genetically modified or biologically engineered plants that absorb large amounts of co2 and release it in the subsequent combustion process only in small amounts. so there's a lot of future opportunities here, too, and room for imagination. i would like to ask you, commissioner, and the president-in-office of the council, to take this matter seriously and to be optimistic. and then we will finally be able to take the necessary steps for our children to secure this continent on the carbon issue. (applause from the centre)
president of the council. mr president, i think the debate has shown that there is no fundamental difference between the commission, the council and your parliament. we all know that the issue of climate change deserves our full attention and must be fully integrated into our policies. it is for this reason that the luxembourg presidency has made sustainable development one of its main priorities and that all the elements that relate more specifically to climate change should be specified in the framework of the sustainable development strategy. as i have said before, europe is and must continue to be a leader in this area. it will certainly be done under the british presidency. europe must make its voice heard loud and clear on the international stage. i believe that in the long run no country will be able to escape the obvious constraints that we all face in this respect and i believe that if europe continues to play its role in relation to climate change, it will also succeed in convincing those who seem to be the most reluctant today.
member of the commission. mr president, once again i would like to thank parliament for this opportunity to respond to some of the questions and for the discussion we had. with regard to the merits and weaknesses, the advantages and disadvantages of being an optimist or pessimist, as suggested by mr wijkman and mrs westlund, on this issue one should not be an optimist or pessimist but a realist. we must try to work with all those who realise the importance of the problem, that the problem is a global one and needs a global solution. with regard to the united states, mentioned by mr sjöstedt, mrs hassi and mrs korhola among others, i have to tell you that during our discussions with the united states authorities, we were very clear that we consider that cooperation in research and development of new technologies and the deployment of new technologies is very important, but we are not going to consider this a first step forward because it is something on which we in any case agree. no-one disagrees that we should use new technologies, as mr trakatellis said. we should deploy new technologies in order to fight climate change. that is something we have agreed. we should make progress. it is not progress if they agree at the g-8 or anywhere else that we will cooperate on development. that is not enough. we should take steps forward. that was made very clear to the united states because, as we correctly said earlier, other countries will refuse to cooperate and, after a few years, the developing countries of south asia and south america and other developing countries will contribute more to the greenhouse phenomenon than the european union and the united states combined. we need all countries to cooperate, to be on board. we will follow a common but differentiated policy because we cannot ask developing countries to contribute towards the reduction of emissions as much as the developed countries that have contributed far more up until now. the commission recognises the need for the european union to maintain its leading role in international and also domestic efforts to fight climate change, as mr trakatellis said. the commission highlighted in its communication of 9 february ‘winning the battle against climate change’ that we should focus on leadership by example. mr prodi said that we have a moral duty to do so. one of the central recommendations was that the european council should give a clear message that the european union wishes to engage with other countries in an open dialogue on what further multilateral action is required to address the challenge of climate change. targets were mentioned. they have proved to be a very useful tool in environmental policy-making. they provide clear guidance to decision-makers in society. they are particularly useful to industry in the private sector. thus, targets will continue to be a core element of any future climate policy regime. however, the timing of targets is very important. the exact timing should depend on the progress we make in building international support for starting negotiations on the future climate change regime. once we have a mandate to start such negotiations, the european union will need to consider putting forward the targets it is willing to set for the post-2012 period. i should like to respond to the suggestion made by several speakers that the european union should use trade measures to protect our industry or other measures to offset the competitive advantages of companies in countries that do not restrict their greenhouse gas emissions. the european union’s climate policy has been carefully designed to minimise costs to industry. that is the reason we opted for emissions trading. our goal should be to work towards a future climate regime that is not only a decisive step in winning our battle against climate change, but also allows us to do so in a way that strengthens our competitiveness in clean technologies. such a regime will get us much further – also in climate terms – than trade sanctions. with regard to the developing countries, i agree about the importance of assisting developing countries to adapt to the adverse effects of climate change. the european union is the main contributor to the 2001 bonn political declaration, which pledges usd 410 million per year in climate change funding for developing countries, starting this year. an important part of this will go to support adaptation measures. the european union is also the main contributor to the least developed countries fund. those countries have to face all the consequences of climate change, but they are not in a position to take the measures needed to adapt properly. it is our moral duty to work with them and help them. it is also in our interests, because in this way they will also contribute to reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases. i should like to underline the importance of developing and deploying new technologies, including in developing countries. the commission is identifying and implementing concrete actions. the commission recently agreed with china on the setting-up of two new european union-china action plans in the area of energy: one on clean coal and the other on renewable energy and energy efficiency for which the commission has secured initial funding. once again, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the bonn seminar and the forthcoming negotiations on the future international climate change regime. i am confident that parliament will, as usual, play an important part in this debate. the commission and parliament have always been strong allies in this respect. i look forward to working with you in the future.
president of the council. mr president, on the question of small arms and light weapons (salw), we all know that the world is faced with many regional conflicts in which these weapons, sometimes even used by children, create extremely dangerous and destructive situations. the european union therefore supports the secretary-general's call for the development of long-term strategies to end the scourge of the illicit proliferation of small arms. one such strategy is the united nations programme of action to prevent, combat and eliminate the illicit trade in small arms in all its aspects. it was adopted on 20 july 2001 and the european union is actively working to implement its recommendations at national, regional and global levels. the consequences of the illicit manufacture, transfer and trafficking of small arms and light weapons, as well as their excessive accumulation and uncontrolled spread, are at the heart of four of the five major challenges identified in the security strategy adopted by the european council in 2003. small arms and light weapons contribute to the escalation of terrorism and organised crime and are a major factor in the outbreak and spread of conflict and the collapse of state structures. as the european strategy points out, conflicts in which these weapons were by far the main instrument have since 1990 claimed the lives of nearly four million people and forced more than 18 million others to flee their homes or their countries. the increasing access of non-state actors to these arms stocks has changed the nature and duration of conflicts. in the face of this situation, which may jeopardise our own security, the european union must react in close cooperation with its international partners. we are therefore actively preparing for the second biennial meeting of states to implement the un programme of action on salw, to be held in new york in mid-july. in the context of preparing for this important event, the presidency has drawn up a list of topics which should be dealt with as a matter of priority in the relevant international fora. the list, which is in the process of being approved, includes, inter alia, illicit salw brokering, transfer control, end-use verification, security-development link, military and security force arms management, the establishment of a mechanism to implement the un action plan, civilian possession of small arms, transfer to non-state actors and technical assistance for submission and reporting. the european union stresses in particular the importance of establishing a group of governmental experts in the immediate wake of the review conference of the action programme to be held in 2006 in order to consider further measures to strengthen international cooperation aimed at preventing, combating and eliminating the illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons. another key element of our priorities is the negotiation of an international instrument for the identification and tracing of these weapons. the european union gives its full support to the open-ended working party responsible for negotiating this instrument. in the two sessions held so far by this group of diplomats and experts, the european union and the other parties have set out and confirmed their priorities on the various aspects, including the nature of the instrument, its scope and definitions, the marking and tracing of small arms and ammunition, and registration and international cooperation. the european union notes the progress made in these negotiations, but regrets that the participating states remain divided on the two major issues of the nature of the instrument and the inclusion of munitions. the european union is working to secure the adoption of a legally binding instrument to supplement the united nations protocol against the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms. it also insists that the instrument should include appropriate provisions on ammunition. indeed, only a steady supply of ammunition allows illicit small arms and light weapons to continue to wreak havoc. but if we can stop the smuggling of munitions, we can silence these weapons. if the group reaches a positive result at its final session in june 2005, the union will make every effort to ensure the swift entry into force of this instrument. as you know, honourable members, the european union is also very active in this area, both internally and in its bilateral assistance to third countries. within the union itself, in 1998, the council adopted the code of conduct on conventional arms exports. it allows for improved exchange of information between member states and enhanced mutual understanding of their export control policies, including provisions on the requirement of an end-user certificate or appropriate documents or a form of official authorisation issued by the country of final destination, which must be subject to close scrutiny. as you know, the code of conduct is currently under review; it will cover virtually all activities related to, or having a direct or indirect connection with, arms transfers. as regards assistance to third countries, following a number of specific joint actions, the european union adopted a joint action in 2002 and launched specific actions on the basis of this action on arms collection and destruction projects in africa, asia, latin america and the balkans. the council is prepared to report regularly to your parliament on these weapons and to work closely with it.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission naturally welcomes the constant efforts of the united nations and other actors to combat the serious effects of the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. we welcome the renewed attention to this issue and look forward to participating in the biennial meeting of the states in new york city in july 2005. we are very grateful to the european parliament for taking the initiative to draw attention to this upcoming event. the commission will study very carefully the proposals which are formulated in the parliamentary resolutions. we recognise that the accumulation and spread of these weapons exacerbate conflicts, fuel terrorism, hamper post-conflict reconstruction efforts and reduce prospects for sustainable development. it is therefore essential to use multinational partnerships combining prevention and response measures to address these issues and it is also essential to use the instruments of the united nations to this end. the effectiveness of the fight against the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons depends on communication and cooperation between states. the commission, which favours a multilateral approach, has involved several of these services in various projects in this field. it is important to stress that to remedy this problem, action must be taken in several directions, ranging from development aid proper to security sector reform and the effective destruction of armaments. some of these areas fall within the community's competence, others unfortunately do not. in its programme for the prevention of violent conflict, the european union recognises that by working to eliminate the destabilising and conflict-inducing source of small arms, it would make a major contribution to preventing further violence. the european union is striving to achieve this through international cooperation, financial and technical assistance programmes and effective arms control. the commission is financing a number of actions under the european development fund to help demobilize and reintegrate former combatants into society and to collect and destroy these weapons. in many cases, these actions are implemented through specific demobilisation, disarmament and reintegration programmes. in other cases, however, the reintegration of former combatants has been integrated into larger post-conflict development/rehabilitation programmes. these programmes aim to improve overall economic and social structures in conflict-affected areas, contributing to the reintegration of former combatants and their families into civilian life. a number of issues related to the transfrontier transfer of these weapons are also currently being considered for next year's conference. the commission is also considering the possibility of a new agreement on the trade in arms. the commission will actively participate in the council's debate on these issues. it is premature to go into these points in detail now, as some of them will require a thorough study involving several commissioners. the european union has also repeatedly called for legally binding instruments on arms brokering, marking and tracing of small arms and light weapons at the united nations conference and the monitoring meeting on the illicit trade in small arms in 2001 and 2003.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the number of 4 million victims just mentioned by the president-in-office of the council shows how important this issue is. we've all made a decision to prevent small arms from falling into the wrong hands. we in europe, in the european union, have the monopoly of violence of the state, and that is a great achievement. we have different conditions here than in the united states, where this is not the case in the same way. this means that the use of small arms is reserved for soldiers and police officers and that there are special regulations for hunters and for sport shooters. it is of the utmost importance that every single weapon in our european union is actually registered, that we know where it comes from. the problem arises when these weapons also reach countries outside the european community. that is why it is so important that the code on arms exports, as it is now, be further tightened and that we ensure that at least the supply of arms to areas of tension - where this incredible number of victims actually arises - is prevented as far as possible. this includes the development of a system for tracing these weapons, the registration of each sale or acquisition of these weapons, i.e. in an international register, and the possibility of tracing a particular weapon back to its origin, to the manufacturer, and the identification of those responsible for the sale and transfer of these weapons. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the projects initiated by the united nations are actually carried forward and finally brought to fruition.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his presentation. i have a question about the ten priorities. point 3 is devoted to migration management as a so-called new balanced approach to migration management. the problem, as mentioned, is that the decision as to how many migrants coming from third countries can be admitted to the european union remains a national decision. the commission suggested that an area of free movement demands a common immigration policy, and we agree with that. how will the commission try to overcome the contradiction embedded in the fact that, on the one hand, the european union is developing a common european asylum system, a common european visa system and common european border control, while, on the other hand, legal migration, which is a very important part of migration management, remains a strictly national question?
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, the first question concerns libya and i can say briefly that the first report of the commission on libya, which i presented to the ministers of the interior on 14 april, as mr catania recalls, contained some elements of concern. the report is available, not secret, of course, but it is precisely because of the questions and questions that have emerged in the meeting with the ministers of the interior that we have decided to send a second technical mission to libya to go to the places where people have been repatriated or people are waiting to be able to come to europe. the results of this second mission are not yet available, but the mission has already been concluded and at the next council of ministers of the interior, on 2 or 3 june, i cannot remember exactly, i will report on the second mission and propose concrete initiatives which will certainly be inspired by the need to protect strongly on the spot, and therefore also in libya, the fundamental rights of people who have entered legally or illegally and who are entitled to be treated with dignity as human beings. this will of course also be the subject of constant information to this parliament. on data protection, baroness ludford, you know how much this matter is a constant concern for me. certainly one way to point the way is to say that you cannot access personal data except for the precise purposes for which access is permitted by law: it is not possible to extend it by analogy, but since it is allowed for certain objectives, we can extend it to other objectives as well. that's not right. if we start to be specific about this and say, for example, that only certain authorities are allowed to access the confidential data of individuals and not other authorities, we start to make firm points. i'll just give you an example. the ministers of the interior have asked me to develop greater powers of access for the investigating authorities to existing databases. my answer is that the right of access can be extended if we simultaneously increase the protection of that data with a third pillar proposal, which i assure you will be tabled by the end of this year. i think the answer is "we must be clear". there are narrowly defined goals, as the legal scholars say, so if access to data is allowed for one goal, it cannot be allowed for another goal. this is the starting point on which i started working. the last theme: victims of crime: we will also be putting forward proposals to help financially, not directly individual victims, but for example organisations and institutions that are concerned with the care and psychological care of those who escape violence, trafficking in human beings, who escape traffickers. there are many forms of assistance, including concrete assistance, to individual persons who have been victims of crime. we cannot have individual funding relationships but we can develop them through specific institutions and organisations; we will be concerned with alleviating the consequences for those who have suffered the tragedy of crime.
the next item is question time (b6-0236/2005). we are dealing with a number of questions to the commission. part i
question no 29 by eoin ryan (h-0350/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: imports of textiles since the expiry of the international textile quota system on 1 january 2005, and due to lower labour and production costs, exports of certain chinese garments to europe have increased by more than 500%. does the commission accept that excessive imports of textiles from china are causing market distortions and that thousands of jobs in the textile industry could be at risk if china does not limit its imports? will the commission now invoke wto rules and introduce an annual limit on chinese imports of 7.5% until 2008?
member of the commission. the european union is abiding by the rules of the wto, which set out quite clearly what should be done at this particular stage. that is why commissioner mandelson awaited factual information regarding exports from china into the european union for the first three months of this year. the commission has now initiated further action. as a result of this particular action, a number of categories are now being investigated. however, as my colleague mr mandelson has pointed out, under the agreement in the wto, member states throughout the union have had ten years to prepare for this. therefore, it should not have come as a great surprise – or any surprise at all – that the chinese exporters would avail of the opportunity. furthermore, irrespective of what action might result as a consequence of the investigation now taking place, it can only last until 31 december 2008 in any event. i am not anticipating what decision might be reached as a result of these investigations; however, whatever happens, this can only last until the end of 2008. furthermore, the honourable member raised the question of customs cooperation. the fact-gathering that the commission’s services have done gives details from all the member states as to what the volume of imports from china has been in the first few months of this year. there has been good customs cooperation between the authorities in the relevant member states and the commission in order to provide that particular precise information on the real data regarding imports.
question no 30 by mr evans (h-0285/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: protection of air passengers in the event of insolvency many air passengers who book separately a flight and a hotel on the internet instead of a package holiday do not have adequate protection against being stranded in another country or losing their money in the event of the airline's insolvency. the european commission stated on 29 march 2005 that it was looking into the problem and would consider the need for new legislation. could the commission say when the study will be completed and when proposals will be made to protect the millions of eu citizens who book their travels online?
member of the commission. the honourable member is right in highlighting this particular lacuna in the existing legislation. as he will know, the package travel directive covers travel as part of the total package. however, as he has pointed out, in the specific instance where a consumer has purchased his or her flight separately from the package, it is not covered. that means that the difficulties mentioned can arise. that is why the commission carried out a study in this particular area. the first part of the consultancy is being done by commissioner barrot, and will cover the general review of regulations in this regard. the second part will deal with the possibility of bankruptcies and what should be done when they occur. i should also point out that dg sanco is carrying out an ongoing review of the package travel directive, which will also deal with this issue. since 2000 there have been 40 such bankruptcies, but the method of dealing with them varies between member states. some member states take it upon themselves to look after their stranded nationals. others have agreements with each other. therefore, it is necessary that we review this in its entirety. hopefully, we will have the consultancy study by this summer. commissioner barrot will then propose some amendments, if he thinks necessary, on the basis of the study.
member of the commission. i should like to point out that, whether or not one has insurance, it does not necessarily mean the standard passenger involved would be flown back. he or she might have the insurance to get compensation later, but it would be no use to him or her when the actual event occurs. the study being done will look at all aspects and i am sure we will put forward proposals to address some of these problems. as you know, one of the great successes of opening up markets in europe in recent years has been the airline industry. people can fly around europe now for very little, compared to a short number of years ago, and that has been good for consumers in general. of that there is no doubt. all these matters will be looked at in the consultancy study.
question no 31 by mr giorgos dimitrakopoulos (h-0288/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: relevance threshold lawwhy did the european commission not examine, in accordance with articles 1 to 5 of the european constitution, the possibility of discussing the points of disagreement in the relevance threshold law at expert level with a three-person panel appointed by the greek government, following the model of the well-known european arbitration procedure, before sending its reasoned opinion or reply to the greek government's letter of 6 april 2005?
member of the commission. it has been pointed out to the greek authorities that the commission believes that this law infringes both the eu directives and the treaty itself. we have pointed out to the greek authorities that neither the article in the constitution nor the law are compatible with either the eu directive or with the treaty provisions. we also pointed out that the same applied to the previous law, which was not implemented or executed. we sent a letter of formal notice to the greek authorities on 23 march, they replied on the same date. from that, we saw the case they had put forward. then, on 28 april, we sent our reasoned opinion. that is the situation. of course, we need to have dialogue with the greek authorities, but they know our position on this matter.
question no 32 by mr staes (h-0272/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: communication on the european union various opinion polls have shown that citizens are not very interested in the european union and its institutions. the information campaigns and the debate on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe following the various referendums are threatened by other issues such as the possible accession of turkey and the adoption or rejection of the services directive. does the commission accept that the debate on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe lacks the necessary integrity? what means of communication will it use to bring the european union and its benefits closer to the citizens?
vice-president of the commission. not only that, but by putting it in the constitution, these rules and fundamental rights will be legally enforceable to european citizens. that is another argument that has to be put to our citizens. we try to do it in different ways. the best way is often to show the text as it is so that people can read for themselves what are actually set out as fundamental rights for european citizens and explain what that means. we can also do that through information on the web-page or other information materials that we have. there is a constant dialogue with citizens in trying to explain and discuss it with them. you did that successfully in spain. we are grateful to spain for that. you set an example. in many member states they actually advertise the full text of the constitution, including the fundamental rights.
question no 33 by mr bernd posselt (h-0281/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: commission communication there is growing criticism of the commission's communication activities. what steps does it plan to take to improve relations with the media and to bring publicity about the eu closer to the citizen?
vice-president of the commission. the barroso commission has proposed a partnership for a renewed european order to tackle the complex challenges ahead, where vision, leadership and delivery are the key elements for building renewed trust and confidence. the only way to develop this partnership is by bringing in the european citizens and taking their interests into account. the first responsibility of the present commission is, therefore, to connect with citizens. let me add immediately that this is not just the commission’s responsibility. in fact, it is very much the responsibility of all players: parliament, the council and the member state governments. the commission will, therefore, put forward a white paper on communication, which will address the role of all involved and which will give the other institutions the possibility to define and organise their input. the commission for its part will pursue a new approach on communication, which will focus on the need to interest europeans in eu politics. this demand-driven communication approach has to involve a better understanding of target audiences and those who act as multipliers, a better use of modern and effective communication tools and techniques, and a more professional attitude to all our communication work. what the commission will have to do first is to improve its listening process. the commission needs to make better use of its polling and intelligence services – if i may call them that – in its consultation procedures and to use its communication tools according to the needs and interests of its audiences. in order to reach people, the communication of political priorities will be adapted to demographic and national specificities, instead of taking the classical one-size-fits-all approach. our representation offices in the member states will have a central role to play here. the commission will explain its policies and their impact on eu citizens’ daily lives and communicate the tangible benefits of europe rather than overload people with technical information. last, but not least, the commission will encourage and support efforts to establish and improve a dialogue with europeans. the commission will, therefore, need to professionalise its communication activities. that involves improving research, planning, coordination and evaluation of communication activities and making better use of the excellent communication tools the commission has at its disposal and the representations in the 25 member states. communication will be integrated into the commission’s working culture and into policy formulation from the very beginning, and this needs to be maintained throughout the whole political process. since communication is an across-the-board challenge, all actors – from the european institutions and member states to civil society and the media – have a role to play. interinstitutional cooperation is a key element. the commission has kept parliament regularly informed on the development of the communication strategy, which was also discussed at the last meeting of the interinstitutional group on information and in the committee on culture and education during the discussion on the herrero-tejedor report. the commission will invite the european parliament and the council to comment on its white paper. the commission will also continue to improve relations with the media, in particular regional and local media in the member states, as a key element for ensuring that information reaches the citizens.
the commission has already done so. i see two dangers for the commission's information policy: on the one hand, too much narrowing down to a few major languages, such as english, and on the other hand, narrowing down or centralising it to brussels. what plans does the commission have to strengthen decentralised information so that commissioners are more readily available to the press in the member states? the european information centres are part of the europe direct network. i was just at the opening in furth in the woods last weekend. that's great. but there are still too few of them, especially in the new member states. i would like to know whether the network is already widespread this year.
vice-president of the commission. mr posselt is absolutely right about the risk of this becoming too narrow or too brussels-centric, and that has been part of the problem until now. we face a huge challenge in dealing with 20 official languages, and this is something that will remain a huge challenge for us. in preparing this new communication strategy, we have been guided by the concept of ‘going local’, that is to say reaching out locally and regionally through our representation offices. we have to equip those offices in such a way – and work and plan in such a way – that they can ‘go local’ and communicate with local media. our contacts with the national parliaments will also help. we have to make sure that european affairs are anchored in local and national political traditions and party systems. they will have to understand european affairs and how this affects the way they work and their tasks. i agree with you that these are challenges. we are already concentrating on trying to solve these two issues.
question no 34 by gay mitchell (h-0300/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: providing information on the constitution for europe although the eu plays an important role in many areas of daily life, citizens in the member states tend to think of the union as something detached and abstract. according to the recently published eurobarometer survey results, based on a citizens' survey conducted in november 2004, around one third of all europeans have never heard of the constitution. so there is a huge information problem. the french example, however, has shown that discussions on the constitution are often closely linked to other issues, such as turkey's eu accession. how does the commission ensure that citizens of the union are fully informed about the constitution? will the commission make greater efforts in the future to dispel the rumors currently circulating about the constitution?
vice-president of the commission. i am sorry, but do the uk media have no shame in publishing such absolutely desperate lies? i never said such a thing, but it does not help if they have written it. they have lied; they have made things up. i just feel sorry for you because you have been misled by pure lies in the british media. i just want everybody here to know that this is a pure lie. they have made up some kind of title or headline in the newspapers that is totally wrong. a lot of people were there, so you will know exactly what i said.
question no 35 by hélène goudin (h-0329/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu information and communication strategyin a draft report (pe 355.447v01-00) on the implementation of the eu information and communication strategy, the european parliament proposed that the institutions should conclude agreements with independent television production companies capable of producing sophisticated television series, competitions, films, reportages and, in general, content that is entertaining, meets the tastes of the public and conveys the european idea and values (paragraph 11). the commission's communication (com (2004) 196 final) concluded that there is a need for information on the ideas and values of the eu. the commission stressed that the audiovisual sector plays an important role in this work and that the co-financing of audiovisual programmes through the eu should be continued (p. 18). does the commission consider that the time is right for co-financing of television programmes in the context of achieving its objective of informing the public in the specific areas proposed by the committee on culture, i.e. television series, competitions, films, newsreels? what are the costs in the corresponding budget lines of the commission's current information and communication strategy?
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank you. mr lundgren, i do not think i have said anything at all about a kind of page one way or the other. we have talked about trying to get the facts and information out about the constitution and helping journalists to understand better and get all the information they need, in order to be able to - i think - report on a debate that contains both yes and no arguments. it is very important to have a free media and a lively debate on the issue. so i have no idea whether it's a kind of page one way or the other. what we are trying to do is to ensure that journalists also have access to information and, if they need it, to training, for example, to learn how the european institutions work. i do not want to express an opinion on whether it is a one-sided page or a one-sided page, but i want to make sure that i contribute to an informed debate.
question no 36 by brian crowley (h-0344/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: benefits of a 'yes' to the constitutional treaty does the commission also believe that there is an urgent need to make clearer and more forceful the benefits of a 'yes' to the constitutional treaty, rather than dealing with the consequences of a 'no', and can the commission explain how it is conveying the 'positive message' to eu citizens? question no 36 will be answered in writing. questions to mrs hübner
question no 37 by mr karatzaferis (h-0273/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: conversion of the old ellinikon airport greek environment minister souflias stated on 22 march 2005 that the old athens airport ellinikon will not be completely converted into a city park because, as he said, the greek taxpayer cannot be required to pay for its construction and maintenance, so that at least 100 hectares can now be developed. as you know, the citizens of athens have little breathing room left, since athens is the capital city with the lowest proportion of green space in the european union. has the greek government asked the commission to co-finance the establishment of this park? are there urban parks in other major cities of the union?
member of the commission. that was not a question, but a comment, and i listened carefully to it. i want to say that one of the features of the structural funds is partnership. certainly, any parks or any urban sites open to the general public usually require a lot of partnership, not only at the planning stage of such an investment but also on completion, in terms of the management and maintenance of such parks. i hope that this idea is an example of an opportunity for many representatives of different institutions in greece to get together and really to think about whether this is entirely necessary. i listened carefully to your comments.
question no 38 by mr pieper (h-0274/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: reform of european regional policya study by the university of kassel in july 2004 shows that up to 96% of funding for german regional aid (eu/federal programmes) is lost to the economy due to spatial displacement and carry-over effects. the current draft regulation with general provisions (com (2004) 0492 final) aims to prevent the promotion of relocation of holdings in the new funding period. however, the scheme only covers the seven-year duration of the investment in the location supported. how can a previous relocation be taken into account in this scheme? how can the promotion of pure relocations be prevented?
member of the commission. in the structural funds, in the regulations and also in practice, there are mechanisms in place that discourage the relocation of firms that have benefited from structural funds. under current regulations there is a provision which clearly states that a firm which relocates within five years of using the funds must reimburse the aid it received. this mechanism will be maintained after 2006; however, we are proposing to lengthen that period from five to seven years. we are also adding a provision that any firm required to reimburse money will not be entitled to receive support from the funds in the future. this proposal is currently under negotiation and discussion in the council. the regulation envisages the situation that when major project – above eur 25 million in the case of the environment and eur 50 million in the case of transport and substructure – are adopted, the commission also asks the member state, under cost-benefit analysis, to provide information about any jobs being created or lost in the regions concerned in the context of a given project. so we are taking this issue into account as well. with future regulations, the commission intends to play a more active role in monitoring, which would mean we can gather information on any on-going relocation processes and deliver it to member states. the latest information on this mechanism currently under consultation with the member states involves the state aid rules for competition. dg competition at the commission has also sought comments from member states on the issue of relocation. the commission is currently analysing the member states’ positions.
- i'm not sure. the mechanism you describe relates to the permanence of the investment, not to any previous relocation. the decision on location is always a market economy operation. it is based on infrastructure, markets, taxation and labour markets, not subsidies. we must take this into account in european regional policy, because these subsidies are primarily carry-overs. they are poison to the acceptance of the european idea, especially in the regions affected by closures, and they do not actually lead to anything, neither to additional jobs nor to additional economic potential. i would like to ask the commissioner again: what additional mechanisms can we put in place to avoid relocating previously?
member of the commission. my responsibility covers the structural funds. i understood your question in terms of the contribution of structural funds, which implies investment with the use of funds. to the extent that we have authority over the use of funds, we include the challenge of relocation. however, i cannot act in the broader context of relocation processes in general. that is why i limited my answer to the link between the structural funds and potential relocation processes.
question no 39 by mairead mcguinness (h-0282/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: regions of 'natural impact' and convergencethe commission proposes that regions whose economic development has exceeded the criterion of 75% of gdp per inhabitant (regions of so-called natural impact) should be subject to a 'phasing-in' process (towards the competition objective) as opposed to a 'phasing-out' process (away from the convergence objective) as is the case for comparable regions in the current planning period. the commission proposal is extremely restrictive for these regions, since their development needs are better met by the measures under the convergence objective than by those under the competition objective. does the commission agree with the proposal for natural impact regions to be subject to a 'phasing-out' process from the 'convergence' objective without any additional financial resources than those already provided for in the commission proposal?
member of the commission. as you know, the phasing-in regions are regions that would normally have benefited from the highest community support, over many years, allowing them to finance all those investments which are necessary to enable them to participate fully in the single market and to create conditions in which companies can operate smoothly. once those conditions are in place, priority should be given to other competitiveness factors, such as knowledge, innovation, research and development, and also the quality of human capital. these are in fact the key areas where we propose concentrating community assistance, in line with the integrated guidelines on jobs and growth which the commission proposed and the presidency concluded at the spring european council. so the natural logic is that we should move to different priorities. the second issue is, of course, limited resources. under objective 2 and the phasing-in transitional scheme, we will have very limited resources, requiring strong targeting of support. the critical mass for growth and competitiveness must be reached as soon as possible. but i must point out that the menu of priorities the commission proposes under the regulations does not prevent regions from investing in infrastructure to strengthen the secondary networks. this could include improving links to trans-european networks – to regional railways, airports, ports and also multimodal platforms providing radial links to main railway lines – and promoting regional and local inland waterways. the commission is, therefore, ready to examine the possibility of introducing a degree of flexibly in the definition of the scope of use of the funds in the phasing-in regions. consequently, the compromise text of the presidency has already been modified on this point and would allow for a derogation. such a derogation will have to be duly justified and could concern some priorities financed under the convergence objective. but that could also mean social infrastructure, such as education, health and, possibly, some missing links in the transeuropean networks. so this is all possible. it will have to be justified – most likely on a case-by-case basis – but we are opening up this possibility.
member of the commission. in my travels through the regions of europe i also visited regions that are victims of their own success. it would be natural to phase them in to objective 2. i know that many of them continue to have problems. that is why we have tried to open up the possibility of broadening the scope of the type of investment. when it comes to eligibility for objective 1 or objective 2, i do not see any possibility at this stage of a shift from one group to the other. we discussed this many times. we also had many talks with many member states. we consulted on those issues. i do not see the possibility of doing more for these regions today. however, there is still potential for parliament; there are still ongoing negotiations in the council. i cannot say that nothing is possible, but i am not very optimistic in this respect.
question no 40 by mr papadimoulis (h-0290/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: revision of the 3rd csf pending the conclusion of negotiations with the commission on the changes to the contractual control system and on the irregularities detected in connection with projects of the 2000-2004 planning period, greece has not submitted any payment applications since the beginning of this year. the greek press reports that the greek ministry of economy is also seeking a new revision of the 3rd mff, which would have to be approved by the european commission. what was the outcome of the negotiations between the greek government and the commission on the infringements committed during the four-year period 2000-2004? will there be cuts in funding and, if so, in what amounts and for which programmes? what programmes should be subject to cuts in appropriations and transferred to other programmes on the basis of proposals from the greek government and also from the european commission? how much are these cuts?
member of the commission. perhaps i was not clear enough. there are two issues that were the subject of the audit and which were also presented as an outcome of the audit. there was not only the issue already mentioned; there were also serious failings in the management and control system, which led to the irregularities. under the law on public works certain types of operations were cofinanced, and certain operations were carried from one community support framework to another. these were not justified in terms of the eligibility to the contribution of the funds. the second issue was the failures in the management and control system which led to those systemic irregularities, particularly with regard to the erdf. so we are moving on the change of the system of the loss so that we can have a sound system for the future. but we are also facing the challenge of what has happened so far under the existing system with failures. the past and the future are two different issues.
question no 41 by mr david martin (h-0303/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: mg roverwhat lessons does the commission draw from the difficulties faced by mg rover in the united kingdom?
member of the commission. i thank you very much for the ‘cars 21’ group. i understand i can go to commissioner verheugen and say that there is a request from the west midlands that we should be there. i agree with you that we should be there to contribute and be aware of where we are going and to be able to contribute funds. nobody is perfect, as we know. we all make mistakes. however, for the future, with the revitalised lisbon approach, clearly we want to help, be innovative and contribute to the restructuring. i can tell you, using a polish example, that restructuring in poland came through smes, and the whole structural change in exports and imports also came through them. it is a good sector to support.
questions 42 to 46 will be answered in writing. part iiia questions to mr verheugen, represented by mrs wallström
question no 47 by mr bowis (h-0287/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: patient informationhow soon will the commission put forward proposals to amend the medicines regulation to make it easier to provide patients with reliable information in an approved form that ensures high standards and does not involve advertising?
vice-president of the commission. mr bowis, i will tell mr verheugen that you missed him. i can say also that i understand the question very well, because once upon a time i was a minister for health and social affairs; so i know that this issue is very important. i have only tried to put together the things that are now being prepared and in the pipeline. i understand that there will also be a continuous dialogue between parliament and the commission to ensure that we get a good and reliable information system in place.
question no 48 by othmar karas (h-0336/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: commission sme strategy what measures does the commission intend to take to support smes in the context of the employment and growth strategy, both in the legislative and non-legislative fields?
vice-president of the commission. i am not sure that i can give a very precise answer to that question. i can tell you how this envoy’s tasks have been defined, and i guess that she will also see her role as a watchdog for smes. this will, no doubt, be a proper task on which to consider legislation. but there always has to be a balance between different interests. i know from discussing reach, for example, how difficult this can be. but from the very beginning, when it came to regulating chemicals, we said that this should not hit small and medium-sized enterprises in an unbalanced way. we should make sure that it is not disproportionate for small and medium-sized enterprises, and do everything in a cost-effective way. i assume that the envoy will see and define her role as a watchdog also. as regards the concrete tasks and exactly how she might report and so on, i will have to refer back to commissioner verheugen for the details, and maybe come back and give you a specific answer.
questions 49 to 85 will be answered in writing. that concludes the question time. (the sitting was suspended at 7.20 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the social democrats in parliament have helped to draw up this compromise and will be voting in favour of it tomorrow. this new directive applies to employees and selfemployed persons in the so-called regulated, i.e. skilled, professions, i.e. from architects to nurses and pharmacists to heating engineers. it will simplify and at the same time consolidate the judgments of the court of justice. we have been trying to achieve a balance between the right to free movement and establishment in europe on the one hand and the safeguarding of standards of professional qualifications and consumer protection on the other. this directive is one of the services directives, as the commissioner has said, and it is also intended to make the internal market easier. it is therefore the positive side of the coin in terms of european internal market policy. i am thinking positively, particularly in relation to the infamous services directive. for those who still do not believe it, i quote: "migrant professionals are subject to the same conditions for the exercise of their profession as nationals of the host country", or more specifically: "the qualifications requirements of the host country must still be met". this shows how important it is for us to take the destination or host country provisions seriously and not to allow for a reduction in other areas. we've accomplished a lot. we have, among other things, worked with all our colleagues to ensure that the controls are carried out in the country of destination; guarantee payments, liability payments and even a continuing training obligation may be required if necessary. the debate on the future of the community is a debate on the future of europe. the council was divided between the first and second readings and showed a certain hesitancy. i would like to emphasize that it is not luxembourg, but the council as a whole. it is not true that a three-month course at a technical college is sufficient for a heating engineer to be able to work afterwards. however, despite all the controversy in certain newspapers and especially from certain trade associations: the result is a success! it is feasible, it is important for the opportunities in the single market and for the citizens. we should now do everything we can to seize these opportunities and enable citizens to experience europe as we have always imagined it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by emphasizing the clear desire of all the parties to reach a good agreement on this difficult matter. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr zappalà, and my colleagues from the various groups, mrs weiler, mr wuermeling and my own colleague, mr manders. the cooperation was really very constructive. this is also true of the commission and the council in the final phase. i think there are three main points which we are now able to achieve with the directive. firstly, we are moving further towards the completion of the internal market. secondly, we are doing something for consumer protection. thirdly, we are actively contributing to the reduction of bureaucracy. the first point is the completion of the internal market. the vocational qualifications directive is an essential step towards overcoming the de facto limits of free movement and freedom to provide services in our common internal market. it is therefore of crucial importance for improving the mobility of union citizens. the directive is also to be seen in the context of the freedom to provide services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to travel freely, without complaints or discrimination, to the countries of the union, either to settle there or to offer their services temporarily. at the same time, everything that is subject to the specific provisions of this directive is excluded from the scope of the much-discussed services directive. i hope that our agreement here will help to make the debate on this important project more concrete. second point: consumer protection: while the services directive will regulate the conditions under which a service provider may operate, the aim here is to ensure the necessary level of professional qualifications. this is already an important objective in terms of protecting the european consumer, namely to guarantee that service providers always act only in accordance with their respective recognised qualifications. we have succeeded in introducing a safeguard against the stealthy use of qualifications by excluding qualification shopping. this is also an important aspect of consumer protection. i would like to say again in this context that i am very pleased that the trade unions have been able to be involved in the comitology procedure. your knowledge will be very valuable. it is important, however, that most craft professions should be included in annex ii in order to ensure that their specific qualifications are properly recognised. third point: reduction of bureaucracy: in recent years, the existing rules on professional recognition have become a patchwork of parallel rules and variations which have proved to be complicated, confusing and difficult for the citizen to handle. the regulatory objective of this directive, which aims to bring together the different legislative acts, is a necessary paradigm shift from the unmanageable multiplicity of regulatory approaches to a general approach which finally subjects different professions to a single legal regime linked to certain levels of qualification and thus will also contribute to deregulation. the adoption of this draft directive tomorrow is therefore a decisive step towards the completion of the european internal market, which my group will support. i think that we should not have this debate in strasbourg, but in brussels.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems which the european parliament is facing in the field of the internal market. the new directive replaces a bundle of 15 old directives and thus provides for greater transparency and legal certainty. this directive will make it easier for eu citizens to take up their work opportunities in other european countries, which is becoming increasingly important in the light of the difficult labour market situation in many member states. unjustified restrictions on mobility due to bureaucratic over-regulation in member states are being reduced, but there is still no need to fear a race to the bottom in qualifications. if you are settling permanently, you may need to pass an aptitude test or undergo further training. the notification is made in the host country and not in the country of origin as originally planned. the right of inspection is also retained by the country of destination under the directive. for some particularly sensitive fields, such as doctors, pharmacists, midwives and architects, minimum standards are set at european level and the level of qualification is also guaranteed by five levels of professional qualification according to the length and level of training. in addition, there is a duty to inform the customer or consumer of one's qualifications. we believe that this directive has struck a good balance between freedom of movement and quality protection. i hope that this balance will not be jeopardised by the proposed services directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful to mr zappalà for the good work he has done. but as the socialist leader here in the european parliament, i also want to thank mrs weiler in particular for her decisive contribution to the debate and for the fact that we are now finishing this very important piece of legislative work at second reading and do not need another step, namely the conciliation committee. i'm very pleased. this is very important! i am also very pleased - and who would have thought it - that in this legislative text we have ensured with such unanimity that the commission's original approach to the principle of the country of origin has been adopted by a really large majority - both in the council and in the european parliament. i have heard a lot of support for this today, because we have decided very clearly in this law that the principle of the country of origin does not apply, which is not european, but that we want to work and continue to work on the path of mutual recognition. in order to maintain consistency in legislation, as the commission has done, proposing the principle of country of origin twice in the interests of consistency, it is now time to show consistency in the european parliament and to follow the same path with the services directive. that would be a piece of good work we should be doing. i also found it important that the new commission accepted a proposal i had put forward at first reading, namely the introduction of european professional cards. this is the way to really promote and make it work the mobility, the opening up of markets, the opening up of borders which unfortunately still exists in this sense in the european union. i congratulate us on this vote which will take place tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fruit and vegetable market has always been subject to strong price fluctuations. the producers have more or less adapted to this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the crisis. the reform of the fresh fruit and vegetable cmo in 1996 therefore introduced a new instrument, the so-called farm funds. this was the first time that the commission had used the funds from the intervention programme to finance a modern, forward-looking instrument. we are also called upon to present forward-looking instruments for the fruit and vegetable sector. the basic principle cannot be a 'return to the old intervention', or even its creation and expansion, and a crisis management system understood only by the keyword market crises. a modern crisis management system, as i understand it, should also cushion weather-related crises, for example in the form of support for multi-hazard insurance. it's worth thinking about. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why are we not also considering decoupling aid in the fruit and vegetable processing sector? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not dismantled. the commission has decided to simplify the common organisation of the market in fresh fruit and vegetables and to revise the common organisation of the market in processed fruit and vegetables in 2006. the requirements of a modern market organization are already being met in large part in the case of fresh fruit and vegetables. i believe that the common organization of the market in processed fruit and vegetables needs to be fundamentally reformed. there is a need for additional good practices. we need a fundamental debate in europe and we need forward-looking signals for a market-oriented sector.
member of the commission. the commission is closely following the general situation in sudan, particularly in darfur. in conjunction with the member states, it has promoted intensive diplomatic activity in sudan and international fora with a view to fostering tangible progress in the north-south peace negotiations that led to the signing of the overall peace agreement on 9 january, and to finding a solution to the darfur crisis. the commission is determined to support the implementation of the january peace agreement and to back the reforms planned for the six-year transitional period. in line with the international community, the european union feels that these agreements offer an initial platform for tackling the various crises besetting sudan, thereby providing a comprehensive and lasting solution to sudan’s various crises, darfur among them. the commission and the member states therefore provided political and financial support for the negotiations that led to the ceasefire agreement of april 2004 between the sudanese government and the rebel movements. the eu has also been the main contributor, especially in financial terms, to the two african union operations to monitor the ceasefire in darfur. though it recognises the benefits of the african union’s operations in darfur and the need to reinforce its mission, the commission sees the immediate priority as being to make the african union mission fully operational. at present it is operating at only 50% of its capacity. that calls for increased cooperation between the african union, the european union and other organisations, in particular those of the united nations. the european union has repeatedly shown its support for the african union’s efforts to find a political solution in darfur and is attending the abudja negotiations as an observer. the presidency has sent a special envoy to monitor the negotiations closely. the parties could also be offered technical support to facilitate the progress of the negotiations. as for humanitarian aid, the european union, through its member states and the commission, is one of sudan’s biggest donors. the european union has earmarked more than eur 370 million in humanitarian aid for 2005, more than eur 120 million of it in the form of food aid. the commission has also earmarked eur 60 million to support the african union mission in darfur. since the darfur crisis figures among the international community’s main concerns, the european union has targeted a substantial share of its humanitarian aid into that region. since 1994, the commission has granted sudan approximately eur 700 million in humanitarian aid.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not in sudan, there have been fires in many places for decades. the whole country, except for khartoum and omdurman, has been systematically neglected by the central government. it is no wonder that crises can break out anywhere. we are not going to be able to do that, and i am not going to be able to do that. it must be implemented immediately by all concerned. the 10 000 troops deployed by the un security council in the un mission in sudan (unmis) are also contributing to this. we thank those in darfur who are assisting the displaced, injured and raped people as emergency workers, and we welcome the fact that the african union is increasing its presence in darfur. we should also not forget to support them in obtaining logistical assistance and all the other possibilities offered by the european union and individual member states. i welcome the fact that the international criminal court has been addressed by the un security council on the situation in darfur. i believe that this is a clear signal to all those in sudan and beyond that you cannot go unpunished in the way you seem to think you can in darfur. the commission has set the indicative budget at almost eur 400 million, the commissioner has just said so. i hope that the payment will only be made if the peace agreement in the south is implemented and if there is an objectively measurable improvement in the situation in darfur. i still see the sudanese government as part of the problem rather than part of the solution. for example, just yesterday we received news that a human rights activist had been arrested just before he was due to leave for dublin to receive a human rights prize. i therefore call for his immediate release and that of the other persons arrested in connection with this. in view of such contradictory behaviour on the part of the sudanese government, i ask the commission whether it has ensured that under no circumstances will any part of the eur 400 million be provided in the form of budgetary aid and that the allocation of funds will be largely guided or supported by government structures, but will try to make use of external aid organisations in darfur and elsewhere.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the world bank.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the biggest problem in the world bank's policy is structural adjustment policy. decades of structural adjustment programmes by the world bank have often produced grotesque results, such as the privatisation of services. take the water supply as an example. water supply is being privatized, infrastructure is being built, but the price of water is rising so much that the poorest of the poor can no longer afford it. or take trade policy. the forced liberalization and market opening as conditions for lending weakens the bargaining power of developing countries in the wto's world trade rounds. all this is contrary to the objectives of european development policy, which, for example, places water at the centre of the fight against poverty or, as we say, of strengthening the negotiating capacity of developing countries in world trade negotiations. so this is the central lever that the world bank needs to change its policy. the reform which is now beginning will not change anything in principle. the so-called selective lending policy which is now to be re-introduced is basically a bankruptcy declaration for over 30 years of world bank policy. in short, this new policy means: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. those who have not properly followed this policy should receive even less money. this division into good performers and bad performers is highly problematic. i believe it is the task of the commission and the council to ensure and to insist that this classification is at least based on clear, transparent and comprehensible criteria, and also to insist that the world bank must fundamentally change its strategy for combating poverty in the context of the un reform, in the context of the millennium development goals.
president of the council. mr president, i should first like to thank the honourable members for this extremely interesting debate and for the very useful messages they have sent to the leadership of the council and also of the commission. i'll pick out two or three questions. i shall begin with the weight of the union in financial institutions, and particularly in the world bank. let me speak for a moment on behalf of the presidency and not as a representative of the council. it is true that if we were shareholders in a private company, we would be mismanaging our share of the capital in that company. but as you know, it's a little bit more complicated and we're not in that configuration. we are in another configuration, political in nature. nevertheless, i must say that the message that the european union must coordinate its positions better within these organisations, and in particular within the world bank, is absolutely necessary because, as many of you have said, we are far below our real weight, our financial weight, but also our political weight. i would like to point out that there may be an article in the treaty which should be read twice and perhaps used as a follow-up to the debate we had this morning. i am referring to article 99 of the treaty, which is also included in the draft constitution and which provides that the member states may, on the basis of a proposal, coordinate their positions more closely within the financial institutions and international financial conferences. i therefore believe that the question of the union's representation in international forums - and particularly in international financial forums - remains open. i do not need to go into the difficulties involved. the second issue you raised, which is somewhat related to the first, is the reform of international financial institutions, in particular the world bank. i believe that the european union has a crucial role to play in this respect. we must indeed - and this was also partly the purpose of the informal meeting with mr wolfowitz - push the new president of the world bank to continue reforming not only the way the world bank works but also its policies. i think that the role of the european union can be even more important if the union speaks with one voice. we are now returning to the question of the european union's weight in international institutions. it is clear that these institutions will have to take better account of the new world balances, and better integrate a number of new international actors and new economic powers, not forgetting the developing countries. the last point concerns development aid policy. the commissioner has given a number of information points on this point. the european union is the largest donor; it provides more than 50% of development aid. i should like to say that we have begun to look at new forms of financing development aid. the last ecofin council worked on these financing methods. you all know the idea that has been put forward of creating certain taxes to precisely respect, or even increase, the rate of development aid, and i can tell you that at its informal meeting in luxembourg on 13 and 14 may, ecofin intends to review these new ways of financing development aid, in particular with a view to ensuring compliance with the objectives of the millennium summit to be held in september.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to express my agreement with all the speeches which have referred to the need for closer coordination of the activities, decision-making and policy orientation of the member states of the european union in the world bank. the commission, through the instruments at its disposal, is trying to influence and guide the policies of the world bank in line with our objectives in development policy and official development assistance. i spoke to you in the opening speech about these memoranda of understanding, these trust funds, through which we act, pooling resources from the world bank and resources from the budget of the european union in a whole series of activities and regions of the world, when we see that these actions are in line with the objectives defined by the european union and our priorities in terms of development aid and policies to support the development of the poorest countries in the world. secondly, i repeat what i said in my opening speech and which has also been echoed by many of your honourable members: the need to move towards a single voice for the european union in the world bank and other international institutions. some of you have cited the entry into force of the constitution as a lever to help us move towards that goal, and it is true that the entry into force of the constitution, the unique personality of the union and the political impetus that the implementation of the constitution implies must help us to move towards that goal. but it is also true, as the presidency of the council has just said, that under the present treaty, under the current provisions in force, the union should be speaking with one voice in many instances, including at the world bank and the international monetary fund, at least as far as the euro area is concerned. but there is another element which will help us, i do not know if it is in accordance with the will of all the member states, but i do believe that it is in accordance with the collective will of the union, of this house, of the commission and of the council. europe wants to be a global player, as mr karas said, but there are countries which are going to be global players and which are demanding reforms in the governing bodies in the way the different countries and regions of the world are represented in the international financial institutions and, in particular, in the world bank. the european union cannot respond to this pressure in a divided way, but must respond unitedly, moving towards a single voice. a comment on the appointment of the new president of the world bank. as you know, the european commission has no part in this procedure, but mr wolfowitz will be taking office as president of the world bank on 1 june. from that point on, we are interested in the world bank's deepening of the positive aspects of mr james d. wolfensohn's management over the last ten years. and in the two occasions that i have had, as a member of the commission, to speak personally to mr wolfowitz in the last few weeks, that is what i have put to him: as from 1 june, the european commission and the union as a whole want the world bank to continue to move forward where it has moved forward in a positive way in the years of mr wolfensohn's administration. and i must say that mr wolfowitz's response so far reflects a commitment, a statement that he wants to continue to look at these positive aspects. i hope that from 1 june we can check it.
the debate on this item is closed.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the situation in kyrgyzstan and central asia.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased to have the opportunity to speak on behalf of the council on these important subjects concerning this vital region of central asia. this region is important for the european union from many points of view: geopolitical, geostrategic and economic. despite a number of recent improvements, the situation in kyrgyzstan remains critical. the new political dynamic is structured along lines of personal and regional allegiances and political parties play a purely nominal role. the presidential election is scheduled for july 10 and a runoff could take place on july 24. the risks of security issues and the uncertain economic situation could complicate the presidential campaign. the electoral campaign for the presidential elections is increasingly turning into a competition between the two main candidates on the country's political scene, namely mr. koulov and mr. akayev. the stability of the country thus depends to a large extent on a possible rapprochement between these two political leaders. a compromise between them could include a commitment to respect the election result, which should be normal in a democracy, provided the losing candidate can hold the post of prime minister. however, informal contacts between the two sides have not yet produced tangible results. in this regard, the main message of the international community, including the osce and the european union, during this presidential campaign should emphasise the importance of holding free and fair elections. however, holding democratic elections will not automatically guarantee a fully successful democratization process. several political issues will remain on the agenda, including constitutional reform, early parliamentary elections, media independence and the development of political life based on organically developed political parties. the question of constitutional reform has already been raised in the electoral debate. the parliament has set up a constitutional council, which should establish the principles of constitutional reform to be implemented after the election results. however, different political actors have quite opposite views on the matter. the economic situation is not improving significantly and public order remains precarious. the seizure of land around bishkek poses acute risks of disorder. ethnic issues are at the heart of political discussion. in general, the situation of ethnic minorities remains a cause for concern. all major international actors, including russia, are in favour of maintaining stability and internal security in kyrgyzstan. the new leadership of the country successfully maintained good relations with all its neighbouring countries, especially with kazakhstan and uzbekistan. the osce's work for kyrgyzstan will soon be finalised and the kyrgyz government is expected to approve it in the coming days. the european commission recently announced its intention to allocate eur 25 million to kyrgyzstan for 2005. as you know, the general situation in central asia remains a matter of concern. several factors create an atmosphere of uncertainty around the countries of this region. first, the most important threats to regional stability in central asia lie in the lack of economic reforms, the persistence of authoritarian regimes and the widespread presence of corruption, organised crime and drug trafficking. we discussed yesterday the question of drugs in afghanistan. these countries are on the drug trail. the political rights of the people are deteriorating in most of these countries. regional cooperation has not reached a sufficient threshold due to lack of confidence and political will among the regional state actors. the impoverishment and lack of growth in the central asian countries have exacerbated socioeconomic tensions. the geopolitical proximity of afghanistan and certain internal factors have allowed islamic extremism to spread and, as i have just pointed out, facilitated drug trafficking. potential conflicts within and between the states of the region can be fuelled by the intermingling of ethnic minorities within the territory of these countries. there are many specific questions to be raised in relation to the situation in some countries in the region. i'll run through them in a second. the parliamentary elections in kazakhstan in september 2004 did not meet the normally accepted international standards. the opposition, despite growing support in the population, only won one seat. the current president is inclined to call for presidential elections before the end of his presidential term in january 2006. the government's grip on the legislative process, the opposition, the media, civil society and financial systems is a cause for concern. the human rights situation is deteriorating. in uzbekistan, the legal opposition was not allowed to participate in the parliamentary elections on 26 december 2004. the country's reform programme has not advanced and poverty has spread further. there is a real risk in this country that islamic fundamentalism is increasingly gaining ground among the population. in turkmenistan, the lack of freedom of expression and democratic debate, the inability to maintain an effective opposition to the government and the absence of any programme of structural reforms are major concerns. finally, in tajikistan, the situation of the country is characterized by two main problems: endemic quarrels between provinces and a prolonged economic crisis. despite the problems and difficulties of the region i have just described, the european union considers relations with the region to be of paramount importance and the european union is ready to support the transition of these countries to efficient market economies but also to functioning democracies. the european commission's deputy director-general for external relations recently visited four central asian republics. on 12 may, the eu-turkmenistan joint committee will be held in ashgabat. an ad hoc meeting will be held on the sidelines of the joint committee with the aim of advancing the dialogue on the human rights issue. a european union troika will meet representatives of the five countries of the region at the end of june in tashkent. the cooperation committee with kyrgyzstan will be held in brussels in june and the cooperation councils with kazakhstan and kyrgyzstan in july.
member of the commission. mr president, it is an honour for me to be here in this plenary session to discuss with you the situation in a region of great strategic importance: central asia and, in particular, the situation in the kyrgyz republic. following the overthrow of president akayev, following the mass protests on 24 march, which were triggered by the violation of international and osce criteria in the parliamentary elections in february and march, both the eu high representative for the common foreign and security policy, mr solana, and the commissioner for foreign affairs, mrs ferrero-waldner, who apologises for not being able to be present at this debate, have encouraged the kyrgyz republic to seek a path towards national reconciliation based on building dialogue and consensus to deepen the process of political reform. the kyrgyz republic has a unique opportunity to establish a genuine multiparty democracy in central asia and to eliminate the corruption that has contributed so much to the recent political crisis. this opportunity is in the hands of the political leaders of that country, who must demonstrate their strong commitment to real progress in the field of political reform. the best way to achieve this is to implement measures to ensure the establishment of a multiparty democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, in line with the international commitments undertaken by kyrgyzstan. i would like to stress that political liberalization and the preparation and holding of free, fair and transparent elections must be applied to the next presidential elections, which according to our information will be held on 10 july. the elections will be closely monitored by the union and the international community as a whole. the democratic credentials of the kyrgyz republic will improve if the interim government implements the recommendations contained in the final mission report of the osce office for human rights and democratic institutions, published in march this year. under the osce umbrella, the union is preparing, through its rapid reaction mechanism, a package of electoral assistance measures and electoral legislative reforms. the union encourages kyrgyzstan to create an environment in which the media and journalists in that country can fully exercise their rights and freedoms, in line with international commitments. i understand that the osce is in a position to provide the authorities with advice on this matter. it is important to fight corruption more effectively in all central asian countries, as it has been identified as one of the main causes of the events in kyrgyzstan. i now want to talk about cooperation between the union and all the countries of central asia. at the end of last year, the union launched an initiative to improve political dialogue with the region. to this end, the eu troika of regional directors met with their central asian counterparts in bishkek last december. this political dialogue between the european union and central asia can certainly help to change the future of relations between the two regions, provided it is developed in a constructive way. the commission welcomes the interest shown by the five central asian countries in this process. the success of the dialogue depends on the degree of involvement of both parties. in this sense, the union will always be in favour of economic liberalisation and, of course, political democratisation in central asia. the dialogue process could focus on common concerns to both regions: the fight against terrorism, drug and human trafficking, money laundering, illegal immigration, energy, transport and increased economic cooperation. political dialogue between the union and central asia would facilitate regional integration in the area and provide political guidance to cooperation between the two areas. the union is considering the next steps to be taken. the meeting between the union troika and the foreign ministers of central asia in tashkent at the end of june will be a good opportunity to continue discussions on the dialogue process. the union encourages the five central asian countries to persevere in the process of political liberalization. the only way for a country to prosper for the benefit of its citizens, to enjoy stability and security, to make a significant contribution to regional integration, is to ensure that economic development goes hand in hand with political liberalisation, the rule of law and the development of an active civil society, one of the essential components of which is freedom of the press. i am convinced that this is the best way to strengthen the ties between central asia and the union. the commission hopes for improved cooperation between the union and the caspian sea countries, as agreed at the ministerial conference on energy and transport held in baku last november. from a political point of view, energy has become a security issue. it is in the interest of both regions to cooperate in order to achieve a more efficient and deeper integration of our energy systems and markets. the intensification of cooperation between the union and central asia depends on both political and economic aspects and, in this context, the union remains ready to help this important region.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this region is often overlooked because it was once hidden in the darkness of the soviet union and had no independent development. today it is a region of great strategic importance - a strategic importance that has to do with the issues of gas, oil, energy supply and similar things, with the growing interest of china in this region, the emerging islamic fundamentalism and also with the fact that some of these countries are going on routes that have to do with drug trafficking. we must see that the increasingly poor development of democracy, the rule of law and human rights makes it increasingly difficult to cooperate with this region, to fulfil existing partnership and cooperation agreements or to conclude or ratify new ones, and that such regimes - as the experience of the elections in kyrgyzstan and previously in ukraine has shown - are becoming less a threat to stability and more a threat to instability. the more instability there is in such a critical geographical situation, the more our interests are affected. i would therefore like to invite us to think about this issue much more in terms of a common strategic concept than in terms of progress on individual points, and to attach importance to genuine support for the democratic process in these countries. i believe that we should try to reach an agreement in the common interest with the united states, which does not regard this country merely as a short-term base camp for afghanistan, and with russia, whose understanding of these developments is often shaped by old ideas. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this is where a new emphasis should be placed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have only a minute, so i want to focus on one aspect and emphasize what i said before: i am particularly concerned that we recognise the importance of the osce in central asia, particularly when it comes to conflict prevention, but also when it comes to crisis management, when it comes to the enforcement of the rule of law, when it comes to helping to enforce human rights and democratic standards. but also think about supporting civil society or working for minorities. we should expressly welcome the activities of the osce in this region, particularly also on the issue of election observation and preparation for the next elections in kyrgyzstan in june 2005, so that they can be held in accordance with international and european standards. in this context, the question of training the police plays a very central role, particularly in kyrgyzstan. in conclusion, i ask the council and the commission to cooperate closely with the osce. in this respect, we should draw on the experience of mr alojz peterle, the osce representative for the region.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
this will be recorded in the minutes and the language services will be asked to check the individual language versions and the contents carefully.
in writing. the directive does not, however, provide a satisfactory solution to the problem of german vocational qualifications. the directive, as amended by german law, leads to the classification of german companions and masters in the same qualification level, although the master undergoes a long and demanding additional training. however, a higher classification can be achieved subsequently by including the professions in annex ii to the directive. we agreed to the compromise in the expectation that the competent "committee for the recognition of professional qualifications" (article 58 of the directive) would accept a corresponding request during the transposition period.
acting president of the council mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, sixty years have passed since the end of the second world war. this commemoration of 8 may 1945, the date of the capitulation of the third reich, is a burning obligation and i would like to congratulate the european parliament for not failing to commemorate 8 may 1945 today. the obligation to remember is a burning obligation. it is especially ardent, i think, for those born after the second world war, the men and women of my generation. and when we remember 8 may 1945, the surrender of german democracy in 1933 and the terrible period between those two dates, we young people, at least in relation to the generation concerned, must do so with great restraint. those of us who were born after the second world war, in 1954, 1955 and later, must remember with a certain reserve because we were not the first to witness the tragedy that befell the european continent. we have not seen, as those before us have seen, the concentration camps and prisons where men were killed, tortured and humiliated to the point of utter degradation. we did not see the battlefields as they did, because we did not have to cross them, death in the soul, not to mention physical death very often. we could not and should not have seen, as they could and should have seen, the long processions of prisoners from all nations passing through europe, in effect constituting a single continental funeral procession. we who were born after the second world war were not faced with dramatic choices, either individually or collectively. we didn't have to say no, we didn't have to say yes, we could live in the post-war sun, all the dramatic choices were spared us. remembering may 8, 1945 is an act that feeds the collective memory. this is very important at a time when direct memories, where the lived experience of war or the immediate post-war - the direct lived with the package of personal experiences and noble feelings - are being transformed into history, with all that history in relation to memories involves distance and so-called objective reading grids. today, the firsthand witnesses of this terrible era in continental history are disappearing. it is moving to see the russian veterans in their trucks on red square, moving to see this long procession of those who fought for them and for us and who, even today, can no longer walk, while we all know where they are going. the obligation to remember is a burning obligation. to remember, for the men and women of my generation, also means that we must remember with restraint but also with a lot of gratitude. first of all, we should be grateful to the generation of our fathers and grandfathers who, after returning from the battlefields, from the concentration camps, from prison, had so many reasons to give up, to do nothing, to mourn their fate. but they rebuilt europe and they made europe the most beautiful continent there is. let us be grateful for the extraordinary achievement of a generation of people who had to fight and who wanted to make peace! (applause) i would like to thank when we remember, when we feel this burning obligation to remember, we must also speak the truth. may 8, 1945, was a day of liberation for europe. may 8, 1945 was also a day of defeat. but it is the defeat of fascism, the defeat of national socialism, the defeat of the capitulation of the democrats to the terror of the war that has been going on since 1933. but it is also war for germany and above all a day of liberation! (beifall) i would like the elected representatives of the german people in this house to say: never were the germans such good neighbours as they are today! (beifall) to tell the truth on 8 may, 9 may and 10 may is also to show gratitude to those who have joined forces and energies with the european forces and energies to free the european continent. i would like to say, not with a delay of 60 years but with a distance, how grateful we europeans must be to those young american and canadian soldiers who, from across the ocean, came to europe to liberate europe, unaware even of the existence of a number of countries whose liberation they helped to bring about. we should never forget that. (applause) my remarks are directed to the soldiers of the red army. what a waste! how many interrupted biographies among the russians who gave twenty-seven million lives for the freedom of europe! it is not necessary to be a fanatic, although i am, with a great love for the russian heart and for the eternal russia, to recognize that russia has earned europe. (applause) i would like to thank i would like to pay particular tribute to a european people who said no when others were tempted too often to say yes. i would like to pay tribute here today to the british people who said no and without whose contribution nothing would have been possible. (applause) i would like to thank but the freedom that was restored in early may 1945 was not the same everywhere. we in our western part of europe, comfortably established in our old democracies, could, after the second world war, live in freedom, in a newfound freedom for which we knew the price. but those who lived in central europe and those who lived in the east did not have the freedom that we have had for fifty years. (applause) they were subject to the law of another. the baltic states, whose arrival in europe i would like to welcome and to whom i would like to say how proud we are to have them with us, have been forcibly incorporated into a whole that was not theirs. they were not subject to the pax libertatis, but to the pax sovietika, which was not theirs. these peoples, these nations, who have gone from misery to misery, have suffered more than all the other europeans. (applause) the other countries of central and eastern europe have not experienced this extraordinary volume of self-determination that we have been able to experience in our region of europe. they weren't free. they were to operate under the system of principle that was imposed upon them. i say this with great sadness in my heart, all the evil that is being said today about enlargement. but now, when the second world war has finally ended, i say: long live enlargement! (applause) this post-war europe, which, without the war, could never have become the europe it is today; this europe, born of the ashes of war, would never have come into being if it had not been for the so-called founding fathers of europe - the schumans, the bechs, the adenauers, the gasperians and others - who, for the first time in the history of the continent, made of that post-war phrase 'never again war', a hope, a prayer and a programme. today we must remember with emotion and gratitude those who had the courage to say yes after saying no. they could not have done so if they had not been moved by the noble and deep feelings of their people. nothing great is done against the will of the people. the reason why europe was able to do what we did after the second world war is that the people of europe never again wanted to experience what the european continent had experienced as a tragedy, twice, in the 20th century. there are the founding fathers of europe who are known; there are the people who walked in the shadows and shared these noble sentiments, and then there are the philosophers, the thinkers, the politicians who, too often, are not remembered: leon blum, who dreamed of europe in a french prison; the great spinelli imprisoned on an italian island by the italian fascists; others who have no name but to whom we owe much. i would like to pay tribute to those who, forgotten or anonymous, made possible what was achieved after the second world war. (applause) i would like to thank there was the free part of europe and the part of europe which was paralysed by that fatal historical decree, the yalta decree, which wanted europe to be divided forever into two parts, parts which very often looked at each other as dogs of the mud and between which we were too often unable to build bridges. the cold war - that is how the other tragic period of european history was affectionately called - paralysed europe's best energies; it has not allowed europe's best talents to express all that they would have been able to do if they had been allowed to. i was born in december 1954, but i prefer to say i was born in 1955. i grew up first of all in respect for the performance of my father's generation, if i may venture this digression, which suffered a doubly terrible fate, because luxembourgers born between 1920 and 1927 were forcibly conscripted into the wehrmacht and wore a uniform that was not theirs, a uniform that served ambitions that were not theirs. terrible fate to have to wear the uniform of one who is your enemy. the same applies to the alsatians and lorrainians to whom i pay tribute. i grew up in the atmosphere of the cold war, where the world, it seemed, was easier to understand. there were those who were with us and those who were against us. we didn't know why we loved those who were with us, but we knew we had to hate the others. we knew the threat was on the other side and those on the other side thought the threat was on our side. what a waste of opportunity! what a waste of time in europe, with all this stupid post-war analysis. let us rejoice today that we no longer have to resort to the relentless logic of the cold war and that we can make peace between the two parts of europe. (applause) i would like to thank i often think - perhaps because i am not - of the wise men of europe, churchill for example. the great churchill, in 1947, when the first congress of the european movement met in the hague and when the idea of creating the council of europe was born in the face of the soviet union's refusal to allow the other countries of central and eastern europe to participate both in the marshall plan and in the construction of the council of europe, declared with this prophetic gift of his: 'we are starting today in the west what we will one day finish in the east.' ladies and gentlemen, let us be proud of what we have achieved. (applause) i would like to thank i am reminded of the words of victor hugo who, in 1949, wrote: "a day will come in europe when the only battlefield will be the opening of markets to ideas; "will come to europe the day bullets and bombs are replaced by votes". we should be proud of what we have achieved today. let us be proud to say so in the european parliament, the elected representative of the peoples of europe, whose members are the heirs of those who said no when they had to say no, the heirs of those who said yes when the only option left was yes. let us be grateful to those who said no when it was time to say no and let us be proud of all those who today say yes to the great europe, to the europe which has seen its history and its geography reconciled. let us be proud of those who do not want europe to become a free trade area and let us be proud of those who, like us, like millions of others, think that europe is a complicated continent that deserves better than a free trade area. let us be proud of the europe that those who came before us built and let us behave as worthy heirs. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
president of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, it is a great honour for me to represent the commission at this ceremony in the parliament which represents the europeans. we are looking at the past and the future at the same time today. we are here to remember, to acknowledge and also to build. but first, let's look at the past. the greatest conflict on a global scale has been a source of conflicting feelings for all who survived it. a source of relief for many, a source of exhaustion, no doubt, often a source of fear about the future, the fear that the post-war was not better and might even be worse than what had been before. that's why we remember. we remember the scale of the destruction that struck europe in particular. hardly any country has escaped unscathed. what some have called the "european civil war" has witnessed the inhumanity that man can prove to man. we in europe, who are often rightly proud of the great achievements of our civilization, our culture and the great works of the european spirit, must humbly consider that 20th century europe also experienced some of the greatest horrors that mankind has ever committed. however, we should also remember the great stories of triumph over adversity, the personal journeys which so many europeans made to find a better life, some crossing mountains and seas to reach their goal of a happy, peaceful existence. some found it simply by returning home. we remember those who did not have that chance, those for whom the light of freedom went out almost as soon as they saw it; those for whom one nightmare was replaced by another. let us recognize that something remarkable came out of the ruins of europe in 1945. let me give you a quote from one of the visionaries of that time, speaking in zurich in 1946. he said: "i am now going to say something that will astonish you. the first step in the recreation of the european family must be a partnership between france and germany. in this way only can france recover the moral and cultural leadership of europe. there can be no revival of europe without [...] a spiritually great germany. churchill was right. it's easy to forget now the courage it took to say those words at that time. what he said was astonishing. even more astonishing were the deeds that turned those words into reality. we should remember the extraordinary determination shown by robert schuman, jean monnet, konrad adenauer, alcide de gasperi and others and what they achieved, reconstructing rather than retreating into retribution. we should also remember and recognise the vision of transatlantic leaders who helped shoulder the burden of reconstruction rather than turn their backs on it. before we get too carried away, let's pause, because what the founding fathers started was remarkable but incomplete. as the commission said in its declaration of 9 may: for millions, true freedom was only to come with the fall of the berlin wall, not the end of the second world war. after 1945 they lost their liberties and opportunities almost as soon as they had regained them. in some cases they lost political control of their countries; in others, they lost their independence. for many people in europe the end of the war meant peace and freedom; but for some it meant only peace, not yet freedom. we should not forget what europe was. sixty years ago here on this continent we experienced the holocaust. about 30 years ago several countries in southern europe, including my own, were still living under dictatorships. until about 15 years ago half of europe did not enjoy freedom and democracy. that is why i have difficulty in understanding how we can fail to be optimistic about the future of europe when we see where europe is now compared to where it was only a few years ago. (applause) however, that, fortunately, was not the end of the story. what european leaders of the 1940s and 1950s built was a light and a magnet: a light through dark years for those who had no prospect of the peace, prosperity and stability that other europeans enjoyed, and an extraordinary, powerful force of attraction for those peoples and countries that were breaking free and saw the european community - as it was called then - as the catalyst for the transformation of their countries. for my generation, europe was always synonymous with democracy. as an 18-year-old, i, with others, was determined to set my own country free from a deadening, authoritarian, backward regime. that is why i and many people of my generation especially admire the extraordinary efforts of the peoples of the czech republic, estonia, hungary, latvia, lithuania, poland, slovakia, slovenia and romania and bulgaria to fight for democracy, and how they relate the very idea of europe to that of democracy. it should be, and is, with enormous pride that the european union and its institutions embrace those new members and peoples, as well as those of malta and cyprus. so this transformation is worthy of recognition and commemoration. because it appears at times to be almost forgotten. today it is too easy to take for granted the firm foundations of the new europe in which we live, a europe of freedom and shared values. that is why it must be said: the european union cannot be a victim of its own success. the integration of such a variety of members united by a common project is a truly extraordinary achievement. it is an extraordinary challenge, one which concerns us all. i am convinced that the implementation of this formidable project, which will soon involve 27 countries and 500 million people, will continue in spite of the turbulence which will inevitably arise from time to time. however, this implementation is sometimes so peacefully done that we run the risk of forgetting the foregoing. the accounts of the murderous conflicts ravaging europe seem now to be confined to the history books. they were still making the news ten years ago, when there were massacres in some balkan countries. on our continent, one can say: never again! it is easy to say this, but the history of europe has shown that we must work for peace and not have it for the sake of it. this is probably not a very good prospect, because today in europe there are problems and fears. in berlin, in the grand building which once housed what the gdr called its parliament, is inscribed the word zweifel, which means 'doubt'. there are doubts and fears, especially among young people. their fears are serious: the fear of finding or not finding a job, the fear of a more competitive world sometimes perceived as a challenge. it is more a question of the fear of finding or not finding an employment, not the fear of finding or not finding one's own country. it is now necessary to find an effective way of addressing the real or perceived difficulties connected with the integration of markets. there is no question of armed conflict between competitors who become adversaries or enemies. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we must have the same imagination and courage. let us remember that the ambitious partnership we have concluded in europe has been the source of the peaceful revolutions which have brought freedom and democracy to millions of europeans! the example of europe - the europe of the six, the ten, the twelve, the fifteen and now the twenty-five - has been the real driving force behind democratization in southern europe, latin america and, subsequently, central and eastern europe. we must remember that freedom is the driving force behind growth, employment and investment, and that it offers a greater number of europeans the chance of a better life. the vitality of democracy and the modernity of our societies are evidence of our capacity to reinvent our continent. from its internal market to its external borders, from the promotion of internal cohesion to the defence of sustainable development and the environment, from the dimension of solidarity to that of justice in the four corners of the globe - because we do not want a europe that is self-sufficient - the european union is still building europe. it does so by taking concrete steps to improve the daily lives of its citizens. the ratification of the constitution will consolidate these achievements and lay the foundations for even more important progress in the future. today, therefore, let us remember this terrible war and its aftermath. in our work for the future, let us be inspired by the visionary ambition and determination of the leaders and citizens who have gone before us, from reconciliation to cooperation and from cooperation to the union! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. 1945 sixty years ago europe is a field of ruins. a barbaric war has claimed over 55 million lives. millions and millions of people are uprooted, millions are displaced or displaced, fathers without sons, women without husbands, children without fathers. my father was a private soldier and went missing in late march 1945. we learned much later that he had fallen; i never saw him. in 1945, many of europe's cities were devastated. europe's economy is in ruins. the name 'europe' is a source of fear and terror throughout the world. there can be no doubt about the responsibility for the outbreak of the second world war: the national socialist regime of injustice in germany increased its racial madness and power claim to an inferno of aggression against all other peoples of europe. the holocaust of the jews of europe became his worst crime. national socialist totalitarianism led all of europe to ruin. in the end, the german people themselves became one of his victims. but few were victorious in 1945. there were lucky and unlucky survivors, some in western europe, others in central and eastern europe. in the west, with the help of the united states, a new life was born, one of freedom, respect for human dignity, democracy and a market economy based on the rule of law. winston churchill - as has been pointed out - drew up the vision of a united states of europe, and i would add that without britain europe would never be complete. after 1945, europe was rebuilt from its western atlantic edge. exhausted but happy to be free to start over, the peoples of western europe rallied. it is always robert schuman's merit to have helped the germans to make this new beginning. without france's greatness, europe would have remained an empty idea. in the midst of the new beginning of a european union with a common constitution, i would add that europe will need france's constructive cooperation more than ever in the future. (applause from the centre) the peoples of central, eastern and south-eastern europe were also filled with hope for a new beginning in 1945. as people of the same cultural area that we all share in europe, they hoped for a new chance at life in freedom and peace. they learned the hard way that peace without freedom was only half the freedom from the yoke of totalitarian injustice. the soviet takeover shattered their hopes. in 1945 the national socialist totalitarianism was defeated. but stalinist totalitarianism has divided europe and has overwhelmed the peoples of central, eastern and south-eastern europe with its unjust regimes. but there was hope among the unfortunate survivors of the second world war: the hope of a common europe, spiritually, morally and politically renewed, with prospects of prosperity for all its citizens. this hope they finally realized in a peaceful revolution and solidarność is the expression for this. but it took decades for the wall to be broken. (applause from the centre) if we are to hold this debate together today - and i have been a member of this parliament since it was first directly elected in 1979 - with dignity and the necessary seriousness, it is a happy hour for me that europe is united today and that we have among us equal colleagues from eight central european nations. (applause from the centre) in 1989 the double burden of totalitarianism in europe ended. 1989 taught us the power of europe's values for all of us and how much we always depend on the example of the brave to uphold our freedom. after 1989, europe could once again breathe with both lungs, as the unforgettable and great pope john paul ii said. (applause from the centre) the peoples of western europe have made a valuable, indispensable and lasting contribution to this process. the construction of the european union with common values, with human dignity at its core, and the transnational integration into a legally binding community of freedom were the logical response to the chance of the end of the war. the european union is a project of peace and freedom. the common path of a united europe is the opportunity and the task of all europeans. now let us build together a europe that defends its values for all its citizens. the only answer europe can give to war and totalitarianism is to continue steadily along the path of the common european union of peoples and states, with conviction and acceptance of the diversity which is europe's strength and beauty. the current debate on the european constitution is a great opportunity to reaffirm these foundations, because for the first time in european history our values, our ideals, are enshrined in a constitution. europe is not simply a political construct. europe is a spiritual habitat. the response to the terrible war, whose end we are gratefully remembering today, therefore had to be a moral response: never again unfreedom leading to war, never again war leading to unfreedom! this is the sum total of the drive to build a new europe: a europe which rejects totalitarianism, rejects nationalist arrogance, rejects egalitarian hostility to man, a europe which rejects the hegemonic aspirations of individual states, a europe which is committed to the inherent dignity of each individual, to the balance of interests between social groups and peoples, a europe of respect and diversity, indeed strength through this diversity, a europe of democracy and law. the internal reconciliation of the peoples and states of europe has made great progress. we want and must complete this work of internal reconciliation, including with the people of russia and the people of the russian federation. in the new phase of our history, however, europe will also have to seek balance in the world and with the world around us more than ever before. the wars of europe became world wars. the european union must be a win-win for the world. we can be grateful that colleagues - and i thank in particular my colleague elmar brok - have written a resolution which expresses our values tomorrow. we are thinking at this hour of all the victims of the second world war, of all the suffering and destruction. we are reminded of the close link between peace and freedom and of the need to place our work at the service of people, including dialogue between cultures. wherever we succeed in this dialogue with the world, we will defend the values that carry us into the future. so this day of remembrance can give us a new mission, a mission to contribute to a better, more peaceful and free world. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when we think of may 8, 1945, we think of two phases in the commemoration of that day. we are thinking of the period before 8 may and the period afterwards. it is impossible for any german member of this house to think of that date without remembering that he is a german. i also represent in my group the german members of parliament who come from the country and who today represent the country which wanted this war, prepared it, led it and organized it with ruthlessness. but i also represent members of parliament from the country which was the first to fall victim to this german army: poland. and i represent represent the delegates from the countries that led the allies, whose entire power was necessary to bring down hitler: from britain, from france. i am sitting next to poul nyrup rasmussen, the long-time prime minister of denmark, a country that was invaded by hitler's germany in the night and fog, and where my father was an occupation soldier. i also represent representatives of countries which suffered under dictatorships for a long time after the second world war. in my group there is a lawyer who has defended the victims of the franco regime. in my group there is a victim of the franco regime who was tortured in the cellars of the secret police. in my group there are colleagues from portugal and greece who, like you, mr president of the commission, were young men and women who cheered when the dictators were driven from their countries. in my group there is józef pinior, my friend who will speak after me on behalf of our group, who as a trade unionist and social democrat was imprisoned in the communist torture prisons. i have the privilege of speaking for all these people. i have this privilege because of the european union. we owe it to this unifying work of the men and women who took charge on may 8, 1945. the president of the council has pointed out that on 8 may 1945 consequences had to be drawn. and the right consequences have been drawn. the history of the european union, the history of europe after 8 may 1945, is a success story. it's a story that grew out of the rubble and became a firm resolve: never again! that "never again" was not part of the agreement. it was put into forms, forms in which we are working today, from which we are benefiting today, which lead to me being able to represent represent representatives of the jewish faith in my group; i am very pleased that there are members of parliament who are muslims in my group. i would like to say that there are colleagues in my group who have suffered and others who have learned from those who have suffered. and that we can come to a common ground by saying one thing: the lesson of may 8th must be. if this 'never again' is to last, it must be fought for anew every day. the fight for this democracy, for this europe, is a daily one. let us remember the causes today, the time before. the time before that is marked by a realization. it is a singular event in human history that a state has defined its state goal as the extermination of other peoples, other races. never before or since has there been a state that justified its own existence by saying: we exist as a state in order to exterminate the jews, the slavs, the roma and sinti, the disabled. this is a singular event in human history. that's the special thing about the third reich. the nazis wanted to see the jews of europe destroyed. i was at the yad vashem memorial in jerusalem a few weeks ago. i have descended into the corridors and hallways of the basement, where the fates of millions of victims are depicted. the director of jad vaschem, who showed me around, told me, "every day i go down to this hell and see it. it's a hell of a picture, just them. and then i go up the stairs and i walk down a corridor in this new museum, and then a large glass front opens up, and in the sunlight is the city of jerusalem. "every day", the director of jad vaschem tells me, "when i come out of hell and see this picture, i know they didn't make it". we are alive. we did it, not the nazis. every memorial, every day of remembrance, every name we mention is a victory over these criminals, because they wanted nothing left. but if we remember, there will always be the jewish people, there will always be the roma and sinti, there will always be those who have been killed for political reasons, there will always be the handicapped. they're in our memories, and they live with it. (applause) so many victims and so many names. anne frank was a little jewish girl whose only crime was being a little jewish girl in amsterdam. on a day like this, let's think of anne frank. sophie scholl was a young german student whose only crime was being an upright person, and who was beheaded at the age of 18 for distributing leaflets against the nazi regime. i am thinking also of krzysztof baczynski, a young polish poet who was shot by a german sniper in warsaw. three names among 55 million victims! three names, but three names that are called in place of all the other victims. i repeat, three names we remember, and they represent all the names we should remember. we have often been asked in recent weeks what the purpose of this european union is, and we are asked: what is the purpose of this european union? what we are describing in our speeches today is the meaning of this union. that this work of unification, this overcoming of division, this casting aside of racism, this exclusion from the community of democrats of all those who are anti-semites, who are racists, who are nazis, has remained to this day, the stigmatization of these criminals, the naming of their deeds, the remembrance of this is the basis, the moral and spiritual basis for our european union. our fathers and forefathers built this. in the meantime, europe has a legacy. this is no longer a new union. she's 60 years old now. it was created on may 8, 1945. we have a legacy to manage, today, to pass on. if we nurture this legacy, on the basis of the obligation to remember that the third reich was the moral lowest point of humanity and that the right consequences have been drawn by creating this union, then we as european politicians will ensure that the young men and women in the stands of this parliament have a brighter future than the past of their fathers and grandfathers. (parliament adopted the resolution)
president of the council. i regret that i cannot answer more than what i have already said, but i do take note of the honourable member's comments. i am sure that every country must, and i share this view, respect international labour laws. i would like to stress this point and i am sure that it can be raised in the context of relations with the united states.
president of the council. the council is closely following developments in the situation of minority rights in the western balkans. the latest analysis on minority rights in serbia and montenegro is the one presented by the commission in its feasibility study for the opening of negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement with serbia and montenegro. the situation of minority rights in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was described in the commission's last annual report drawn up in the framework of the stabilisation and association process. in general, the situation of minority rights in the western balkans region has improved in recent years, although significant progress still needs to be made. instead of drawing a comparison between the arrangements for minorities in serbia and montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the council intends to continue to encourage the two countries, in view of their very specific situation, to pursue a minority policy fully in line with european standards.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ohrid agreement sets very strict standards for the protection of minorities in macedonia. i would ask that we not measure with two different scales. i see that danger a little. the problem is that the european parliament has not yet been able to reach a decision on the matter.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, i should also like to welcome the secretary-general, ladies and gentlemen. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr dombrovskis, very warmly for the ungrateful effort he has made - and continues to make - in looking after parliament's budget. this is a task that does not just bring praise and joy to your colleagues. he is here to undertake this task with great passion. i would like to begin by thanking the epp-ed group very warmly for this. i would just like to address a subject which is very close to my heart, namely the question: how much money does the european parliament need? there is a figure in this house which is being carried like a gospel: 20% of the administrative costs. this year alone, in 2005, mr secretary-general, some 50 million euros will not be needed because we have to keep that great figure of 20%, but we have no expenditure for it. and the whole thing is to be continued in 2006. the budgetary estimate which the bureau has adopted today already provides for an unused sum of eur 90 million. i really wonder what this is all about. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the future. i have to ask myself whether this is the right strategy in the long term. my recommendation is that we should not put into the budget any money we do not need, money we will probably not need next year! i would have been very pleased if mr onesta, who has drawn up amendments on this subject, were here today and would have stood up for what he has asked for. but that is also why these funds are not being used and not being spent on other things, because we know that we will need funds of that size when the statute comes into force. i would really ask for a parliamentary budget that is thrifty!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i have just come from a public meeting on the european constitution in lorraine, where the majority of the people were in favour of having a european foreign minister and of the foreign minister also having a foreign service. i am confident that people all over europe see this as well. the eurobarometer is constantly telling us that people want europe to speak with one voice in the world. the provisions are also enshrined in the european constitution. the foreign minister would be the face and voice of european values and european interests in the world. he needs this foreign service to do his job. the double hat makes the construction a bit complex, and it's our job to find a solution here. i believe that the solution must be found in the spirit of the constitution. what is the spirit of the constitution? the spirit of the constitution is that the former second pillar is to be integrated into the community method with a more intergovernmental method. this is the purpose of the debates in the convention and the intergovernmental conference, namely to integrate the former second pillar into a european union with legal personality, which should act from a single point of view both internally and externally. article 296 of the constitution states that the foreign service is established by a council decision after consulting parliament and obtaining the commission's consent. that's the point today. the commission has the power to determine the profile of this external service. we in parliament were concerned that the work in the council was much more advanced, that there were deadlocks and that there were already concrete ideas, whereas in the commission the approach was too hesitant and too reserved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is the administrative and financial organisation of the service? how is parliament's control in this area possible? we should do everything we can to prevent a third bureaucracy from being created alongside the administration of the commission and the council. that would be the worst thing. the question then naturally arises: is the foreign service located in the council or in the commission? the background to this is that we already have delegations in many countries, which can be expanded into eu embassies. i think it would be right and sensible to place this department, from an organisational and budgetary point of view, in the commission and not in the council. the role of the council would nevertheless be fully preserved, because it is quite clear that this service must implement the decisions taken by the council's political body. such dual models exist in many countries, and in germany too we have this situation at certain administrative levels, where one office serves both the municipalities and the state. it's not unknown; it could work here. we must also decide what this foreign service is to do and what it is not to do. i do not think it would make sense to create a mammoth authority covering everything from the trade department of commissioner mandelson to the development department of commissioner michel. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that the foreign minister is vice-president of the commission naturally allows for clustering and for coherence to be established in this area. we are looking forward to hearing what the commission has to say and hope that the spirit of the constitution will be respected and implemented in this important matter.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the question of the european external action service, a comprehensive administrative undertaking, is probably the most important structural question that will emerge from the constitution as regards the future executive structure of the european union. i think that this really needs to be brought to fruition, because it is crucial to the way in which europe can play its role in the world, and it would be wrong to take a defensive approach to this question by saying: the foreign minister should do what the council is doing today. then it's put together. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the foreign minister is responsible for determining the content of all foreign policy, no matter where it is based. the result will be a dynamic where everything falls under the purview of the foreign secretary. it follows that a defensive attitude on the part of the commission is not going to help, but that it must be offensive and not allow matters to be decided elsewhere and only certain areas to remain within its remit. it must instead ensure that everything is decided in the commission. that will be the key question. mr dehaene, who will speak shortly, knows as the head of the convention's working party what the convention's intention was, namely to promote the community method here. commissioner, i am grateful to you for expressing your desire, as does parliament, to promote the community method. but does this mean that we have this single european external action service, which is organisational, administrative and budgetary linked to the commission? this clear question has not been answered. we therefore ask you to answer them in a second reading. we are willing to support the commission, and it was parliamentarians who pushed through the rule that this can only be done with the commission's approval in the convention and in the intergovernmental conference. i hope that the commission will have the courage to take this opportunity and to take this position. it cannot be decided against, and i hope that it will not only remain the general community method, but that you will follow the position of the declaration put forward by mr leinen, according to which the external service is administratively, organisationally and budgetarily linked to the commission, but of course, in the case of council competence, it must carry out the council's decision in good faith. i believe that in the dynamic of the development of administrations, this is the only way that serves your interests and ours. perhaps you could be more specific in your answers, so that i can understand them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for saying that nothing can be decided against the commission. that's what the constitution says. i am grateful that this has been established once again. the point is not that parliament's positions can be taken into account, but that we asked what the commission's negotiating position is, that is to say, whether it is in favour of linking this service to the commission or not. we'd be very interested to hear your thoughts on this. it is not a question of taking parliament's position into account, but we are here today to help the commission so that it does not become a machine for the internal market and the foreign minister has his own powerful position, but so that the commission is also the administrative vehicle for the european union's role in the world. mr president, perhaps you can give me the legal basis on which we can conclude that parliament must take the commission hunting.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would just like to draw attention to a few points which are important in the context of this report. it is the first report to be presented by the committee this year. we shall be preparing a second one in the second half of the year, which will then follow, observe and comment on the commission's reflections and negotiations. the question which arises from this is, at least for the committee and my group, as follows: what can be done to ensure that we are supportive, that there is a positive outcome in hong kong - it will not be a final conclusion, but it would be good to have a positive outcome - so that the negotiations can then proceed smoothly, but also to ensure that our great demand, expressed in the title 'development round', is actually implemented and to ensure that the interests of the european union are represented? this is of course very complex, if you bear in mind that cancún did not turn out very well, we have a very difficult start and the negotiations are not on very solid footing at the moment. and then there's the problem that emerging markets are struggling to take their lead, their global role in the world. we see this very clearly in china - we will have the debate on china tomorrow - but we also see it in brazil and, of course, in india. so a very difficult, complex situation. there is another aspect to consider. i would ask you, commissioner, to take up again the question of how the interaction between the european parliament and the committee on international trade and you will actually develop during the course of this year. if we had the new treaty now, parliament would have much more power, we would have more direct consultation mechanisms. we have very good, well-established mechanisms, but they are all of a rather informal nature. but at the same time, the citizens want us to be more directly involved, to have more power and authority in a process that involves negotiations on agriculture, but also on the services sector. these are very sensitive areas, which are also very controversial and on which there are no clear positions in our group, in this house or in the population. so how can we ensure that this year we shape this critical process between the commission, the committee and the european parliament as a whole in such a way that we achieve fruitful cooperation that goes beyond what we have already established and that includes the critical areas? if you have to make changes in the negotiations, if you have to make changes in the attitude - and you will certainly have to do that, commissioner - how can we ensure that cooperation is so close that we can actually live up to the responsibility we have towards the citizens?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we must make progress in this round of negotiations, in this reform and liberalization. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and the european union has also expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. the success of doha is therefore a sign of the fight against poverty, of a large and effective development aid and thus of a chance for prosperity and social justice for all the people of this planet. we must seize this opportunity in the interests of the people of europe and in the interests of the people of the world. i would like to take up a subject which mrs mann and mrs lucas have just raised, namely citizen participation. we're very familiar with the images of the battle of seattle. we are seeing the keyword globalization being seen by more and more people as a threat rather than an opportunity. we see in europe generations of students leaving school without having learned the basics of the social market economy and world trade, and therefore they are open to misinformation and false campaigns. we also see that our media almost exclusively report on the relocation of production and not on the creation of new jobs or additional wealth through world trade. we are seeing that this is leading to ever greater insecurity among the people, and we are seeing that radical groups such as attac, etc., are receiving european funds and are using this money to work against the common interest and to disinform and frighten people. i therefore ask the commission, mr mandelson, to draw up a concept which, in parallel with the negotiations, will enable us to promote openly the idea of free and fair world trade among our citizens, so that we can convince people in europe and the world of the benefits of world trade and help them to take the right and necessary path. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have heard a lot about fair trade and solidarity tonight. the rapporteur wants it for the benefit of all. mr caspary tells us how 500 billion will make everyone rich and happy. i have the impression that commissioner mandelson also thinks that if we abandon agricultural production here, the third world will be prosperous. i do not share these idealistic positions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. you'd have to look a little closer. i want to do that. mr mandelson has spoken of the need to end restricted market access, above all for foodstuffs. mr mandelson, the european union is the largest food importing area in the world, so it is not a question of market access but a question of the conditions under which products are brought to market here. if the european union has given free market access to the least developed countries, that free market access does not automatically make them rich, but we must ask ourselves what conditions apply to that free market access. if they can get their products at prices that match our prices, then they can develop their economies. but if these countries are bought by the multinationals of the world below the poverty line, they will perish! they come to our market with prices that then destroy our agriculture. you talked about proactively moving towards service. mr mandelson, we cannot all cut each other's hair, but we must also produce something! in agriculture we need services through production. we are providing a great service to european society in the form of the cultural landscape, and for that the farmers must be paid on local terms. on the world market, you can buy professors, bankers and even commissioners cheaper than the products in the agricultural sector. so we have to talk about the terms, and that means balance and fair terms. it's not easy. it is easy to define the concept of 'free' in a quantitative way, but we must try to define it in a qualitative way! it was the right move to abolish export subsidies in an area which is one of the largest importers. but to say, let the world come to us and we will stop our production, that is just nonsense! we must have a qualified external protection system, where the conditions imposed on production here and on our farmers are also applied in these countries. and we must create the conditions, the prices and the levels so that these countries can develop their economies and not be pushed below the poverty line and the farmers here are ruined! mr mandelson, i hope that we can discuss this a little longer and more intensively with you in the committee on agriculture.
the commission has already done so. the mandate given to the commission in 1999 proved unenforceable both in the seattle and cancún negotiations. i believe that this has been done rightly. the conclusion should therefore have been to give the commission a new mandate, based not on more liberalization and market opening but on the organization of genuinely fair trade between the most unequally developed countries on earth. fair trade means establishing a system where all stakeholders can actually see and take advantage of development opportunities. this may mean protecting their markets for certain countries until the regional economy is strong enough to withstand foreign competition. in other regions, this may mean opening up the market to other suppliers to provide export opportunities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. agreements such as gats or nama can give developing countries the chance to build up their own industrial and service structures, while developing high environmental and social standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when we talk about the doha development agenda, the very term says that it must be about development, and it cannot be about market opening alone. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection. this is more important to us than the singapore issues, even though it seems that they have been reduced from four to two. it is about creating trading systems that allow stable prices for coffee, cocoa, textiles, bananas, cotton, sugar and many, many other products. the right approach, in my view, is not more competition but more cooperation. the export subsidies for the large agricultural companies must be abolished. there must be no attempt to liberalize public services, especially water. the un institutions, such as unctad and the ilo, must also be given greater weight in development matters, in addition to the wto. the european union must respond differently to the demands of the developing countries to enforce mode 4 than it has done so far. it is not equal rights to ask developing countries to open their markets to goods, services and capital, while the european union keeps its markets closed to the free movement of workers, especially those with lower qualifications. if we want world trade to be of value, we must first ensure that it is balanced, otherwise trade will not promote progress but will increase the gap between rich and poor. mr. caspary, i really want to say this to you: anyone who calls attac a radical group has not understood that democracy lives on the existence of different views!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a brief statement: it is a misinterpretation of mr mandelson to assume that i do not want to deal with world poverty. it is true that i and our group are concerned about how we can make the people who live in poverty share in our wealth. we also have clear ideas about how we do it. mr mandelson, i hope we can get a little deeper into the debate so that you can better interpret our ideas.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to respond to this debate. it is important. it raises some very serious issues for us, and i am very glad this initiative has been taken. i am also very grateful to the distinguished chairman of the committee on international trade for making his points in such a balanced and moderate, but no less serious way. i agree that we have a great challenge on our hands to bring about the progressive integration of china to the global economy and to the international trading system. we also have a responsibility to those whom you represent, and to whom others of us are accountable and are answerable, to smooth these changes in the best way we possibly can. it is true that in one sense china is testing the limits of what is acceptable, as the honourable member said. another way of putting it, however, is that china is presenting a competitive challenge to us in europe to which we need to adjust. now many have. in some cases though that adjustment remains to be made and we have to assist people in doing so. my broad view is that china’s renaissance in recent years brings with it many implications for the european union and it is essential that we equip ourselves properly to deal with these challenges. i believe that china’s astonishing economic growth will be good, not only for china but also for europe and for the rest of the world. that makes it all the more important that we build the sort of dynamic relationship with china that is based on partnership, cooperation and respect, not just for each other, but for a rules-based multilateral economic system. it is against that backcloth that i want to address two sets of issues this morning: first of all, the appropriate response we need to make to textiles imports from china and, secondly, what we need to do to continue to push china on its wto implementation record and in particular its record of enforcement of intellectual property rights. i shall first address the issue of textiles. the level of textiles imports and the dramatic increase that we have seen since the beginning of this year, when textile quotas were finally removed, has become a very sensitive topic in many of our member states. there are many who have serious concerns and anxieties. it is clear why and i understand those anxieties. i am confident that our response is both appropriate and proportionate, but also legally defensible. we have to satisfy both those requirements, basing our response on facts and data. we need to act with a degree of caution, but also determination. the commission guidelines on the use of a safeguard mechanism were intended to equip us to respond effectively to any unreasonable surge in imports from china. as i am sure you know, the commission has now launched investigations into nine categories of chinese textile exports to the eu based on import statistics for the first quarter of this year. in all these categories, import volumes for chinese textiles have now risen above the ‘alert levels’ defined by the commission. i always said that i would act on the basis of the relevant data and i am doing so now. now that the alert mechanism has been activated, i have set up an experienced task force to conduct a full and rapid investigation into these named categories. it will reach its conclusions within a maximum of 60 days. this investigation will determine whether market disruption in europe and elsewhere really has occurred. we will also have to consider the actual damage to producer interests, set against the consumer benefits involved. if it proves necessary and justified, i will use the safeguard powers at our disposal. a number of other categories appear to give cause for concern, but after careful consideration i have decided that further analysis of the data is required. this is being undertaken. in addition, there have been requests for the application of the urgency procedure foreseen by the guidelines. this would mean going directly to formal consultations with china under the wto without an investigation, if there is evidence that irreparable damage will be caused to eu industry in the absence of such a course of action. my services are currently analysing these requests. in parallel, i have actively engaged with the chinese authorities to give them advance warning wherever possible, to urge them to provide concrete evidence that the measures they have put in place are having an effect, and to explore whether they cannot do more and indeed to urge them to do so. i have launched informal consultations with china in an attempt to find a sustainable solution for all parties. this was high on my agenda last week in paris when i met with the chinese trade minister bo xilai. my message to minister bo was that to avoid the eu having to take action, china needs to give a stronger response to curb its export growth in the short term. i believe that my message was received loud and clear. i have noted the statements made by the chinese prime minister wen jiabao yesterday in beijing and i would like to welcome the fact that china now understands the acute concerns of certain member states, as wen jiabao acknowledged yesterday in beijing, and that china prefers, as he said, a solution based on dialogue and cooperation. i also welcome the fact that china considers the need to resolve this issue as amongst china’s primary interests in relation to the eu. i noted with particular interest the statement by wen jiabao that, in addition to the measures already taken to curb textiles export growth, china will take even stronger measures in the near future. i welcome this, but i also believe that the effects need to be felt quickly if they are to stay our hand in any action that we might consider taking. it is imperative that china explain in detail, and quickly, the type of additional measures it intends to adopt and what consequences these will have on future trade flows. i am looking forward to receiving such information as a matter of great urgency. failing to receive such concrete information quickly would narrow the options available to the eu to resolve this issue and could leave me with no alternative other than to act under the wto. i have a team of officials in beijing this week. they are meeting chinese counterparts as we speak now, to follow up on my discussions with minister bo last week and on yesterday’s statements by prime minister wen jiabao. let me turn now to other matters concerning wto implementation. this is important because the wto agreement is the lynchpin for the development of our trade relations with china. china has made substantial progress in implementing its wto commitments, as set out in its accession agreement, but some issues still raise concerns. i am addressing these in both a bilateral and multilateral context. discussions have met with considerable success in a number of areas, in particular on coke, the construction and automobile sectors, and sanitary and phytosanitary measures. however, concerns still remain in the automobile sector, in services sectors such as banking, and in telecommunications. i raised these and pursued them when i was in beijing earlier this year and i will continue to do so. i accept that a particular area of concern is the need to ensure an adequate and efficient level of protection in china of intellectual property rights. china has shown willing, but the continuing difficulties encountered by european industry in terms of counterfeiting and piracy have made clear that more work is needed. i am addressing this issue on two fronts, using a combination of political pressure and cooperation, both bilaterally and on a multilateral level. i am determined to give practical answers to industry’s concerns. we took an important step forward when the chinese recently agreed to my proposal to set up an intellectual property working group. the intention here is to address problems in a systemic way and on a sectoral basis. it will include experts from business who know where the delivery problems in china’s laws exist. but ipr is a worldwide problem, and it therefore requires consideration on a global level. within the wto, the eu, as well as the us and japan, used the 2004 transitional review mechanism to challenge china on its implementation record of its obligations in respect of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights, otherwise known as trips. the answers given by china demonstrate its commitment to the fight against counterfeiting and piracy, but further efforts are obviously needed and i am committed to helping china make those further efforts. the eu has also suggested that the review mechanism could be usefully complemented by a multilateral discussion within the trips council, and i intend to follow this up. but i also believe that continuing to share our expertise by providing technical assistance on intellectual property is an important element of our work with china. we have recently concluded an ec-china agreement on customs cooperation. another example of assistance is eu financing of training on trademarks for judges. these are just two instances of the sort of cooperation that will help china build a sound and coherent enforcement system. finally, i would encourage european industry to make use of all available tools in the eu and in china to protect its own rights and put the system to the test. in conclusion, the level of cooperation and partnership that china and the eu are demonstrating in these areas are the building blocks for a dynamic and more effective relationship between us. nobody should underestimate the huge potential gains and benefits for us in europe of such a relationship growing and being soundly based. there are obviously going to be challenges ahead, and i will ensure that the eu responds in a timely and effective manner. but there will also be great opportunities for european industry and producers to supply into that rapidly expanding chinese market. if we can work together to ensure that a rules-based economic system is respected and strengthened in the dda, then the rapid economic growth in china will benefit the eu and the rest of the world. that is why in responding to the question originally put, i say again that we have to combine our short-term management of the problems that are thrown up by china’s expansion with a clear-sighted, longer-term perspective of the opportunities that china’s growth offers europe. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. china has become a major player in the global market in recent years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in this context, i would like to put the following specific questions to the commission: first, there were 9,000 lawsuits against pirates in china last year. that's a good start. what will the commission do to support the chinese in this effort? secondly, the sentences are often not effectively enforced. how will the commission assist the chinese authorities in enforcing judgments against pirates? third, products exported from china often infringe patents and copyrights. on 8 march, during question time, commissioner kovács promised me that he would offer the chinese that the eu would send customs officials to china at its own expense to assist the chinese customs officials in their work. has this offer been made to the chinese? how did the chinese react to this? fourthly, two people died recently in greece because of a chinese-made steam iron. this had the ce marking but did not meet the standards. what will the commission do to ensure that member states soon establish effective market controls to prevent the sale of such products and thus force chinese manufacturers to comply with standards and patents? fifthly, there are still many obstacles to european companies in china. what will the commission do to effectively remove these mostly non-tariff barriers to trade? sixth, modern weapons include the most advanced technologies. what negative impact does the commission fear for businesses and jobs in europe if the arms embargo and the related technology transfer are lifted? seventhly, what concrete measures is the commission taking to ensure that china frees up the exchange rate of its currency?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make a few points based on what mr caspary has already said. i very much welcome the fact that safeguard measures have been introduced and i hope that you will get reliable data, including reliable data from the individual member states. as far as i have seen, it is not so easy to obtain reliable data as we can follow up on the case of romania. i hope that you will then bring this data to the committee on international trade in time for us to discuss it with you in committee. i was also pleased to see that in your speech in singapore on 29 april you took up an old initiative of parliament, namely the call for greater cooperation between europe and asia. this parliament once called for a free trade area and demanded that it should at least start with a state. we are very strong in the latin american region. other areas, especially asia, have been criminally neglected. i agree that this is going to backfire in the case of china. the big concern that we have -- and textiles is just one super example, so to speak -- is that we see unfair competition in china for a variety of reasons. this may be intentional unfair competition, but it may also be unintentional unfair competition. what are you going to do about it? what are the concrete measures to ensure that hidden subsidies are also taken into account in the investigations? you mentioned intellectual property rights. but there's a long way to go. there's a case you've been working on for a long time. i would be grateful if you would comment on this. this case concerns non-ferrous metals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in china in particular, the local recycling industry is supported by vat refunds. how far along are the investigations? can you say something else about that? otherwise, it is very good that you have started the investment measures. we are very much in favour of this and wish you every success in doing so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we europeans rightly expect china to respect all the obligations arising from its accession to the wto. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wto rules are respected. we therefore welcome the safeguard measures that have been introduced. the respect of the treaties must be checked. china's accession to the wto has been a success for all of us, not only for china but also and especially for us europeans. we should finally be looking at the debate on a global scale and not just in a small, intra-european focus. commissioner mandelson has made a great effort to give us a global view. the demand for renewed protection, for stronger measures, would be a blow to european producers who have been successfully working for ten years to transition from quota trading to more competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, minimum standards in the labour market are and remain an issue! that is why we europeans should do everything we can to ensure that the wto is also governed by more democratic rules.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i too believe that communication strategy is important. but this means, of course, that it is not just a technical matter, but also a matter of conveying the spirit, the basic idea of europe, so that we can really convince our citizens. only if we can make it clear to the citizens that this is a project unique in the world, that it will bring them benefits, a project of cooperation, of understanding, of peace, and that it is a political project in which we are participating, which we are building, can we create a bit of enthusiasm. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also think it is right to have more opportunities in schools, to change the curricula accordingly. i do not think that this is propaganda, but political education and information in the best sense of the word, about the political project of europe and its self-reflection. i also think it is right - as has been suggested - that a hotline be set up, that prizes be awarded for good ideas, that more journalists be invited and that the campaign for the european constitution be given a real focus now. the european parliament has also been asked to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. i would like to point out a difficult point: we all agree that european information and ideas must also be conveyed through the media. but i am firmly convinced that it is right to continue to support existing television channels such as euronews through joint projects and not to set up a separate parliamentary channel. i don't think that's really attractive. we should rather support the other means of dissemination available to us and already known to the public, and also pool our resources, rather than putting extra money into a european parliament station which would reach fewer people than if we chose other forms of cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is our hope! but europe is not in a good place if you follow the debates in the member states where a referendum is to be held. what's the reason? it's not just our work, it's the public opinion, and it's mainly the published opinion. the climate that affects this public opinion is not only influenced by us, but above all by the media. this is where we need to start. i am very much in favour of the standardization of textbooks, but i also think it is right to adapt them to the specific information of the target groups. this is about the professionalisation of our public relations work here in the european parliament, but also in the other european institutions. the point is that we still have no drama in parliament, for example, that would be interesting to journalists, that would clarify the processes. our votes are not congruent with the debates. that means we have to involve the fourth pillar of democracy, the four powers, the media, more. that must be our goal!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted for the resolution. as a german, i am grateful to all those who have freed us from national socialism. unfortunately, we have not been able to rid ourselves of this domination. it has first deprived its own citizens and blinded many, and then covered almost all of europe with war and violence. as a west german, i am grateful to those who have freed us to freedom, above all to the americans, without whose presence over decades democracy could not have been consolidated internally and externally. in addition to the victims of the events up to 8 may, the eastern half of europe has had the innocent victims of the change of dictatorship from national socialism to soviet dictatorship since 8 may. a condition that took 45 years to overcome. today's russia should recognize that the people from tallinn to leipzig, from warsaw to varna could not accept as liberation what the soviet union imposed on them after hitler. the germans east of the three western zones also paid far more for hitler's crimes than we, who were fortunate enough to be able to participate very soon in the project that was and remains the answer to all totalitarian challenges: the european union. so let us make europe better in the future!
in writing. i reject the resolution: - the 60th anniversary of the liberation of germany and europe is being used to promote historical revisionist theses by equating nazi germany with the soviet union; - the crimes of german fascism, in particular the extermination of european jews, are being trivialised by this equation; - the resolution is clearly aimed at relativizing this breakdown in civilization; - the decisive contribution of the soviet union to the victory over fascism is not mentioned. sixty years ago, the world was liberated from national socialism, in whose name, supported by capital and large sections of the german population, the industrial extermination of the jews was decided in incomparable contempt for humanity, war was waged all over europe and millions of people were killed. the anti-fascist resistance, particularly by communists and social democrats, was brutally suppressed by torture and tens of thousands of murders. today, to use the anniversary of the end of the nazi regime to point to 1989 as the actual date of liberation is to trivialize the nazi terror regime, to denigrate the soviet union and the immense sacrifices made by its people and the red army, and to encourage the growth of nationalism, right-wing extremism and the increasing relativization of nazi crimes in europe. what is needed is a different signal: a clear and unequivocal commitment that fascism will never again have a chance in europe.
a writer. the commission is not on 21 april, the joint parliamentary assembly of the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific states met in bamako, mali, in the neighbourhood of togo. we had a very heated debate on the situation in togo three days before the elections. unfortunately, we had a situation where the europeans on the one hand felt that things were not going right there, and the majority of the delegates, especially the african delegates, on the other hand were wary of our declaring the result not to be free and fair even before the elections. unfortunately, we were right, because it was already clear before the elections that what had been agreed with the help of ecowas - the regional economic association in west africa - was not being respected, namely that opposition parties would be involved in the preparation of the elections. it has been found that up to a million unanticipated voters suddenly showed up. the distribution of voting cards was also very opaque and the control of voter registers was not guaranteed. then it came to the violent confrontations. we are clearly calling on the togolese government, which bears full responsibility for this, to return to the negotiating table with all the parties concerned. we demand that those who incite violence be arrested as well. we believe that what we saw as an election there cannot be a prerequisite for the european union to resume cooperation with togo. that's not possible under the circumstances. we therefore ask the commission to state clearly how togo should behave in the near future, so that there can be no doubt what our position is.
a writer. the commission is not we 're at the end of a week of memories and memories: the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations. in the light of these commemorative days, those who remained silent or even made deals with the oppressors look very bad. we must therefore consider what those who behave in this way will look like one day, because the iron curtain may have disappeared, but the so-called bamboo curtain that the socialist generals erected around burma is still there, and behind it terrible tragedies are taking place, from the brutal violation of the human rights of tens of thousands of political prisoners to the deliberate use of poison gas against the karen people. you try to kill a people with gas or at least break their backs. these are terrible things that are happening in the 21st century. we are in the obligation here. there are two points which we must emphasize in particular. firstly, it is urgent that we ensure that burma does not assume the presidency of asean in 2006. asean is something of a child of the european union, a union like the eu, although not yet so political, but rather economic. but it's one of our most important partners. and it is intolerable that a regime that destroys people should be at the head of such an important partner organization. secondly, we must use all the political, economic and legal means available to us to deal with those who are doing business with such a regime in an unrestrained manner. of course, we must always consider: what is harmful to the population and what is beneficial to the population? of course, isolating a country completely is not the right way to go. but to allow those in power to enrich themselves shamelessly and to counter that with just a few paper protests against human rights violations - that destroys europe's credibility. that's why words must be followed by deeds. i call on the commission - and the council - to take a tougher line towards burma. it is not necessary to protest now and then, but we must apply systematic pressure to make this disgusting regime disappear.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not last saturday, in the burmese capital of rangoon, explosive devices detonated in shopping malls, department stores and a trade fair centre; eleven people were killed, over 150 seriously injured. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. the attacks show that the situation has not improved at all since our debate in september 2004, but has dramatically worsened. bernd posselt and other speakers have pointed this out. the multiethnic state of burma/myanmar has been under military rule almost continuously since 1962. they have refused to allow the national league for democracy, the winner of the 1990 elections, to take over the government. the national assembly shall meet without the participation of the democratically elected representatives. in february 2005, the leaders of numerous opposition parties and ethnic groups were arrested. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. forced labour has reached such a level that the international labour organisation (ilo) has called on eu member states to review their relations. mr dimas, i do not understand the commission in this context. during burma day 2005, you presented a report which envisaged strengthening economic and social cooperation with the regime. the eu is a community of values; the protection of human rights and the preservation of democracy have priority. the eu should send a special envoy to burma to make a tangible contribution. ethnic groups and minorities must finally be accepted. humanitarian and social abuses must be eliminated. it is only when there is significant progress in this area that it is justified to increase the european union's aid.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the motion of censure under discussion is clearly unjustified and without any foundation. let us see why. the authors of the report put it forward on the grounds that this was the only way of forcing me to come to the plenary to explain the matter. you know very well that i am always at the disposal of the european parliament. i think it is a matter of respect and interest for your institution, in the interests of openness and transparency. the fact is that the vast majority of this house, through the conference of presidents, felt that the matter in question did not warrant a debate in plenary. it considered that if there were any questions, they had received adequate and necessary written answers in my letter to president borrell dated 22 april 2005. i therefore gave all the explanations requested in good time. i have nothing to add to this letter on the substance. last august, my family and i spent a week with a former teacher and friend, at the invitation of another mutual friend, on his personal boat in greece. my relationship with them goes back to my time at the university of geneva, more than 20 years ago. in other words, it is a long-standing personal and academic relationship, predating my entry into politics and of a nature that has not changed since. this relationship has never involved any business subjects or interests of any kind and i have not been aware of any connection between them and the commission which would justify a suspicion of a conflict of interest. the author of the motion of censure claims that these few days of holiday among friends raise questions in relation to a commission decision authorising state aid in greece and more generally in relation to the commission's approach to ethical issues. that is a false statement. there is no connection between this fact of my private life and the activities of the commission. as regards the commission's decision authorising state aid in greece, i would remind you that it was taken by the previous college, chaired by mr prodi, on the basis of a proposal by mr monti, at a time when i had no responsibility within the commission, which really shows the unfair, unjustified, illegitimate and absurd nature of this motion of censure against this commission. (applause) i would like to thank this time lag which the author of the motion has forgotten to put in the text of the motion - which explains why some people have signed the motion without really knowing what is at stake - clearly demonstrates the deliberate manoeuvres of amalgamation in which the author is engaged. i would also like to point out that the college currently in office has, under my leadership and authority, implemented the strictest rules on conflict of interest and transparency that have ever been enacted at the level of the institutions of the european union. so the motion of censure is based on a misguided insinuation. the fact that members of the commission may have personal relations, which are exactly the same as before they took office and have nothing to do with the commission, is not and cannot be qualified as a conflict of interest in itself. the fact that friends and acquaintances of a member of the commission may be affected by the commission's policy is not and cannot in itself justify a suspicion of a conflict of interest. this applies to the commission as well as to members of the european parliament or members of governments, because, since there is not a single politician who does not have friends or acquaintances, the logic of the authors of the motion of censure, taken to the extreme, would paralyse any democratic political process. i've said it before and i'll say it again, it would be absurd. but if the motion of censure is absurd, why are we here today? why did i come when, for example, my predecessor had been represented at the last vote of no confidence rather than coming himself? i have come because i think it is important to know how this parliament really feels about this kind of political manoeuvre. (applause) i am here because i do not consider this motion to be an attack directed specifically at me. i have nothing against the author of the motion and i believe that on a personal level he has nothing against me. he just finds it very strange an invitation to spend a few days on a boat. i don't know anyone who would dare to invite him on a boat for a day. i understand the difficulty. (laughter and applause) so this is not a personal issue, but a serious institutional one, because this kind of attack, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is part of a populist tendency, a tendency to manipulate and simplify important and complex subjects, a tendency against the europe we are building. (applause) i would like to thank in this case, the motion invokes the values and essential concepts of democracy, such as ethics and transparency, but it does so for the purpose of mystification, through trials of intent. it seeks to conceal its real objective, which is to undermine the credibility of the union's institutions and its overall integration work by substituting the fabrication of alleged scandals for the debate of ideas. and here, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are crossing the threshold between democracy and demagogy, and we cannot accept this abuse of democracy. (applause) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of our europe do not want spectacle politics. europeans are refusing to accept gutter politics. i am sure that the vast majority of this house feel the same way and want this to be clear. the political challenges facing us at the moment require both intense reflection and serious effort. it is quite legitimate to be more or less enthusiastic about the european union. it is quite legitimate to be more or less critical of the guidelines adopted by the commission and the european parliament. it is perfectly legitimate to have different political views. but it is not legitimate to pit the european institutions against each other. what is not legitimate are the procedural abuses of the kind we are facing with this motion of censure; it is the amalgamations, the innuendoes, the lawsuits of intent which are not based on anything real and which do not advance the debate in a constructive way. on the contrary, it deprives the citizens of europe of what they are entitled to expect: that we should concentrate on their expectations, their concerns and their problems. the extremist approach of the author of the motion of censure seeks to obscure the issues rather than clarify them. i would like to reiterate to you, mr president, and to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, the commitment of my entire committee and myself to the highest standards of ethics and transparency. i repeat that we are open to dialogue with your assembly. i would like to thank you again for the support and solidarity shown by the vast majority of you, and i am thinking in particular of those who do not always agree with me on ideological issues but who have nevertheless wanted to distance themselves from this kind of political manoeuvre against the commission. it is in this spirit, and i believe that this will be the only merit of this debate, that i ask you to censure the motion of censure by rejecting it en masse. that is the positive signal we can send from here to the whole of europe: censure this motion of censure because that is the best way of serving the democracy which is at the heart of our europe. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there are debates in which one participates out of a sense of duty and responsibility for european unity and its institutions, and such a debate is taking place today. the initiators of the motion of censure invoke article 201 of the ec treaty and article 100 of our rules of procedure. we respect this right, but we also say that by claiming this right, the applicants are devaluing these rights because they are clearly being abused by the applicants. (applause from the centre) the other group members, who have been mentioned, and my colleague and friend, the chairman of the uen group, bryan crowley, have informed me that he will join our initiative on 13 may. we have said that we consider this initiative of the authors of this motion to be totally unjustified and excessively excessive. let me add today: i consider this proposal to be both humanly indecent and politically transparent, because it is directed against the unification of our continent. (applause from the centre) the president of the commission has pointed out that the trip took place, as far as i know, in the second half of august. the commission's approval of the facts alleged in this request was given on 23 september, the vote of confidence in the barroso commission was given here on 18 november and the commission took office on 22 november. this shows that the responsibility for the approval on 23 september was with the commission of romano prodi. it shows the absurdity and the incredulity of this request. this motion of censure is going to collapse like a house of cards! (applause from the centre) in reality, the applicants are not concerned with josé manuel dourão barroso. it is an attack on the european institutions, on the credibility of the commission and also on the other european institutions. it is a manhunt being used to discredit the european institutions, and this is just days before the constitutional referendums in france and the netherlands. five members of our group from the ed group have signed this motion without informing their national delegation chairman and without consulting their group chairman, let alone consulting him. i 'll explain it to you here . these five members are therefore outside the solidarity of the epp-ed group. (applause from the centre and the right) i would like to say, mr helmer, that i have never had as much patience with any political colleague as i have with you. you have just resigned from the epp-ed group, and as i respect the dignity of every individual, i personally wish you all the best for your future. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have confidence in the president of the commission and in the commission. fourteen days ago - and this was one of the highlights of my political work here in parliament - we faced europe's past with a large majority and, in recognition of the historical truth of europe, we took the path towards the future with the resolution on the end of the second world war 60 years ago. we are aware of our responsibility and we will not allow anyone to weaken our determination to continue building on this work of peace and european unity. so, mr president of the commission, continue to work with your commission, and we will support you in that! (applause from the centre and the right)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have heard from the president of the commission that his relations with the shipowner go back a long way. i would also have to ask you, mr president of the commission, if he was with you in the maoist youth movement, he would be the only maoist billionaire in europe. (laughter) i think that mr pöttering has just taken a very correct step. if you have colleagues in the group like the one you just mentioned, mr pöttering, you no longer need political opponents! i can therefore only warmly congratulate you on the step you have just announced. (applause from the centre) what we have to discuss here has already been answered in the case. the decision which is allegedly being criticised is not a decision of the commission headed by mr barroso. it was a decision of the prodi commission and fell within the remit of commissioner monti. it is therefore not responsible for this commission - as mr pöttering has just said - at all. the applicants, or at least the people who have inspired this application, know this. the question must be asked, therefore, why the request was made. he was brought in to accomplish exactly what is now taking place here. that's what we were after. there is no political background. the goal was to have the cameras up there, to have the crowds outside the entrance to this room, to have exactly what is supposed to happen happen happen: just for show. that's all i got. that is the political substance behind it. (applause from the centre) mr president of the commission, you are entitled to have parliament tell you what it expects from you and your commission. we have done this intensively in the investiture of this commission. my group has not always dealt with this commission to its satisfaction. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens. if these are substantiated allegations, we will deal with them. but i am not prepared - and i speak for all my colleagues in the group - to allow slander and slander to become a parliamentary strategy. we are not prepared to accept that. (applause from the centre) i therefore declare on behalf of the socialist group that we do not agree with this motion. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, after the rather destructive point we have just discussed, which is to disrupt relations between the institutions, we now come, thank god, to a constructive point which is to strengthen relations between the institutions. this fourth framework agreement between the commission and parliament is an expression of the culture of cooperation which respects the role of the respective institutions but seeks to deepen mutual understanding and cooperation, which is also reflected in the articles. this is the fourth agreement between the commission and parliament. i can say that agreement after agreement has gradually strengthened the role of this parliament as a chamber of citizens and, therefore, as a supervisory body of the european executive. we have made some progress on this agreement too. i would therefore like to thank the conference of presidents and in particular mrs wallström and others who have been involved in the establishment of the framework agreement. i would like to mention a few key points. the fourth framework agreement reflects precisely what we have discussed here. there are clear provisions on the political responsibility of the president and members of the commission in the event of conflicts of interest. without prejudice to the collegial nature of the commission, each member of the commission shall be responsible for acting within the scope of his or her competence. this is a very important principle, that all 25 members of the commission are individually responsible for what they do in their field. the president of the commission is responsible for the follow-up to conflicts of interest between commissioners and also for the decision to be taken. we also have clear rules on the procedure when a member of the commission resigns and is replaced by a new member. there have been long negotiations here. it is clear that a new member must also come before parliament, conduct the hearings and obtain a vote of confidence from the plenary before he can officially take up his duties. the second complex concerns cooperation in the legislative process and in budgetary decisions. i see that we have managed to get the commission and parliament to agree in advance on the annual legislative procedure and on the multiannual programming and that the commission does not publish any legislative or other major initiative before informing parliament. this is a very important point in parliament's participation in the major decisions taken by the european union! in this context, parliament is also equated with the council. we are kept fully informed of every legislative process at the same time as the council. it is also agreed that there will be a regular dialogue at the highest level every three months between the conference of presidents and the president of the commission or the vice-president responsible . i believe that this will also lead to more cooperation. the commission also undertook to provide information on the composition and work of the groups of experts at the request of the committee responsible. there are also several provisions concerning our position at international conferences. the commission will endeavour to keep parliament's delegations fully informed of the progress of these international conferences and, if possible, to involve them in the negotiating delegations. the commission also assists parliament in election observation. it systematically informs parliament of the progress of accession negotiations with candidate countries. we have codified the lamfalussy procedure. parliament would have liked more, because it applies only to securities, banks and insurance companies. we would have liked to have used this procedure in other areas. but that's probably not until the next stage. the commission is also proposing that the procedure for a framework agreement be made more transparent in the future and that the relevant bodies of parliament be involved a little earlier. but all in all, i recommend to the house that this agreement be adopted because it represents real progress, and i have already said that it is characterized by a culture of cooperation based on mutual respect, on the will to work constructively for the union's objectives. that is what the people and the citizens want from us!
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs malmström, on this extremely comprehensive report covering all aspects of relations between the european union and russia. it goes without saying that these relations occupy a particularly important place in the external relations of the european union, a place which has become even more important since the enlargement of the eu. it is also true that much of this report was written before the summit. it will therefore be necessary to see how the analysis and presentation of this report should be supplemented in the light of the conclusions and discussions which took place at the 15th european union/russia summit in moscow on 10 may. at the summit, the european union and russia agreed on the terms of a strategic partnership which will allow cooperation to be strengthened in the four common areas: the economic area, the area of freedom, security and justice, the area of external security and, finally, the area of research, education and culture. the negotiation of the four roadmaps which identify cooperation in these four areas in a concrete way has obviously encountered difficulties, since it was intended to reorganise our relations as a whole by adopting several hundred operational points which now need to be implemented. however, we can be pleased with the result. by agreeing in moscow on an overall package of roadmaps for the four areas, russia and the european union have succeeded in taking a new step in their relations, namely the establishment of a genuine strategic partnership as decided at the st petersburg summit in may 2003. this is an undeniable success, which is not affected by the fact that the russian side mentions some difficulties in the transit of goods to kaliningrad. for president putin, the agreement on the four areas must allow, i quote, 'serious progress in the construction of a greater europe'. i believe that this is a goal we can share, provided that this great europe is based on values to which we ourselves are committed. as regards the economic area, russia renewed its agreement at the summit, which was given in 2004, to the gradual abolition of the rights of overflying siberia, which are no longer justified. negotiations on the exact terms of such a phase-out are due to be concluded in the near future and should therefore enter into force shortly. russia has called for greater cooperation in the energy sector, which is in our own interests. it presents itself as a reliable partner for the european union in this and other areas, and has committed itself to implementing the kyoto protocol, even as it threatens to withdraw if the regime is not reformed by 2012. these discussions show that the issue of global warming and the kyoto agreement, and especially what will come after the kyoto agreement, is of paramount importance and that we must therefore continue this aspect of the dialogue with the russians. russia's accession to the wto is also a prospect that must be developed rapidly, since it is a matter of once again fully integrating russia into the multilateral system, thereby subjecting it to international disciplines, in particular to trade disciplines. as regards the area of freedom, security and justice, one of the most important points in this area is certainly the one on the free movement of persons. even in the absence of concrete results on this issue at the summit, the european union continues to attach great importance to the speedy conclusion of negotiations with the russians with a view to the signing of an agreement providing for the facilitation, on the basis of strict reciprocity, of the conditions for granting short-stay visas, and also of a readmission agreement. the latter is essential for the union and there can be no visa facilitation without, at the same time, obtaining a readmission agreement. we know that the russians have expressed difficulties in this respect, but they no longer reject the conclusion of such an agreement, which they now link to the conclusion of similar agreements with their own neighbours. this is therefore a subject which must be developed continuously and in which dialogue with the russians must be actively pursued. i also welcome the signing by the russians on 18 may of the agreement on the delimitation of the borders with estonia. unfortunately, the signing of a similar agreement with latvia is still delayed and the russians must be encouraged to sign such an agreement. as regards the area of external security, we agreed with the russians at the summit that closer cooperation should make it possible to work together towards the peaceful settlement of the so-called frozen conflicts affecting our common neighbourhood, or rather, to use the wording which was finally adopted in the conclusions, 'the regions adjacent to russia and the european union'. in this context, i am thinking in particular of the transnistrian conflict in the republic of moldova. the adoption of the wording for the adjacent regions has enabled us to overcome the initial reluctance expressed by russia on this subject and i believe that both the european union and russia have much to gain from our cooperation in this region of the world where any development has direct repercussions on russia and on the union. it is also stated in the joint roadmap that all cooperation processes must be based on the sovereign decisions of the states and the text clearly recognises, and i think this is one of the most important points, that the european union and russia share the same common values. so it is these same common values which include respect for sovereign rights, but also respect for human rights and the principles of the rule of law that must guide the development of our relations with russia. let me take this opportunity to say a word about our common interests in the fight against terrorism: the fight against terrorism must be based on these values and respect the rule of law. the research, education and culture area is an important space where the russian and european peoples can meet and forge closer links, since we have a common cultural and historical heritage. in this important area, a number of initiatives need to be developed. one of them has already been decided: the opening of a european institute in moscow by 2006. i would like to conclude by stressing the importance of our overall relations with russia. we must build longterm relations of trust with this great country, which also holds the keys to the stability of our continent, based, i repeat, on democratic principles, on the values which must precisely characterize the construction of the great europe we want and which they themselves seem to want. in doing so, we cannot ignore that there is also a ruthless but constructive dialogue to be conducted on human rights issues, on issues involving freedom of the press, on other humanitarian issues that are arising in particular in regions such as chechnya. this dialogue has been initiated, particularly on human rights. it must be actively pursued as an integral part of our relations with russia, since it is in the european union's interest to have a reliable russian partner, to have a partner who contributes to the stability of our continent and who also shares the fundamental values that we want to defend on this continent. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, let me begin by thanking mrs malmström for the very useful report. its timing is highly opportune, coming just after the successful eu-russia summit that president barroso, commissioner mandelson and i attended in moscow, together with the council presidency. as we now begin implementing what has been agreed, it is very important to say that russia is a strategic partner, but at the same time we also have to speak with one voice and we have to address all the questions – both the more difficult and the less difficult questions – which i can assure you we did. many of the issues in your report are highly relevant to the discussions we had in moscow. let me give you a very short overview from my side. of course, i can only complement what the presidency very eloquently said. the major achievement was adopting the four roadmaps for the four ‘common spaces’ that we have been negotiating for many months. the last summit meeting in november was more difficult and we were far from coming to an agreement, whereas through the many individual negotiations that we conducted we finally achieved our result in the four areas: the economy; freedom, security and justice; external security; and research and culture. they will now provide a good basis for significantly enhancing and strengthening our relations with russia in the coming years, which is necessary. we have the partnership and cooperation agreement, but this alone is no longer an adequate basis. we had to enhance it by these four common spaces. more importantly, we confirmed that the eu-russia relationship is based on common values – and i am glad that president putin himself mentioned that – including respect for human rights and democracy, the rule of law, and a free market economy. these values must now also guide us as we turn to implementation. president putin, in a speech he gave in the duma, very clearly mentioned that, and we are encouraged by this as also by the human rights dialogue that we had with russia, which was a very frank and open dialogue where all these questions were raised and discussed. in the economic sphere, i very much welcome your emphasis on our common interest in seeing russia become a real partner with an open, dynamic, intensified economy and also – this is equally important – a transparent judicial system. this will be at the forefront as russia comes closer to wto membership and, as you said, we all support that because we think this is the direction that has to be taken and which will start to create a real common economic space. at the summit we also made clear that phasing out non-commercial payments for siberian over-flights is essential for our economic cooperation. we also ensured that energy cooperation and the kyoto protocol are very high on the list of priorities in our roadmap. i can confirm to you that, as requested in your resolution, the commission will continue to provide financial support for russia’s implementation of kyoto and for nuclear safety. in the field of freedom, security and justice, we agreed that we must rapidly conclude negotiations on both, on the one hand on readmission and on the other hand on visa facilitation. i believe that the agreement on both issues is within reach and we should aim to conclude it as soon as possible. our aim would be the next summit in october. i know this is a very ambitious aim but i say as soon as possible. the commission and the member states remain convinced – we said so clearly and it was part of our difficult negotiations until the very end – that the simultaneous implementation of the two agreements is essential. we also raised, as did president barroso, the issue of human rights and the dialogue with russia on the northern caucasus. following the april fact-finding mission by dg relex, we are now exploring ways and means of providing financial support, especially for socio-economic recovery, in addition to our considerable humanitarian assistance. we have to create a new climate there and we also want to do a lot on the question of technical support. we want to bring people out of the northern caucasus, out of chechnya, so that they can also see a different environment. this is also very important for a future process designed to lead to reconciliation and to better social and economic conditions. of course all this should lead to free and fair elections. this should be the aim. we would also like to improve administrative and institutional structures. we have to continue our dialogue with the russian authorities on this point. we also agreed that human rights and international obligations must be respected as part of fighting terrorism in an effective and very resolute way. turning to external security, we agreed with the russian authorities that we both want an integrated europe without new dividing lines. even if the four common spaces include the notion of adjacent regions, president putin himself acknowledged that it is a common neighbourhood and we have to work within the common neighbourhood to make it a better, more stable neighbourhood for both of us. that means that we want to cooperate on the question of stability and prosperity in neighbouring countries such as ukraine, moldova and georgia, without forcing them to choose one camp. they should proceed with their internal reforms and find solutions for their very difficult problems. finally, let me underline the importance of our agreement on research, education and culture. those areas, even if they do not seem to be highlighted, are specific areas for people-to-people contacts. we want to promote more exchanges with regard to university studies and also want to work on different cultural projects with russia. your resolution rightly draws attention to the fact, as i said at the beginning, that russia is an important strategic partner for us, and all the more so since enlargement. this has highlighted the need to further develop cooperation with russia in the north-western regions, especially in the ‘northern dimension’. i must also agree with your suggestion that the union’s policy on russia has too often suffered from a lack of coherence. i said member states must stick to the common line and we appealed very often to them to do so during our negotiations. since in the end everybody stuck to this line, we managed to come to an agreement. i hope the success of our summit will enable us to strengthen relations on a now broadly agreed basis and in a coherent manner. we will be able substantially to deepen our cooperation across a wide range of sectors, and we must use all the possibilities offered by the existing partnership and cooperation agreement. i can assure parliament that the commission will take full account of all the points made in its resolution and i remain as always at your disposal for further discussions. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think that this report, which has been very well written by mrs malmström, with a lot of effort, makes clear the importance of relations with russia. and he makes it clear that: russia is not only a partner in europe, not only an anchor for stability, but has also become our neighbour through enlargement, and therefore we must look at these relations in a special way - even beyond today. but russia is not a candidate country! we are not here to make a progress report and sit in court and say, 'this is wrong and this is wrong and you have to do something about it.' what we're doing here is a different process. in this respect, we point out violations of human rights or developments in democracy which are not in our interest, but we should be careful, as a professor, to judge point by point what is happening in russia. it is important that this summit has produced concrete results, that a basis has been created to establish external and internal security, to ensure economic cooperation and also to enable joint projects in research, education and culture. what i think is very important in today's debate is what the commissioner said. if this is to work, europe must speak with one voice. then it is not possible for individual member states - the germans, the french and the spanish - to hold special summits with russia and pursue a policy to the contrary. and not only that, but without informing our baltic friends and the european institutions. it is almost as if we could say that in germany this will be over in september, but in france and spain we will probably have to live with it for some time. the last point: what i think is very important is cooperation in regional conflicts. transnistria, abkhazia, south ossetia and nagorno-karabakh have been mentioned, and the eu has offered to help in chechnya as well. this must not only be on a humanitarian level, it must also be political, and russia would be well advised to heed this european signal. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. russia is very important for our security stability as well as for our economic and ecological development. we want to have close cooperation in a wide range of areas. however, this partnership - despite all its strategic justification - must respect european values. even if parts of the eu are dependent on russian energy and raw materials, we must not betray our democratic and human rights principles. we must set an example and involve russia in the issue of minority rights, especially with regard to the protection of russian minorities in the baltic states. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the deaths of thousands of civilians in chechnya. the military approach is not only a dead end, it is a disaster, a crime. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. our hope is the development of civil society. we want a political solution, with the help of the eu. the present sentence on khodorkovsky and lebedev, which i was present at the beginning in moscow, is a shocking indication that the core values of the eu - the rule of law, democracy and human rights - are being trampled on here. how else could two people be sentenced to life in an iron cage, like dangerous predators? the grounds of the judgment were largely taken literally, including the errors. the destruction of yukos is an economic execution. this political show trial leaves khodorkovsky no fair chance. is this russia a worthy strategic partner for the eu? rule of law and human rights are indivisible in any regime and apply to empires too! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the malmström report is a balancing act. it is clear to put it forward that the european union always gives priority to the countries that are members of the european union and that they are granted a special level of protection and support for historical, political and economic reasons. in this case, this applies in particular to poland and the baltic states. secondly, we must note that russia is undergoing a tremendous process of change, particularly with the dismantling of the soviet system, and that this has been successful in many areas, so that the supporters of the old soviet system no longer seem to have any real choice in russia today. thirdly, we must see that this can only work in the long term if it is based on democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and that there are criticisms to be made here. but this leads to the fourth point, which is that we must maintain a level of dialogue with russia. for this reason, we are developing a strategic partnership, as illustrated by the 'four common spaces', with a common energy policy designed to avoid unilateral dependence at our expense, a strategic partnership that is geared to the events of 2007 for which we are preparing together. the partnership and cooperation agreements will then expire, there will be elections in russia and russia's membership of the wto is also scheduled for 2007. the enlargement may be completed by then. we might even have a constitution. we must prepare ourselves sensibly for this year 2007, when all this may happen. that is why i think it is sensible, with all the necessary criticism, to attach importance to maintaining the ability to talk, in order to contribute to a sensible development of russia - in our interest and in the interest of our neighbours - so that new tensions do not arise, and especially because russia is needed in areas such as the middle east, the un, the security council, etc. so it is better to maintain a substance of friendly relations in the face of criticism, and we should pursue this balance accordingly. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the history has been brought up here several times. for germans too, relations with russia have a specific historical quality. i think it is impartial to say that german politicians are happy that after many decades there are again good relations with russia. if we calculate it coldly and in terms of our own interests, also in terms of the security interests of the new member states, i believe that their security interests are better served by these good relations than if it were the other way around. that is why it is also negligent - or even worse - to use the eu as a kind of trampoline from which to swing up to give the russian bear a big punch in the nose. i expressly support what mr laschet has criticized earlier on the subject of clerical tendencies and what mr brok has said on the subject of safeguarding the ability to talk. but, mr. laschet, there are two things you should not do: you shouldn't distribute the bearskin nationally until the bear is dead. secondly, you should not make promises that you cannot keep, because i am absolutely sure that even under a government led by the cdu - perhaps in twenty years' time - there will be summits between germany and russia. don't give the impression that it doesn't exist.
member of the commission. mr president, the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is a political priority for the european union. the commission adopted this proposal for a third directive on the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing less than a year ago! and today it is before this house. this testifies to the importance of this text. work has progressed fast because all the institutions of the european union have been fully dedicated to ensuring that the european union is equipped with state-of-the-art defences in the field. this directive builds on existing community texts and incorporates into community law the revised 40 recommendations of the financial action task force on money laundering and terrorist financing. the directive tightens the controls in the financial sector against money launderers and terrorist financers and strengthens cooperation between countries. not only will the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing benefit from this, but so will the integrity and stability of the financial sector. the eu is also setting an example for other countries in the world to follow and match. the third anti-money laundering directive will prohibit money laundering as well as terrorist financing. it is applicable to the financial sector as well as to lawyers, notaries, accountants, real estate agents and casinos, trust and company service providers as well as all providers of goods when payments are made in cash in excess of eur 15 000. these people need, firstly, to identify and verify the identity of their customer and of its beneficial owner and to monitor transactions with the customer, while taking into account a risk-based approach; secondly, to report suspicions on money laundering and terrorist financing to the national financial intelligence unit; and, thirdly, to take supporting measures, such as record keeping, training of personnel and the establishment of internal policies and procedures. the directive is completed with a section on supervision and offers the possibility to take implementing measures. with this updated system we have progressed enormously. i should like in particular to underline the following elements. the cooperation between the european parliament, the presidency and the commission on this directive has been extremely constructive. this shows not only the willingness to have a fast-track adoption at first reading, but also the priority that all of us give to combating money laundering and fighting terrorist financing. furthermore, i especially appreciated the fact that we have all shown a sincere desire to achieve a compromise on the main issues, i.e. the definition of the beneficial owner, the definition of and the application of enhanced due diligence in respect of politically exposed persons, the coverage of trusts and lawyers and last, but not least, comitology. in respect of comitology, i underline that in the actual situation the commission as a maximum is willing to accept a sunset clause. this clause provides for the suspension of the comitology procedure four years after the entry into force of the directive. in accordance with article 251 of the treaty, these measures may be renewed by parliament and the council on a proposal from the commission. i would like to thank parliament in advance for making a first reading agreement possible and in particular i would like to congratulate warmly mr nassauer, mr muscat and the shadow rapporteurs on the quality of their work and thank them for the extremely constructive spirit in which they have produced their report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. anti-money laundering rules have been in place in the european union since 1991. at that time, money laundering from drug offences was prohibited, and the financial service providers, i.e. the banks, were the main ones to be obliged to do so. this directive was extended in 2001 to cover a much wider range of offences. in particular, the circle of persons obliged to disclose confidential information was extended, in particular to lawyers and notaries, which rightly caused considerable controversy at the time, since the question arose as to whether lawyers would be induced to disclose confidential information received from their clients. a compromise was reached then, and it is still in force today. these rules are based on recommendations by the ominous fatf, the financial action task force on money laundering, a g7 body, which have harmonised the rules on combating money laundering and which are also applied in practice in other countries outside the eu, so it makes sense to incorporate these rules into our legislative process. we are now facing the third amendment to the money laundering regulations. there are three reasons for this: firstly, the fatf amended its recommendation in the summer of 2003 and the point now is to implement it legally. secondly, the commission was in any event required to provide a definition of the concept of 'serious crime'. that was not done back then. the third - and perhaps most important - point is that this directive now also includes the financing of terrorism as something to be prevented. this is something we absolutely need to do to combat terrorism. we have agreed to adopt this directive in one reading. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thankfully, that worked. however, we have had to make compromises. so what i am going to tell you is not quite what i had personally imagined. unfortunately, that's the way it is with compromise. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. but i would point out that this directive is coming before we have had a chance to assess properly the operation of the second directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. we must be careful even today to ensure that what we demand of the debtors is in proportion to the return we expect. this has not been verified. i therefore conclude that we do not want to be bothered with further innovations for the foreseeable future until it is clear whether this company is really worth something. there are improvements in the directive: a risk-based approach which allows for the absence of more far-reaching measures when they are not necessary in advance. it's now enshrined in law. i want to turn briefly to three controversial issues: in general, the directive requires that customers, such as a bank, be identified and that if the bank suspects that there are suspicious money laundering activities, a report is returned. therefore, the beneficial owners of legal persons must also be identified. in the case of public limited companies, for example, the question arises as to which shareholding should be used. we agreed on a compromise of 25%. the problem of politically exposed persons (peps) has obviously attracted considerable attention in parliament. now, this directive is not really aimed at members of the european parliament, but rather at people who are guilty of money laundering or similar crimes, and we had to find a way to make this provision practical. we have therefore reached a compromise whereby nationals of one member state are not covered by this special surveillance obligation, but it applies to persons from other member states. that is a matter for debate, but it is what has been agreed as a compromise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would have been prepared to make a corrective contribution, but i must admit that neither the commission nor the council have been very receptive to this project. the commission has therefore decided to maintain the existing scheme. it is, however, clarified that lawyers do not have to make any communications from the confidential hearing or from the representation. i thank my colleagues vincent peillon and joseph muscat, but also baroness ludford, for the cooperation which has enabled us to reach a conclusion at the first reading, and i ask for your approval of the draft tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i should also like to take this opportunity to express my thanks and congratulations to mr nassauer for his report. it has been a tremendous job coordinating all these amendments and leading the negotiations. the report is important because money laundering - and i would like to make a point about this in relation to some of the speakers - is not a crime of chivalry. it is a criminal act, and an extremely criminal act! it's damaging the economy! it is found in extortion, drug trafficking, etc. we must put all this behind us. of course, you could have written more or less, and everyone will always find a hair in the soup - no question. but what i wish now is that what we have decided will finally be implemented. we shall then see in two or three years what effect has actually been achieved. that is why it is important that we get a report after two years, which makes it clear how effective these measures really are. i would like to say to the commissioner that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward this report. then we wouldn't have to discuss a lot of things. mr. nassauer, thank you very much.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the new proposal to extend the framework programme on equality between women and men for one year and to ensure funding for women's organisations operating at eu level is strongly supported by the socialist group, as is the moderate increase in funding by €1.5 million. however, with the new financial perspective for 2007-13, the european commission is presenting a new programme progress for employment and social policy. this is where our commonality breaks down. the fifth pillar of progress is equal opportunities with a significantly reduced budget. the constitutional treaty we are presenting to the citizens at the moment, however, has placed equality between women and men at the forefront of the values and objectives of the european union in articles 1 to 3, as well as the measures we should take. it is therefore a grave mistake to dismiss women in the field of social policy. 52% of the people in this european union are female. the question is not a minority problem, nor a social or employment problem. gender mainstreaming must be pursued everywhere in the areas of anti-discrimination, employment, etc.; but equality must remain a separate issue and visible to women. it is our great concern that we should work together towards this and use the time until 2007 to present an independent programme, because, commissioner špidla, ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear about one thing: women are watching us. we have always said that there is a dual strategy: gender mainstreaming in all policy areas and, until equality is achieved, separate programmes for women by the european union. i urge you to take this into account and to work towards developing a programme of your own.
the next item is the report by mrs britta thomsen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship (2001-2005) (com (2004) 0781) c6-0242/2004 2004/0272 (cod)) (a6-00118/2005).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur. it has set the right emphases, which have led to the increase in the financial envelope. however, more money does not automatically mean a better program. i listened very attentively to the commissioner at a special meeting in strasbourg when he spoke for the first time about his personal experience with this multiannual sme programme. in summary, he said he was shocked by the cumbersome application procedures, especially as it was about innovation. he was shocked that it was not the small and medium-sized enterprises in need who were the main beneficiaries, but the resourceful companies who were familiar with the programmes and therefore received the money. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i congratulate you, commissioner. you're right about your assessment. it is good that there is now a clear shift in thinking in this area, and you deserve our thanks for putting smes at the centre of the growth initiative and the competitiveness initiative. we will support you if you also ask your officials to ensure that programmes are not just bureaucratic or for the sake of a good name, but that they actually put the needy, the smes, at the centre. no more programmes just because of their name, and no more clear innovation strategies for smes! let us look at new forms of financing. the programmes will now be grouped under the zip. that is a consistent and correct approach. it is particularly good that there is a parallel to the seventh framework programme for research. but we must not continue the mistakes of the past, even if we now put everything under a new mantle. the crucial thing is that growth and jobs come first, not some ideological satisfaction of political groups. but we are in danger of seeing exactly that in the zip, if we look at the strong focus on eco-innovation and energy efficiency, for example. that needs to be re-examined. i will do a little bit of that as rapporteur. we are about to adopt new financial perspectives and in all the countries of europe people are looking more and more to money. they will not forgive us, the legislators, if we do not seize the opportunity now and, instead of ideological disputes, put a clear emphasis on promoting small and mediumsized enterprises, on priority for more jobs.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda includes the joint debate on the recommendation for the second reading by mr dieter-lebrecht koch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on car seats and head restraints [11935/3/2004 c6-0031/2005 2003/0128 (cod)) (a6-0115/2005);the recommendation for the second reading by mr paolo costa, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on car seat belts and restraint systems [11934/3/2004 c6-0029/2005 2003/0130 (cod)) (a6-0120/2005);the recommendation for the second reading by mr paolo costa, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on car seat belts and head restraints [11935/3/2004 c6-0031/2005 2003/0128 (cod)) (a6-0115/2005);the report by mrs ewa petersen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on car seat belts and head restraints [11935/335/03/2004 c6-0031/2005 c6-0013/2005 2003/06 (cod)) (a6-013/2005);the report by mrs ewa petersen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on car seat belts and head restraints [11934/3/3/3/3/334/3/2004 2003/03 (cod)) (a6-05/03 (cod)) (a6-06-05-06-05-06);the report by mrs petersen) and mrs ewael, on the committee on the committee on transport and tourism committee on transport and tourism, on the transport and tourism, on the transport and tourism, on the european union, on car seathlon, on car seat
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i should like to take this opportunity first of all to express our sympathy and condolences to the families of the school children who were the victims of the serious road accident in the irish town of kentstown. this accident, in which five schoolchildren were killed and 46 injured, shows once again that we must do everything we can to mitigate the consequences of such accidents for the occupants. the proposals under discussion today are aimed at this. three of the proposals concern the safety of passengers in commercial vehicles, particularly buses. the fourth proposal concerns the safety of road users at particular risk in the event of a collision with vehicles equipped with bulldozers or bullbars. i would like to mention in this context that i have set up the cars 21 high-level group. the group is to present its recommendations on the future legal framework for the automotive sector by the end of the year. this will include an overview of the measures to be taken in the field of vehicle safety over the next ten years. as regards the three directives on safety belts, i thank mr costa and mr koch for their reports and for their efforts to get the three proposed directives adopted at second reading. the aim of all three directives is ultimately to make it compulsory for all cars other than passenger cars to be fitted with safety belts. you know that's been the case with passenger cars for several years now. this extension mainly concerns coaches. the aim is to prevent passengers from being thrown out of the bus in the event of an accident, which is the most serious consequence of accidents. this is only possible by installing safety belts and making it compulsory to wear them. the commission reiterates that the three directives must be adopted with all the greater urgency, since the fitting of seat belts in new vehicles must of course already be required before the mandatory use of seat belts can be introduced. the only disagreement on the seats is between the council and the committee on transport and tourism. if the safety belts are to be required on all seats, it will be necessary to ban side-facing seats in coaches, since the types of belts currently offered for this purpose do not provide optimum protection for the passenger. however, if the ban were to be imposed immediately, the market segment of the so-called conference buses would have been doomed to disappear. the proposed transitional period of five years will certainly allow industry to develop technical solutions better adapted to the different accident scenarios. the commission welcomes the fact that the two rapporteurs, mr costa and mr koch, have succeeded in reaching a compromise with the other institutions. the commission can accept the proposed amendments in their present form. i hope that this will enable the package to be adopted at second reading. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised by the use of the road safety brake. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for having succeeded in achieving a broad consensus on this proposal at an early stage within the committee on transport and tourism. the commission has already submitted a communication to parliament on pedestrian protection. it included a voluntary commitment by european, japanese and korean car manufacturers to carry out a series of tests on new vehicles to make them more pedestrian-friendly and a ban on rigid frontal protection buckles. in its resolution on this voluntary commitment, parliament called for the control of the use of these frontal protection harnesses to be regulated by law. the commission has responded to this request by parliament in its proposal of october 2003 and i am pleased to note that the report of the committee on transport has reached the same conclusion. the commission can accept any amendments proposed by the committee on transport and tourism. i am therefore confident that this proposal can also be adopted at first reading.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am here today on behalf of our colleague dr koch, who, as president of the european movement in thuringia, is chairing an international symposium on the constitutional treaty, and that is also an important matter. the first part of my contribution on this subject concerns three closely linked proposals for directives by the rapporteurs koch and costa. the commissioner has already explained that the issue is seats, seat belts and head restraints with their respective anchorages in vehicles. in the second part, i would like to address the subject of frontal protection bars or bull bars in cars for the shadow rapporteur, mr koch. this has to do with the protection of pedestrians, especially children, cyclists and wheelchair users. the first part is that we will take a major step towards improving road safety tomorrow by approving the koch report. we shall thus help to reduce red tape and also to safeguard jobs. because we know that a properly fastened seat belt can reduce the severity of injuries and save lives. it is therefore right to require that all seats in vehicles be fitted with safety belts. the requirement to be equipped with such a system, which has so far been limited to passenger cars, is extended to other categories of vehicles, in particular minibuses, certain buses and heavy and light lorries. the ban on the use of side-facing seats in cars, lorries and certain categories of buses is also welcome. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, these seats should only be permitted if they are fitted with appropriate safety belts and if they are grouped in the rear of the vehicle, preferably in a u-shape, around a table. this scheme should apply for at least five years. on the basis of the actual accident data then available and taking into account the further development of safety-belt systems, this regulation must then be extended, preferably in the context of a community type-approval for all vehicle categories. i am glad that, contrary to the initial view of the council and the commission, this is now seen by them as a sound basis for future authorizations. finally, the accident statistics we know, the studies and tests, do not give us any indication of an increased risk for passengers in side-facing seats in large conference buses. this is partly due to the different types of accidents and accident sequences for different vehicles. for cars and minibuses, the frontal impact is typical. this means heavy forward loads on the occupants, but also on the seats and the restraint systems. in the case of large bus accidents, the situation is quite different: they usually tip over. the purpose of the seat belts is not to absorb longitudinal forces but to keep the occupants in their seats in order to prevent them from being ejected from the vehicle. these requirements can be met by seats with side-facing seat belts as well, perhaps even better, than by seats with front- or rear-facing seat belts. the compromise reached, which the commission and the council have also indicated their support for, will help to reduce bureaucratic hurdles in the member states. this is because national exemptions for small series of buses are already possible today with bureaucratic effort. but this is contrary to the internal market strategy and even allows the authorization of side-facing seats without seat belts. the commission's decision will therefore in any case contribute to greater safety in road transport on the one hand and in the internal market on the other. we also decide on the viability of a typical european product in the tourism sector, the vip or conference bus. this will also secure jobs for manufacturers and bus companies and maintain or improve the comfort of travellers. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is adopted as soon as possible, and that the council and the commission agree on the matter. i would like to thank mr costa and the other shadow rapporteurs, and mrs hedkvist petersen for her negotiating skills as rapporteur on frontal protection harnesses for cars, which really do represent a great danger in accidents involving unprotected road users, especially in urban traffic. we're now making sure that new vehicles under 3.5 tons are banned with rigid frontal protection bars. the subsidiarity principle allows member states to subject existing vehicles to these rules and to authorise flexible frontal protection systems, but only in accordance with a uniformly prescribed test procedure. i think this is a good thing in terms of pedestrian protection, in terms of those who are really the most vulnerable in traffic, especially in our cities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report by mrs karin scheele, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on vitamins and minerals in food (com (2003) 0671) (a6-0124/2005).
member of the commission. madam president, i should like to begin by saying that, in order to save time, and because of the brevity of the procedure, a full statement of the commission's position on all the amendments tabled has been made available to parliament, with a request that it be included in the minutes of this sitting. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the scheme. the proposal that exists today covers essentially three issues. on the one hand, the regulation of the composition of food by establishing a list of acceptable vitamins and minerals with maximum and minimum limits, in order of course to ensure the safety of the products. there are provisions on the labelling, advertising and presentation of foods to which these substances have been added, providing the basis for the possibility of analysis and, if necessary, the possibility of regulation for the addition of certain other substances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not used in the same way as foodstuffs. the other relevant legislation only regulates their content in vitamins and minerals, but not in other substances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as regards the issue of vitamins and minerals, the proposal aims at full harmonization, and i think that covers the issue of better regulation, because better regulation does not mean no regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. on this point i agree with mrs belohorská who said that a single community legislation helps both industry and consumers more effectively and we do not have a fragmentation of 25 different laws at different levels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the environment. however, the possibility of a rapid reaction is provided for, if and when necessary - annex iii to the proposal - provided that it is considered that the consumption of these substances in such quantities may constitute a health hazard. i would therefore accept amendments which clarify the subject of other substances, but not the excessive expansion of the number of substances to be considered, and i believe that this approach - as has been done with the proposal for the third annex, where substances which are considered to be hazardous to human health will be included - is the best approach, rather than a positive list, and i am glad that the majority is moving in this direction. finally, i would like to say that i welcome the proposal to improve information for industry and, of course, for consumers by means of increased notifications to the commission, which will be published. but we must find the most appropriate and effective way of achieving this without creating an excessive administrative burden.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the commission's position annex - position of the commission the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: overall the commission can accept 25 amendments, either completely, subject to redrafting, in part or in principle. the commission rejects 29 out of a total of 55 (one amendment is linguistic and does not affect the en version). two amendments are acceptable: amendments nos 11 and 44. two amendments are acceptable partially: amendments nos 2 and 40. four amendments are acceptable partially and subject to redrafting: amendments nos 33, 38, 42 and 55. six amendments are acceptable in principle: amendments nos 13, 22, 28, 31, 34 and 35. 11 amendments are acceptable in principle and subject to redrafting: amendments nos 4, 12, 16, 17, 18, 39, 41, 45, 46, 49 and 54. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item is the report by mrs poli bortone, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on nutrition and health claims made on foods (com (2003) 0424 c5-0329/2003 2003/0165 (cod)) (a6-0128/2005).
member of the commission. madam president, we all agree that we want an informed consumer in the european union; that we want the consumer to be able to decide for himself or herself and not to have a nanny state. it is something we all tend to agree on. however, in order for the consumer to achieve that, we need to provide the consumer with accurate, exact, correct, scientifically justified information. that is very important. we must not forget that in europe the consumer assumes and expects that any label that reaches him or her has been checked and approved by an authority. therefore, there is a responsibility here to do so. i would also like to remind you of something i mentioned earlier, that any vacuum that may be left in community legislation will be filled in by the member states and therefore will defeat the purpose of having this harmonised legislation and will mean a return to a fragmented set of rules and regulations that harm the industry, consumer confidence, cause problems for the internal market and of course do not achieve the level of protection that we would all like to have. that is why we presented this proposal. i would like to thank the committee for all the work it has done on such an important issue, the rapporteur, mrs poli bortone and of course the shadow rapporteurs. i would also like to thank mrs niebler and mr stubb, the draftsmen of the opinions of the two other committees, and the committees themselves, for the work they have done. the proposal says something very simple. it says that no one can make a voluntary claim without having the scientific justification for doing so. we must not forget that these are voluntary claims with the sole aim of profit, it is a marketing tool. therefore, in order to allow the use of this marketing tool for profit, we must make sure that it has the correct scientific justification and that it is substantiated scientifically. consumers, as i said earlier, have to be able to make their own decisions, but they must not be misled. they must not be convinced by products sold on unsubstantiated claims. the adoption of the proposal meets the purposes i would like it to. it protects the consumer; it advances health considerations; it helps the industry, competition and the internal market and it allows innovation. having a common set of rules in a unique legal environment also helps in the internal market and competitiveness. some claims that may have adverse effects will need to remain prohibited. it is also very important to maintain the link between claims and nutritional profiles. once again i have to remind you that these are voluntary claims and if they are going to be made, they have to based on a nutritional balance. if the nutritional balance is questionable then the use as a marketing tool of a specific characteristic of a foodstuff must not be allowed as it will eventually mislead the consumer. the nutritional profile is a key element of the proposal and therefore it should remain.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs. what is the purpose of this regulation? it is a matter of regulating food advertising. the commission proposes to regulate everything: nutrition-related claims (such as fat content, high energy, low energy), health-related claims (such as 'a food strengthens the immune system', 'a food promotes concentration', etc.) and pure well-being claims (such as 'a food keeps fit, gives momentum, gives strength', etc.). the commission is proposing to ban all health claims and to require the approval of the european food safety authority for health claims. how this proposal for a regulation is to be compatible with the lisbon strategy is something that only the gods can really understand. the provisions, with the exception of the harmonisation of nutrition claims, are not to be justified. in all the discussions in the various committees it has been repeatedly stated that we in europe must do something about the obesity of many children. that is true, of course, but we cannot achieve that by banning advertising! if we want to do something about childhood obesity, we need to change our diet, we need to get our children to exercise more, and we need to reduce the amount of time they spend in front of the tv and computer. moreover, why should well-being and affectionate messages which express individual feelings and are easily recognizable as advertising be banned? i think the commission's approach is wrong. everything is forbidden unless it is allowed. that is the philosophy, and the commissioner has put it in words when he says that consumers expect every label to be checked by the authorities. excuse me, but this isn't just about labels, it's about advertising. i do not think that is a good approach and i am grateful that the committee on industry has also delivered an opinion, in particular on the deletion of articles 4 and 11. i hope that we will get the same result tomorrow when we vote: a modification of article 11 and the deletion of article 4.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have been torturing ourselves for two years now with the commission's proposal on food advertising. the commission is clearly overstepping its bounds. it is not a consumer protection policy but a consumer abuse and disempowerment policy because the commission thinks that the european citizens are stupid, fat and greedy. the commission has therefore proposed that food be classified as good and bad by nutritional profiles, using a scientifically untenable method. and above all, on the simply wrong grounds that advertising alone is to blame for the increasing obesity of europeans. this is a strange thing, commissioner. i've been wondering all the time, what planet are you from? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. of course advertising cannot lie! nobody wants to do that! but we don't need advertising censorship. we already have a law protecting the consumer from misleading advertising. and of course, advertising is the lifeblood of the food industry in this saturated food market. innovation in this sector is only possible if one product is different from another. it's the only way to successfully promote and market it. and innovation ultimately benefits the consumer, through ever better products. innovation is the key to business success and, with it, our jobs. do you have any idea how many jobs a law like this would destroy? a bureaucratic monster is to be created here. a cumbersome, time-consuming approval procedure for each individual advertisement from 25 member states to be submitted, of course, word for word in all twenty official languages! this would be the death knell for our smes. but they would be overwhelmed by the constantly new scientific evidence. why should we not be allowed to say more 'fruit is healthy'? because there might be a fruit that the commission finds too sweet? we're making a fool of ourselves. this is a matter of political disillusionment, of anti-europeanism! i ask you, commissioner, to withdraw this proposal at last! i would have told you so earlier, but you don't seem to like talking to these pesky parliamentarians. perhaps you should have come down from the glass tower of the berlaymont building to the lower floors of our offices and joined our committee. then you would know that we will do everything in our power tomorrow in plenary to put an end to this nonsense of nutritional profiles in article 4 and some other things.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the vote tomorrow will be the litmus test of how seriously parliament will take consumer protection in the future. we all know that overweight and obesity are increasing rapidly, especially among children and adolescents. scientists are sounding the alarm because the cost is skyrocketing and will soon be immeasurable. in germany alone, diabetes costs us 20 billion euros a year. we also know that commitment is not going to get us anywhere. that is why we need clear legislation. article 4 gives us the legal lever to protect consumers from misleading advertising. that is why we cannot do without article 4 the nutritional profiles . we can't tear this heart out. we should also clean up the public's misrepresentation. this is not a question of banning products or banning advertising. it is about transparency and clarity for consumers and innovation and competitiveness for industry. you have to be credible. we cannot lament the exploding costs and then publicly become the mouthpiece of a confectionery manufacturer and ignore this consumer protection. we cannot allow foods with undesirable properties, too sweet, too fatty or too salty, to be given a health mantle. i hope that you will not be complacent about consumer protection tomorrow, but that the european parliament will once again demonstrate that we want to make nutrition profiles the heart of the matter and make them the frontrunner in transparency and consumer protection.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when the commissioner mentioned the advantages of this proposal earlier, i would like to repeat them again: a high level of consumer protection, improvement of the free movement of goods in the internal market, high legal certainty for economic operators, fair competition in the food sector, promotion and protection of innovation in the food sector, all these are laudable objectives. but the regulation is designed to achieve this by restricting the principles of the market economy, degrading the citizen to the status of a minor consumer and introducing a very high level of bureaucracy. the basic approach of developing a healthy diet and lifestyle more strongly is fully supported by me. we have to do something. the way proposed is not suitable. it is simply the prerequisite for an alibi so that in a few years we can say: 'we did something. it didn't help, but we can wash our hands of the guilt. the restrictions on advertising, to the point of banning it, are in some ways contrary to a number of scientific and political arguments. the idea of prohibiting the use of such nutrition declarations on certain foods is contrary to the nutritional principle that there are no good and bad foods, but only good or bad diets. the european parliament has reduced consumer protection in all its committees, has respected market economy principles and has eliminated unnecessary bureaucracy. the elimination of article 4 is the heart of these changes. it is time for you in the commission to reconsider your approach. focusing on consumer information will close the legal loopholes for unfair practices by some market players and create a climate of healthy lifestyle aspirations that must be differentiated even across generations. without salt, without sugar, it can't go on. mrs corbey, i have heard your first remarks, and i am very concerned about your way of life. they'll soon run out of food! i have another proposal which could be a continuation of your proposal. you can determine the nutritional value of a human being by the structure of a body. put a chip in the top so that it can only run in certain directions and to certain nutrients in the mall. that would be the absolute patronage of the consumer, and we would have only thin people in europe. i'll give you some advice, take it.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to remind honourable members of two facts. we are talking about health, the health of european citizens. we are talking at the same time of a marketing tool, of a means of making profit on the part of industry, voluntarily, without being obliged to do so. the industry chooses to use a health claim in order to sell a product. it is only logical that this claim should be based on science, should be accurate, truthful and correct. that is a very simple matter. it is one thing to say consumers should decide. do we expect every single consumer to have a phd in chemistry or in biotechnology, or to set up a little lab in their house so that they can analyse every claim and test it to see if it is accurate or not? that is impossible; it is ridiculous; it will not happen. that is why we must make sure that the industry that chooses to use this marketing tool carries out the requisite tests to ensure it is providing correct information. as i said earlier, nobody wants a nanny state, but in our efforts not to have a nanny state, we must not go to the other extreme and abandon consumers, allowing them to be bombarded with inaccurate or misleading information. the result will be exactly the opposite of what was intended: it will be that the consumer will not trust any claim. consumers will ignore even truthful ones, even scientifically based claims, because they cannot choose between the good and the bad claim, the correct and the incorrect claim. therefore the tendency will be – and you heard earlier from mr whitehead about the consumers’ position – for them to ignore all claims. i am sure the industry does not want this. yes, we support innovation, there is no question about that, but innovation based on science, not based on misleading information. we are not banning advertising. this is a misunderstanding and i have to make it clear that there is no question of banning advertising. we are concerned with the message the advertising contains. if it cannot be proved scientifically that a certain product helps health, the advertisement should just say the product tastes good, following the good old way of advertising a product. not everything has to based on health claims if there is no scientific evidence for them. of course, a correct diet is good, but for consumers to decide their diets they have to have the right information. regarding the list, i think again there may be a misunderstanding. the list is not an exclusive list, its aim is to harmonise. therefore, claims that have been approved will be able to be used by everybody, which will help the smaller industries because they will be able to draw on the list and use it without having to go through the approval procedure themselves. regarding smes, when it comes to health they have the same obligations as the larger industries. we just have to make it easier for them to meet these obligations. i agree that we have to simplify the authorisation procedures, but that does not mean that smes can make a claim that is not correct. there is no intention to withdraw this proposal; it is very important. we have an obligation to the european citizens, a responsibility towards them to maintain this level of consumer protection. what we are trying to do is to empower consumers so they can use information that is correct. nutritional profiles are important, they have to remain. they will help ensure that claims are accurate and do not mislead the consumer. also, the authorisation procedure is very important. notification is not enough. it would not offer the necessary consumer protection, nor would it offer fair competition in the industry. however, we can discuss simplifying the procedures to make it easier for smaller businesses to meet the authorisation requirements. article 11, on prohibited claims, can be softened. we can discuss which claims can be allowed and which ones not. there are a number of claims that could lead to an adverse effect, and they should not be allowed. but this is something which is open to discussion. as for children, we all agree that there is a need to protect them. the question is whether this is the most appropriate legislation for doing so. we have other legislation, we have the directive on unfair commercial practices, which was approved recently. we also have non-regulatory procedures like the platform on obesity, which we launched recently. through these legislative and non-legislative procedures we can offer protection to children. applying this particular legislation to the protection of children would only complicate matters and not achieve the target. finally, madam president, i apologise for exceeding my speaking time and i would like to say that a complete list of the commission’s position on all the amendments is available to parliament. i would request that it be included in the record of this part-session see annex..
it was not a proper motion for a resolution.
member of the commission. madam president, i am informed that the court did not contest the existence of the positive list. it contested the procedure. therefore, we will adjust accordingly on the procedure. second, it is not an exclusive list, so that also avoids any problem. we therefore believe that this form of positive list will survive. while i have the floor i should mention something i forgot to point out to the honourable member. for some time now we have been trying to arrange a date on which i can visit the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in order to introduce the health and consumer programme and answer other questions. owing to various problems affecting the committee and myself, it has taken longer than i would have wished.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the commission's position annex - position of the commission the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: 18 amendments can be accepted: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. nine amendments are acceptable, subject to redrafting: 7, 18, 28, 42, 45, 52, 61, 76 and 84. seven amendments are acceptable in principle: amendments nos 10, 13, 15, 37, 38, 51 and 101. one amendment is acceptable in principle, subject to redrafting: amendment no 54. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. six amendments are partially acceptable, subject to redrafting: 8, 36, 59, 73, 92 and 102. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the european community and the republic of turkey on the conclusion of the agreement. no position on amendment 22 which will not be voted (linguistic issue).
the next item is the report by mrs agnes schierhuber, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the financing of the common agricultural policy (com (2004) 0489 - c6-0166/2004 - 2004/0164 (cns)) (c-0127/2005).
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to thank mrs schierhuber and the committee on agriculture and rural development for their very good cooperation, which i appreciate very much. i hope that it will be possible to reach a political compromise on this issue during the luxembourg presidency. on rural development, i would like to say to mrs mcguinness that we share a common vision. it is the future of agriculture and, as i used to say, it is also the life insurance for agriculture. concerning financing, if we look at the commission proposal for the next financial period, approximately eur 100 billion will be available for the next financial period, including the modulated money. i think this will be sufficient. however, i would be worried if the countries that support the 1% succeeded during the ongoing discussions on the financial framework, because then we would not have enough money to realise our vision of a common rural development policy. therefore, i can only encourage those who are really in favour of this policy to put pressure on member states to finance it to the level we regard as necessary, in order to give rural development policy a proper future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the functions of stock exchanges and financial markets in the eu by mr pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy (0-0069/2005 b6-0240/2005).
member of the commission. madam president, the commission thanks the honourable member for her question. i am really pleased, even if it is late, that we can talk about this very important item. i should have started with the apologies of my colleague, commissioner mccreevy. he was very sorry that he was unable to here, but you can be assured that his thoughts are with us in this debate. the commission is aware of the ongoing projects and discussions in this area and is monitoring all the developments. national and also, as mrs van den burg has already mentioned, pan-european consolidation and restructuring in this sector is market led. a merger of two or three eu stock exchanges would necessarily have an important impact on the structure of the market for eu equities trading and post-trading. the commission intends to maintain its leadership role in driving towards an integrated eu financial services market. the commission also favours the combined intervention of market forces and public authorities to ensure fair competition between all forms of securities trading venue, including exchanges in regulated markets, as well as newer trading devices, such as multilateral trading facilities and the internationalisation of orders in investment firms. mergers in this sector are subject to normal regulatory and competition authority oversight. concerning the application of council regulation (ec) no 139/2004, the merger regulation, as well as the competition rules more generally, the commission would like to recall that these rules apply to all industry sectors equally. the commission believes that the current provisions of the merger regulation allow for efficient and appropriate assessment procedures. we are confident in the capacity of the national competition authorities to carry out the assessments. commission services are in contact with the competition authorities concerned and have met with a number of interested parties, including the potential bidders. usually, the more you can decentralise, the better it is, because those national competition authorities are very able to do their jobs. therefore, i am usually in favour of the national competition authorities doing their jobs. there is a lot of contact and discussion within the network, so it is not a matter of them being on their own, but of doing it together. the honourable member was concerned that a merger could lead to upwards pressure on trading prices. this is certainly being examined. one of the central issues in the investigations being conducted by the competition authorities is to ensure that a merged entity includes mechanisms to ensure that competition rules are respected, also for the medium and long term. also noteworthy is the increased competition that is likely to come from the mifid, from internationalisation and multilateral trading facilities in particular and the fact that capital markets are increasingly global. we should not forget the potential of mergers to lead to increased innovation in terms of the products and services that are offered to investors. the commission cannot take a position on an individual corporate decision made by the new york stock exchange and its future strategies. mrs van den burg touched upon that issue. in case of any prospective future merger, normal provisions would apply and, to the extent that there may be any regulatory concerns, this should be for the sec to deal with. in this respect, the commission notes that many of the important exchanges in europe, including all the parties involved in the lse merger discussions, are already listed as regulated markets in the eu. in europe we have found ways of ensuring that regulatory functions are kept at a sufficient remove from the commercial interests of exchange, and there is no reason to suspect that this will not be the case in other developed markets. i would like to thank mrs van den burg for mentioning this issue. as the honourable member is aware, the office of fair trading has referred the cases to the competition commission, and this is the equivalent of what we would call a phase 2 investigation at european level. the national competition authorities are clearly taking this issue most seriously and the commission is confident that they are examining all aspects which could potentially impact on competition. this is illustrated – to answer the point mrs van den burg has touched upon – by the questions raised in their issues paper. that would, of course, cover post-trading activities, as explicitly mentioned in the fta’s decision in the cases referred to the competition commission. i have just one more point to make. you mentioned the dutch situation concerning blue-chip equities, which is something of which we are both aware. in my opinion it did not work; it was not successful. however, it was possible that it could have worked; there was potential. there is competition. it depends on what the market is doing. we always keep an eye on situations like that. such things can sometimes be successful or sometimes fail.
the debate is closed.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this area. i would like to make a preliminary remark: the integration of economic and employment guidelines is a step in the right direction. however, it is a mistake to dissociate the sustainable development guidelines from this. so we can only speak of a crippled integration at this point. i would now like to turn to the content of the employment guidelines and the report by our dedicated colleague, ana mato adrover. the commission proposal basically makes the labour market the plaything of liberalisation. what is needed is not more employment with a living wage and quality jobs, but deregulation of working conditions and wages. i cannot understand why there was no outcry when it became known that these guidelines call on the highest political authority to keep wages low. i also think it is irresponsible to set in motion a trend whereby employers no longer participate in the health insurance of their employees. i also regret that the rapporteur rejects our proposal to reinstate the fourth pillar of employment policy, namely measures to support women's access to employment. gender mainstreaming is not a substitute for this, but an important complement. since the fourth pillar has been abolished, active employment measures in the member states to promote women have been abandoned. we cannot accept that. the promotion of women's employment must continue to play a central role, and i urge once again and appeal to colleagues to reintroduce the fourth pillar, because it is the only way to ensure that we can verify that the promotion of women's employment is also taken seriously in the member states. i would ask for support for our amendment no 30.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the integrated guidelines which are being discussed here today have, in my view, been wrongly claimed to finally boost the economy and employment within the european union. the guidelines again focus on the governance of markets, which has one main objective: to make workers fit for the needs of the market, whatever the sector. this is not the way to solve structural problems, both social and economic. political crises such as the one in the federal republic of germany show that these instruments do not work and have failed. i do not understand why the combination of instruments which have been inadequate until now should suddenly be the only means of achieving a real breakthrough, particularly in terms of employment and economic growth within the european union. i would therefore urge you to reconsider the basic approach.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the new agreement between parliament and the commission is on the table. by agreeing to this agreement, you can help to strengthen cooperation between the two institutions. that would also be a correct response to the destructive debate which took place yesterday and which was aimed at disrupting the cooperation between these two institutions. i would like to thank all those who have negotiated this agreement over the last six months, because this step will once again strengthen the powers of parliament as both legislator and budgetary authority. the political responsibilities of the president and the members of the commission will also be clarified, not in a showcase but in a transparent procedure. i think this new agreement is a real step forward. it is introducing a new culture of cooperation, which seeks transparent working procedures, which implies mutual respect for the functions of our institutions and which seeks constructive dialogue for the policies of the european union. i'm asking for your consent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a request on behalf of our group, which is not a change to the agenda but only an addition to the title. the council and commission are due to make statements on the preparations for the european council on wednesday morning from 9.00 to 12.00. after the referenda, i think it is appropriate that this should be mentioned. we therefore ask that the title be changed to 'the future of the european union after the constitutional referenda'. it is clear that we are not just going to go over to the agenda, but that we are going to discuss this issue as a priority. it would be very appropriate for us to do so. (applause from the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had signed up for question time earlier. you didn't see that. i just wanted to ask for clarification on the rules of procedure. the right to ask questions is an individual right of the member and is therefore particularly protected. i doubt it can be overturned by majority decisions. i would ask you to stick to the one and a half hour question period in future. it is guaranteed by the rules of procedure as an individual right of the member.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since his fraudulent victory in the presidential elections in october 2004, lukashenko has intensified repression against the opposition in belarus. a few days ago, on 1 june, the chairman of the belarusian social democratic party and founder of the european movement in belarus was sentenced to three years in prison. he had done nothing but demonstrate with others against the rigging of the presidential elections. mr president, i would ask you to make a strong protest to the authorities in belarus against this repression. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world that has to deal with this problem. i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on the situation in the community. it is not true that more than half of the citizens of europe have already voted in favour. this is simply wrong! in germany, less than 600 meps voted in favour. over 80 million citizens were not surveyed. a major german daily asked its readers last week. nearly 380,000 readers participated, 96% of whom were against the constitution. i do not think that the voters in france and the netherlands who voted against the constitution are to blame, but rather those who voted for the opening of accession negotiations with turkey and for the early accession of romania and bulgaria. we should discuss this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i want to make one thing clear: we are not talking about infrastructure that is publicly owned, but a large part of the networks we are talking about and which are to be developed are privately owned by large energy companies. this debate is therefore very different from the debate on transport. we reject the report by mrs laperrouze. although we have tried to improve it in certain areas, we have not succeeded. we believe that this wish list of 300 projects of european interest is really just a wish list to make the heart beat faster for energy supply companies which have the status of oligopolies in europe. we believe that this will rather strengthen the power and influence of european energy companies, which are already too powerful and act against the market, and we do not believe that we will really get anywhere in terms of security of supply if we only strengthen the interests of these companies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work and for their willingness to discuss this subject. we are discussing today the establishment of guidelines for the transeuropean energy networks. the decision on these guidelines sets the stage for a modern infrastructure of transeuropean networks in the energy sector. i should like to use my brief speech to highlight a point which is particularly close to my heart: the decision will for the first time include the so-called alkane gas pipelines in the transeuropean energy networks. i agree with the rapporteur that this is extremely important in the interests of the european site. the commission proposal does not, however, have any specific routes. i think that is a disadvantage and i have tabled amendment no 39 on behalf of my group to correct that. at present, individual algae grids already exist in the european union. we find these networks in the west of our continent and in the new member states. however, there is a missing link. amendment no 39, which i would like to promote very strongly again, lists a few selected routes which can help to close these gaps quickly and in a sustainable way. this ensures the supply of alkene gases and the survival of our companies. given the limited resources available, it is clear that not every project can be supported. i am not talking about financial support for the routes mentioned in my amendment. i am simply concerned with making a clear political statement and sending a signal that these routes are of particular importance to the european union and the member states. i therefore ask you once again to support amendment no 39 in the vote tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs mechthild rothe, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services (com (2003) 0739 c5-0642/2003 2003/0300 (cod)) (a6-0130/2005).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has responded to an urgent need by presenting this proposal for a directive on energy efficiency and energy services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the internal market in electricity and gas, and has also proposed concrete measures to deal with the demand side of the market, since it is not responsible to use our second largest energy resource as little as we do today. all credible studies say that the energy saving potential in the eu, which can be exploited without economic loss, without reducing comfort, is 20 to 30%; the technical potential is over 40%. we know that the increasing dependence on imports, partly from crisis regions, and the current energy consumption is a major cause of the climate problem. all this forces us to launch a real policy of energy efficiency and energy saving. this means, as commissioner piebalgs said, a policy for climate protection, a policy to increase security of supply and a policy which is part of the lisbon strategy, namely for many new jobs. hundreds of thousands of new jobs are to be created in this sector. i would like to thank the commission for presenting this directive and i would also like to thank you, commissioner piebalgs, for giving this area of energy efficiency a very special importance, as you have said on many occasions, and for presenting a green paper on this subject shortly. in this proposal for a directive, the commission has proposed binding objectives, as the commissioner has just said. i am glad that the committee has followed my suggestion to stick to this commitment and, while making appropriate increases in the targets proposed by the commission, to give member states more flexibility by setting three periods of three years instead of annual ones. commissioner, you have just said that the commission wants to bring the top-down model a little bit more into the picture. but then we have to talk about the objectives again: the more top-down, the higher the objectives have to be. we said in committee that we wanted to stick to the bottom-up system. it will not be difficult for any member state to achieve energy savings of between 3% and 4.5% in each of the three years following the implementation of the measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy savings achieved by the community are not exceeded. this means that if, for example, the overall energy consumption increases because of economic developments, it would have increased more without these measures. the additional relief for some member states is that previously adopted savings measures which are still in effect are to be credited. in addition, and this is also important, we also agree with the commission that the public service should set an example, as we have already done in other directives. i am confident that by voting tomorrow parliament will send a clear signal to the council that it should not run away into a situation of non-commitment. i am also confident that we can do this by a large majority. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs, mr vidal-quadras roca, mrs hall and mr turmes, for the very good cooperation we have had. an important result of our cooperation is the development of a compromise which we propose to you. the committee had two approaches to the vote: the approach already described of clear, binding targets to be met by action by the member states and a benchmark approach. we have already proposed a compromise to you, which provides that the binding target first applies and that, once benchmarks have been set for all areas - which is not easy and may take time - these benchmarks will meet these objectives. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank my group on behalf of my colleague, mr claude turmes, who is stuck in traffic on the motorway and cannot therefore express his thanks to the rapporteur for the very cooperative and productive cooperation which has been shown in the preparation of this report. we believe that this report will help to put the demand side, and not always the supply side, at the centre of the energy strategy. this has been neglected in many decades of energy policy debate, and we hope that we will be able to take the offensive here also with the rothe report . 40% technical savings potential, that's a lot. 20% is economically feasible today without having to internalize the external costs. i would like to say at this point that we have made compromises and support the report. we believe that these figures show that the commission and the council can be much more ambitious in this area. we believe, mr paasilinna, that the mandatory targets are not harmful, and if i am right, enormous savings could be made in finland in the field of heat alone. i would like to see the berlin energy agency, for example, set an example in the field of energy efficiency. energy services, for us, are a bit of the key to the future of energy efficiency. we believe that we need to create a market for energy services so that our ambitious goals can be realized. i believe that once again, economics and ecology can go hand in hand in this area, because what we can achieve, besides enormous environmental benefits, is jobs - especially in small and mediumsized enterprises - if we tackle this area systematically. the rapporteur, mrs rothe, has touched on the subject of public buildings. we must set an example here. we have been discussing this for a long time in germany. we have already started in berlin, for example, but we have not yet fully exploited all the potential in germany either. in conclusion, i would like to express my conviction that we can only succeed in achieving the major objectives we are pursuing in the energy policy debate - independence and security of supply - and in overcoming the major risks - climate change and nuclear risk - if we finally take energy efficiency and energy saving seriously and follow our big, ambitious words with action. i am sure that mr piebalgs will be the first commissioner in europe who not only speaks but also acts.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. this is a good day for the european union, for policyholders, but also for insurance companies, because with the debate today and the vote tomorrow - which i assume will be unanimous - the much-maligned bureaucratic obstacles will be removed and european reinsurance will be strengthened in international competition. the supervision of primary insurance is regulated in numerous directives throughout europe: the european union has already put in place wide-ranging and necessary instruments to protect policyholders in the framework of the non-life and life insurance directives and the provisions on the solvency of insurance companies. the aim is to complete this body of rules by harmonizing the supervision of reinsurance. the directive, which was the subject of a major debate in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, is therefore an important element in the complementary approach to supervision in this important service sector. the reinsurance directive, which has now been successfully launched after more than three years of preparatory work, is largely based on the existing supervisory systems for primary insurance. in close cooperation with the council - as has already been said - the competent authorities of the member states and the representatives of the reinsurance industry, substantial differences between primary and reinsurance were also identified and taken into account in the draft directive. this includes, in particular, a uniform treatment of life and non-life reinsurance with regard to solvency margins, a prudential approach to capital investment and a clear time limit of 36 months after the entry into force of the directive for collateral which is still required by the supervisory authorities in each member state, the so-called collaterals. the harmonising but also liberalising regulation sought will further strengthen the competitive position of european reinsurance companies - this has already been said - and thus the european financial centre as a whole. at the same time, administrative barriers within the community are being removed. the implementation of the directive will eliminate the burden of national licensing within the eu. the supervisory authority of the home member state shall exercise the necessary supervision. the authorisation of a reinsurer is then valid for the whole of the eu. a major reorganization of the entire insurance industry is expected to be settled by corresponding applications or 'solvency ii' in the next year or two. i have submitted a proposal to ensure that this reinsurance directive does not prejudge the political debate on 'solvency' today. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr peter skinner, for the good cooperation and we would like to see more time in the committees and more preparation for the next discussion of such an important resource.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, my colleague mrs agnes schierhuber. the commission has done a great deal of work in this report, which seeks to balance a great many different interests, all of which are certainly legitimate. 60% of the people and 90% of the territory of the eu. these two figures illustrate very well the importance of rural development as the second pillar of the european union's agricultural policy. without a happy rural population, there can be no happy eu population. in the light of recent political developments and the failure of referendums, this acceptance of european politics must not only be more clearly in our consciousness, but also, and fundamentally, be more widely recognised. in view of the empty coffers and the distribution struggles, i must also remind you that the eu budget was an agricultural budget in its historical origins. the policy areas added later must not turn this historic european heartland into a shadow. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the financing of the common agricultural policy. i therefore expressly support the financial allocation proposed by mrs schierhuber for all three priorities. it is of great importance that the eligibility of micro-enterprises be extended to medium-sized enterprises in rural areas. we must also join the rapporteur in demanding that the financing of natura 2000, which has not yet been clarified, be provided not by the second pillar but by additional funds. i would like to thank mrs schierhuber and all the other members who have worked hard on this important report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr duquesne has already explained in detail the need to take measures to contain, combat and prevent terrorism in europe and worldwide. in the context of not only the reports which are now due, but also the one i have to deal with, namely the retention of data, i would like to recall what the european court of justice has said on the fight against terrorism, namely that states, whatever the means they use, whatever the measures they adopt, however legitimate they may be, must constantly consider whether these measures do not endanger what they are actually trying to protect. this is the free society, if you will, this is the right to privacy. i very much agree with my fellow shadow rapporteurs, whom i would also like to thank at this point, that we are not fundamentally opposed to the proposal by the united kingdom, ireland, france and sweden. we are, however, quite certain that any measures which involve a drastic intervention in fundamental rights, which in legal terms always - as you learn in the first semester at any university in europe - require a justification, must be presented in the form of a necessity analysis. it is intended to justify not only the need but also the added value of storing the data of 450 million people in public telecommunications networks - internet, telephone, mobile phones, sms - in principle. the problem i would like to raise again in this context is first and foremost the procedure. thank you for the communication we've had. the procedure was for all love clearly worthy of improvement. the report you are voting on today is based on a report from april last year. in the meantime, several amendments have been made to the council proposal. the last proposal was dated 24 may. in the meantime, the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward its own proposals. it is not possible to expect parliament - which is not up to date, which has not been involved in the current discussions in the form in which we have officially received a new document - to express its full satisfaction with the cooperation with the institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data on the use of the euro are not used in the same way as those on the use of the euro. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the other question we had was a legal one: how is this compatible with article 8 of the european convention on human rights with the protection of privacy? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and it is not surprising that the commission has been able to take this initiative. where and under what constitutional law will this fail at the latest? another aspect is the political message presented in the explanatory memorandum of the first document, namely that those who are not yet suspected should be deliberately identified in order to combat terrorism and organised crime as comprehensively and efficiently as possible. perhaps we should look at the alternatives that are on the market. we have the convention on cybercrime, which presents proposals on how to bring data storage and data protection into some kind of balance, for example by working on data freeze or data preservation. we have a convention on cybercrime, which brings several proposals that have not been implemented in any country so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope the message we send from here will be received correctly. we're ready to cooperate! we also want the right procedure to be followed, and this is - as the report shows - the first pillar in which we, as parliament, would be involved as a co-decision-maker and not just as an advisory body. maybe we can take that with us, and maybe we'll be treated with the same respect that we treat you in our work.
a writer. mr president, mr president of the commission! i would be interested in this debate to see how much the european union and the council are concentrating on the issue of bioterrorism. i realize that the best prevention is a good and effective foreign policy. unfortunately, some of the european voters have misunderstood this in recent weeks, and that is certainly also our fault. however, we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that the problem of bioterrorism is upon us. we hope not, but if it does come, i would like to hear from the commission and the council how they are preparing for it. i would also like to know how the preparations have progressed over the last year and over the last few months since we have a common european coordinator on this matter. if the rumours are true - and i hope they are not - that cooperation around my country is disastrous, then i would like to know what steps the commission and the council are taking to deal with this matter seriously. there is no doubt that this is a european task and a european added value. i look forward to hearing the commission's comments.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i was the author of the opinion in the committee on industry on data retention and i would like to deal with this subject only. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all those involved for their work. it is certainly beyond question that the democracies of the european union must confront and combat the threat of crime and terrorism. the commission's proposal on data retention could provide some money for this, but not in this form. the proposal for a framework decision has rightly been subject to considerable criticism in this house, across the political groups. i would like to make a few points. the proposal does not answer the crucial question of the actual need and appropriateness of data retention. unfortunately, there is no plausible evidence that the proposed measures will actually improve the fight against crime and terrorism. however, this evidence is a prerequisite for justifying the significant impact of this type of data retention on both citizens and businesses. i know that the commission is currently working on its own proposal. i would ask the commission - and i have personally written to commissioner frattini on this matter - to carry out an independent impact assessment to see whether the costs and benefits of the proposed measures are really proportionate. let me say one more thing about the procedure so far: i would have liked a different form of involvement of parliament in this sensitive matter from a procedural point of view. data protection concerns that really affect every citizen, every business, require an ordinary legislative procedure. the european parliament is also involved in this, under the ec treaty. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we agree that we must take decisive action against international terrorism and organised crime. i would like to stress once again today that we must take the appropriate measures. the proposal for the retention of data is not, in my view and that of my group, appropriate. we have shown this clearly in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs with our vote. i would also like to congratulate mr alvaro on his report. the protection of personal data of individuals is not guaranteed by the council's proposal. the european telecommunications industry is burdened with enormous costs and storage is not in a reasonable proportion to the benefits. there are too many ways of getting around this problem, and the council's proposal does not provide any answers. what about flat rates, using phones from abroad, from brazil, asia, to mention a few? even the german association of criminal investigation officers emphasizes that the quality of the data is crucial, not necessarily the quantity or duration of storage. in this case, we are dealing with blind actionism, which only supposedly leads to greater security. we cannot seriously be interested in storing the data of over 400 million people who use the internet, use the telephone and send text messages. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is taking a very serious and very serious approach to the problem of the european union's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe. the us congress has rejected a similar bill on data retention, and this - you won't believe it - on the grounds that these measures are too far-reaching. instead, they were able to agree on the perhaps sensible measure of quick freeze. why can't we do the same in europe? the german bundestag rejected the council's proposal. finland has also recently warned against data retention. what really excites me and gives me a real rush of enthusiasm are the current plans of the european ministers of justice to enforce the council's plans for data retention, contrary to the recommendation of our committee, without the co-decision of parliament. any attempt to force parliament out of the co-decision procedure is no longer comprehensible and is even dangerous in the light of the recent referendums in france and the netherlands. this is not a matter of a single measure to combat terrorism, but of protecting the citizens and the rights of every individual in this european union. the european union is not going to move forward by saying that we will decide this alone, as we have done. the european union has failed in many ways, and many people are concerned about the often selfish policies of the ministers of the individual member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would remind you of benjamin franklin, the father of the american constitution, who rightly said: the man who is willing to give up his freedom to gain security will lose both. we know that since the criminal attacks in madrid europe has become a direct target of international terrorism. this is a situation which policy must undoubtedly take into account. terrorism in all its forms is a crime that threatens the very foundations of our democracy, and these crimes must be fought and punished as such. but they must be fought by the appropriate means, without sacrificing freedom. the investigation authorities of our countries must of course cooperate more closely. at the same time, we must not allow ever more random data and information to be collected, linked and exchanged until the glass citizen is created in the near future. the road to an orwellian surveillance state must not be taken. the fundamental rights of citizens must not be put at risk. we need a targeted policy which, on the one hand, condemns all forms of terrorism and, on the other hand, is directed towards combating the various causes of terrorism. it is the only way to finally remove the breeding ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner frattini, i would like to thank you for your report. i just want to make one point, and that is that you said at the very end of your speech that you will be running two simulations in the near future. i would ask you to inform parliament in good time; it will be very important to cooperate. i myself participated in a simulation event in washington on 14 january with my colleague jerzy buzek. this was the atlantic storm event, which was about bioterrorism. we then discussed this again in brussels on 25 april in the context of the new defence agenda. we have essentially come to three points which we simply need to talk about more. the first point was that we came to realise that cooperation has to be much more intensive than we know it to be today. this applies both to cooperation between member states and between europe and the united states and other countries which are relevant and should be involved. this cooperation is extremely important because it is still very sporadic at the moment. it is not systematic, and it is not methodological, so that you can be really satisfied with the system we have today. it's not reliable, and it's not transparent. it is not, moreover, sufficiently transparent with parliament. only if it is transparent can you also see the gaps and make improvements accordingly. this is the one side. the second aspect which is not sufficiently guaranteed is prevention. i would like to ask you, particularly in the area of bioterrorism, how far we are now in the prevention of vaccines. in our simulation in washington, we found that the eu member states have very different levels of vaccine availability. this will lead to conflict, commissioner, if there is an attack, which we do not hope for. i would ask you to comment on this again. the last point i want to make is on a completely different subject. we should always be careful in our debate that when we talk about muslim fundamentalists, we do not confuse them with islam as a whole. that would be very helpful to our political discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. terrorism is a huge threat. that is why we are dealing with this today and why there have been seven reports on this subject. this is a problem which can only be solved jointly, together with the various countries in europe. i have sometimes thought during the debate that if some of the citizens who voted in france and the netherlands had been able to understand a little of what is happening here, then perhaps one or the other vote would have been different, if it had been possible to make it clear that there is only one solution to such problems if we act together. and maybe the seven different stories and the multitude of models is also a sign that we need to focus on the essentials if we want people to understand this and go down this path. it is not a matter of constantly having new proposals and new programmes and thus also raising expectations , but we must make sure that people realise that what we do in the field of counter-terrorism also has an impact, that something comes out of it, that the eu coordinator for counter-terrorism is not just an authority but that together with the commission it also achieves effectiveness, that europol, eurojust are empowered, that democratic control takes place. it is essential - and it is also stated in a report - that we as a parliament commit ourselves to ensuring that the instruments we put in place are also checked on the road. did they have an effect? what was the effect? can one or the other measure be withdrawn? is it not more important to focus on the essentials?i am at the last point that is important to me. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes than to provide information. this is a post where actionism is taking place, where you seem to be reassuring people, but where you may not end up changing anything when it comes to people's safety. but that does not help people to think that europe is good and important and to accept our work. i do not want to take responsibility for this, and i say this for the fifth or sixth time: the responsibility for this lies with the national governments, which are acting in an actionist way because they want to appease their conscience without achieving anything in terms of effectiveness.
acting president of the council. mr president, first of all, let me thank the seven rapporteurs for the exemplary work they have done, which shows that the fight against terrorism must be a comprehensive approach covering many areas. i believe that these seven reports also show the interest that your parliament has in this question of the fight against terrorism. we are still deeply affected by the events of 11 september 2001 and by the terrorist attack in madrid on 11 march 2004. these cowardly attacks have affected us all, european citizens and citizens of the world. these were attacks on democracy, on the values we stand for, and that is why the fight against terrorism must be a merciless fight, but also a fight for democracy. you can't defend democracy by putting it in jeopardy. in many speeches this morning, there is a concern to fight more effectively and to engage more clearly in the fight against terrorism and terrorist networks, but also a concern that this fight does not compromise our democratic rights and civil liberties. we are always engaged in this balancing act: we must preserve our rights and freedoms, while being ruthless to all those who want to endanger these rights and freedoms. we are a long way from the orwellian vision of the state that wants to control everything. however, we must be on guard to avoid any drifting in that direction. however, we must not forget that terrorism uses all the means and all the new technologies, that it has become a global and globalised phenomenon, that it acts in networks and uses the internet like any globalised enterprise. in order to deal with this threat, we can no longer give up on combating this phenomenon by depriving ourselves of certain means, such as the retention of information. but in this context, we must be careful to respect privacy. it's always a matter of proportionality. i agree with the idea that has been raised about the protection of privacy. however, we cannot renounce certain techniques if we are to remain effective in this fight against terrorism. europe must set an example in this respect. in other places, there is a tendency to take this protection of privacy and individual rights lightly. europe must show that the fight against terrorism and respect for rights can go hand in hand, without sacrificing or neglecting the effectiveness of this fight. i also heard the criticisms of the european union regarding coordination and the exchange of information. since the events, especially those in madrid, coordination has improved considerably, particularly thanks to mr de vries, who has been given a special mission to coordinate all the activities of the european union and its member states in the field of the fight against terrorism. we must pay tribute to his work and commitment in this regard. i have also noticed that there are some who fear that europe is not prepared for other kinds of threats even more terrible than those we have already experienced in the two attacks i have mentioned. this is bioterrorism. this threat is beyond our imagination, beyond our understanding. but it is possible. we can't rule him out right away. so we need to prepare for it. i would like to take this opportunity to answer mr florenz's question, who specifically raised the question of the threat of bioterrorism and the threat of nuclear terrorism. it is clear that this type of terrorism, which includes chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear terrorism, constitutes a threat to international peace and security. we know that terrorist networks have a persistent interest in these substances and weapons and that, if they were to acquire such weapons of mass destruction, they would be able to cause damage on an unprecedented scale and undermine the democratic foundations of our societies. that is why the european union should pay greater attention to the threat of biological, nuclear and chemical terrorism. you drew a parallel with the us legislation in this area. europe can certainly draw a great deal from what is being done in the united states, particularly in terms of training teams, building up vaccine stocks, research and development work on medical countermeasures, etc. similar initiatives have already been taken by the member states. the union institutions have also been involved in this type of activity. the union has, for example, early warning systems for all types of terrorist attacks, for which a central access point, called argus, will be set up within the commission. under the directive amending the directive establishing a community code relating to medicinal products for human use, member states are now entitled to allow the temporary distribution of authorised medicinal products in response to an attack resulting in the spread of pathogens, toxins, chemical agents or nuclear radiation. anti-cbrn training of medical staff is ongoing. information on civil protection capabilities and blood stocks shall be exchanged within civil protection mechanisms. other very extensive research is being carried out under the sixth research and development programme to better cope with such possible actions. the council's strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is aimed at preventing terrorists from having access to such weapons, and it is regrettable that the new york conference was unable to agree on a common text, since one of the components of the non-proliferation conference was on the terrorist threat in these areas. as part of another directive, resulting from the declaration on the fight against terrorism adopted by the european council of 25 march 2004, the council and the commission adopted on 2 december 2004 the european union solidarity programme in the face of the consequences of terrorist threats and attacks, which revised the cbrn programme and extended it to all forms of terrorism. one of the basic principles of the eu strategy is that protection against the consequences of terrorist attacks is primarily the responsibility of the member states. however, the declaration on solidarity against terrorism adopted by the european council on 25 march 2004 confirms that the institutions of the european union and the member states are firmly committed to using all the instruments at their disposal to assist a member state on its territory, at the request of its political authorities. in this connection, i cannot refrain from referring to a provision of the constitution which strengthens the character of solidarity, particularly in the event of terrorist attacks. the cbrn programme and its successor, the solidarity programme, are multidisciplinary programmes involving political, technical, economic, diplomatic, military and legal means. it's hard enough, but, well... the european union's action against cbrn terrorism under the current solidarity programme is based on six strategic objectives, which i should like to mention briefly. threat analysis and assessment: several analyses of these threats have been undertaken by europol and the european union joint situation centre, sitcen. prevention and reduction of vulnerability: legislative measures have been taken to improve compliance with international biosecurity and biosafety standards. detection of cbrn-type attacks: the commission has taken steps to extend and coordinate community systems for detection, communication and information on chemical and biological threats to human, animal and plant health. finally, preparation to mitigate the consequences of possible attacks: the commission is assessing the civil protection, medical and pharmaceutical capabilities that member states could put at each other's disposal. it develops rules on the treatment of diseases linked to these substances. the council has also established a database of military assets and capabilities of interest to the protection of civilian populations against the effects of terrorist attacks, including cbrn-type attacks. as part of the reflection on the esdp dimension of the fight against terrorism, civil/military interoperability in the cbrn area is under consideration. the council is also working on an integrated crisis management regime. international cooperation is of course very important in this respect: it has broadly the same objectives as the solidarity programme, namely the sharing of epidemiological information on the cross-border spread of infectious diseases and cooperation on emergency plans, laboratory detection techniques, non-proliferation, mutual assistance and coordination of responses. the united states is involved in this work. another dialogue will be opened in due course. we believe that international cooperation, particularly with the americans but also with all other partners, is extremely important in this respect. i simply want to conclude on this, before the votes take place and my colleague, vice-president frattini, speaks: i believe that the european union is engaged in a comprehensive process of preparation for the fight against all forms of terrorism. the fight against terrorism - as i said at the beginning and as your reports have shown - must be a comprehensive approach. one theme must certainly be of particular concern to us: we must prevent terrorist groups from recruiting in our own societies. indeed, it is recruitment into our own societies, particularly among young people who are uprooted and poorly integrated into our societies, that constitutes the greatest terrorist threat. these young people are, in a sense, the breeding ground for unimaginable and unthinkable acts. but these actions reflect a form of desperation. the social dimension, the integration and treatment of these groups, particularly young people from muslim countries, must therefore be integrated into our counter-terrorism strategy. that is how we can win this battle, which must be won, in our own territories, in the union.
i should like to take this opportunity to welcome our former colleague mr de vries, and to wish him much strength for his great task. i would like to welcome you, mr de vries.
in writing. improving energy efficiency is an important objective for a number of reasons. that is why we support all reasonable efforts to use energy efficiently. the present rothe report, however, meets these criteria only to a very limited extent: too much bureaucracy, too much centralism and questionable methods of improving energy efficiency in europe. despite all the reservations, we agree with the report at first reading, as the benchmark approach which we favour is included as an option. we call on the council and the commission to adopt the benchmark approach instead of the flat rate targets and to make the necessary preparations for implementing this approach quickly in order to make the flat rate targets obsolete for an implementation period as well. if this is not taken into account, we shall vote against these binding percentage targets at second reading.
in writing. the oreja report (a6-0166/2005), 'proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the subject of terrorist attacks - prevention, prevention and response' (2005/2043 (ini)), as part of the 'anti-terrorism package' adopted today by the european parliament, also aims to establish a legal area to combat terrorism, including through mutual recognition of judgments, police action and the exchange of information between police and intelligence services: fundamental rights are at risk of being lost. this practice has been increasingly criticised in the member states since the establishment of the european arrest warrant. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is already evident from the first experience with this arrest warrant. if a person is extradited to another eu country, there is no longer any possibility of a judicial review. the oreja report is particularly critical of the aim of 'exchanging information between different police and intelligence services'; of 'exchanging information on suspected terrorists and their organisations with third countries and international organisations'; of encouraging increased specialisation 'by europol and eurojust in the fight against terrorism'. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen! i shall now take up what you have just said, mr president. it may well be that, after the standing committee has adopted my report by a two-thirds majority, we shall have to expect a similar result tomorrow and in that respect the pressure will be a little bit off. the decision of 15 september setting up the standing committee gave the committee the task of developing a negotiating position on the political challenges and budgetary resources of the enlarged european union. after seven months of work, we are presenting to you today our proposal for a negotiating position of the european parliament. the fact that this result was achieved in the standing committee by a two-thirds majority was only possible because of very close and trusting cooperation, despite the contradictions that may still exist. i would therefore like to begin by thanking you, mr president, as chairman of the temporary committee, and in particular the coordinators and the particularly dedicated colleagues responsible for the opinions of the committees of inquiry, for the months of good cooperation. i would also like to thank in particular the staff of the secretariat, who have all done a fantastic job for all of us. (applause from the centre) with this report we can claim that, with 22 working documents we have discussed, with discussions with 17 consultative committees and - i attach great importance to this - also with consultations with delegations of the national parliaments we have carried out, we are the institution which has analysed and evaluated the commission's proposals most carefully and most intensively in terms of content. the result we are presenting to you today is therefore a viable and coherent overall solution. without parliament's consent there will be no financial perspective. we want a solution, but not at any price. we are following the commission's proposals in part where we think they are right, particularly in the lisbon strategy for more growth and employment. we cut where it makes sense without jeopardising the integration process. we are setting our own political priorities and we do not want to discuss the figures, but we must improve the budgetary framework conditions in the sense of simplifying the programmes. we have tried to find a way out of the tension between added value and subsidiarity, in which we are always at the same time also bound by budgetary discipline. we have also advocated a parallel between the duration of the financial perspective on the one hand and the term of office of the european parliament and the commission on the other hand, in the sense of democratic legitimacy. we want to see a compulsory simplification of the programmes, a reform of the budgetary system, and we insist that the new legislation on multiannual programmes should respect parliament's rights in every single point - for example in the field of foreign policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we put more emphasis on research and development and lifelong learning, then that is what the citizens expect from us. if we say that we are on the same page on cohesion policy with full knowledge of the current debate in the council and at the same time we have to admit that in the current debates in the council on citizenship of the union protection of citizens at home, protection of external borders and on the question of the eu as a global partner, we are clearly faced with a chronic underfunding of forward-looking policies, then this will be one of the difficult negotiations we will have to have with the council. in view of this difficult debate and the experience of agenda 2000, a new instrument for reserves and flexibilities based on existing agreements is an essential issue for us in the forthcoming negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i would ask you all to vote in favour of this report tomorrow as recommended by the standing committee. this strengthens our bargaining position. we are also giving the commission more creative possibilities in a difficult process of european integration. the financial perspective should be an important part of the strategy for a europe closer to the citizen and more forward-looking. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our environment, our natural resources are a scarce commodity, and we want to pass this scarce commodity on to our children, as safely and as widely as possible. our budget, our financial resources are also a scarce commodity. we must therefore strive to achieve our environmental objectives as effectively and efficiently as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thank you for that, dear reimer! these include not only the fact that european environmental policy has proved to be an effective instrument for preserving or even improving the environment, health and quality of life. this is our preservation part. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently launched a new programme to promote the environment. and that's our innovative part that can't be underestimated. i therefore hope very much that all colleagues will join us in the strategic path now and in the future. (the president cut the speaker off)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. the commission is not the committee on regional development has supported the commission's financial approach by a large majority. the european cohesion and regional policy is, in my view, by far the most successful and visible policy of the european union to its citizens. in view of the growing distance between citizens and european politics, we should concentrate on continuing this successful policy in the seven-year multiannual programmes and with appropriate financial support. i very much welcome the approach of the rapporteur, mr böge, to set the ceiling for cohesion policy at 0.41% of gnp, as well as the 4% ceiling. support is also provided for the specific problem of the regions affected by the statistical effect and the border regions. of course, it's clear to everyone in this house that we're working with taxpayer funds. the committee on regional development therefore expressly supports the consistent application of the n+2 rule and advocates its inclusion in the cohesion fund. european taxpayers' money must be spent efficiently and should not be sitting idle. however, the positive results of the application of the n+2 scheme should also be taken into account by the council. i would also like to say to all those who are calling for more money: the burden on some member states is enormous. we must also set reasonable limits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, for the courage he has shown in setting clear priorities in his draft report. it has given a clear priority to education and training. education and training are key factors for growth, social inclusion and competitiveness. and he did not stop at words, but for the large educational programmes erasmus and leonardo, for the youth exchanges in total, he put almost a billion more into this draft budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are sorry to see that the soul of europe is so often invoked. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the commission is prepared to take action in this area. i would appeal to the council, which has received a clear signal from the citizens in the referendums, to set the right priorities here, to follow the proposal of parliament and its rapporteur and to take seriously the keyword 'citizen participation' in the european budget, alongside education and culture. before the referenda, 72% of citizens said they were not informed or not sufficiently informed. the council must therefore draw conclusions with regard to the financial situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for his very ambitious work which is being discussed here today, even though i cannot agree with the report, although it contains many good individual measures. my group has tabled a separate motion for a resolution because we wanted to set a different political course for the period 2007-13. the reason why i am opposed to the böge report is primarily that the european union faces enormous challenges in the next financial perspective, but it will not meet them. the social, economic and environmental needs, in particular the requirements of regional cohesion, the fight against high unemployment, poverty and income inequality, must be considered in a macroeconomic framework. this is not reflected in the present report. we consider the ceilings proposed by the commission to be too low for the budget in general. the plan to give the european union more and more powers and at the same time not to provide it with the necessary financial resources to implement them is simply not feasible. the emphasis on competitiveness, security and defence at the expense of cohesion, the social and environmental dimension and cooperation with developing countries is unacceptable in our view. this financial perspective reflects the attempt to implement the lisbon strategy, which we had already opposed in its present form when we debated it. the commission's proposals are not intended to be a guide to the future of the community. this means that more funding is needed for innovation, social and education in particular. a strong european regional policy cannot be achieved with a reduced contribution of 0.41% of european gross domestic product. i hope that the council will now take a decision in the short term, otherwise it is already foreseeable that there will be no proper allocation of new funding at the beginning of 2007, which would be politically irresponsible. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to thank mr böge for the quality of his work in the committee. we have heard from many quarters that the balanced work has been praised. the problem, from our point of view and from my point of view, is that some areas are not sufficiently emphasized. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. what are we really doing for the citizens of europe, and what can they do for europe? i am deeply convinced that, even after the two failed referendums, we must politically ask ourselves how we can better reach the citizens of europe. i believe that with the education programmes, even if there has been an increase here, we are not reaching the point that we need to reach in the context of the lisbon strategy. we must do everything in the next few years to ensure that every pupil, every student, every student in europe can study abroad. these people will also have a very different emotional relationship with europe, its diversity and its possibilities, and this is where you build up the convinced europeans from below. we need networks like this. this is the case with cultural policy. we are so proud that the wall is gone and that we are the continent of cultural diversity. the budgetary approach is still below what we spend on tobacco subsidies. we need a clear offensive here so that the urban partnerships can flourish, so that the artists can meet and the people can really experience the cultural wealth of europe. the approaches proposed in the boogey report are therefore not sufficient. let us all be courageous and try to reach people not just rationally but emotionally!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur, mr böge, has done a good job. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. rural development is also in danger of becoming one. the council has decided to set the financial framework for the first pillar until 2013, but we have too few funds to finance romania and bulgaria. the report therefore proposes the introduction of cofinancing in the first pillar. we in our group would like to support this co-financing, but with the aim of achieving higher funding in the area of the second pillar. the natura 2000 funds must be used. the second pillar of rural development must have equal funding, including 75% from the european union, and ensure that rural areas are able to develop economically in a sound manner. this is not a financial mercy, but we will only have good economic development in general if the rural areas are not left behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what is the next financial framework? it is simply and profoundly about the tasks we have to accomplish at european level. if the commission makes its proposal: we are doing what we have been doing and there is something new, then it has made it too easy. what we have to commend our rapporteur for is that he has gone into detail, looking at the tasks we as the eu have to tackle in the 21st century - including the budget - where we need more money - in foreign and security policy - and where the commission has proposed too much and we can take it back. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but a european union which defines itself only by redistributing as much money as possible is not my european union. we have other tasks to accomplish together. if on the one hand we ask the member states to restructure their budgets in order to comply with the stability and growth pact, on the other hand we cannot go around europe with a full-blown horn. we must face this challenge together. if i hear this: 70 cents for culture cannot be too much, if you add the expenditure on the millennium development goals and other objectives, dear mrs trüpel, you do this as a green , you get payments of 1.19%. this is the green proposal, commitments of 1.29%. but then, please, stand up to the citizens and say: at national level we have no more money, but in europe we spend more. this isn't gonna work anymore! if we want to be credible, we must concentrate on the political tasks - that is the answer to the referenda - but also on the budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the success of the european union is the success of community, cooperation and the common interest in further development. this is precisely what we are facing. we must think about how we are going to tackle the next few years and the public is watching closely. how credible are we with what we're doing? we know that we have tasks ahead of us which require courage and an offensive approach, where we must make it clear that this european union is an economic community which is interested in success. we must therefore invest in the future, i.e. strengthen research, improve education and training. but it also means that, in addition to this economic community, we must be careful, in the interests of economic success, not to leave people and regions on the sidelines! we must therefore also help those who may have encountered difficulties in the course of this development or who have already lived in difficult structures in the past. that's what we're looking at here. we are prepared to support this report by mr reimer böge because it is precisely the aim of this report to set the right guidelines and to provide the necessary resources. but the citizen is also concerned about a parliamentarian - and we are a parliament - and he is concerned about the expenditure that is necessary, but also about the revenue side, that is, where does the money come from? the citizens are the ones who have to provide the means. so it must be acceptable at european level to ask whether the shouldering of these responsibilities is properly distributed. the british rebate is clearly no longer justified by anything. we must go all together and show the european citizens in all countries that we are prepared to provide the necessary resources. but we are also prepared and able to ensure that the burdens that come with it are shared fairly and in solidarity. solidarity does not mean merely sharing the resources; solidarity also means taking care not to overburden individuals while others are just standing on the sidelines and saying: 'look how you're coping with this. we want to develop europe in a positive way together!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a regional politician, i would like to focus on this aspect and emphasize once again that one of the great advances of this report is that 0.41% should be spent on this policy, which is visible even in the smallest village in europe and makes europe visible there. economic and social cohesion is the instrument of solidarity in the european union. the council, as we know, is currently proposing only 0.37% as a basis for negotiations. in any case, i also agree that we should limit it to 4% per member state and - contrary to the original proposal - maintain the n+2 system for the cohesion fund. i would like to emphasize once again that i do not support the proposal of our group because i do not think that we should limit ad hoc to five years. this is unacceptable from the point of view of regional policy in this difficult situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the second largest item in the financial perspective is expenditure on economic and social cohesion. as a regional politician, i therefore share the rapporteur's view, whom i would like to congratulate on this excellent report, that the existence of a strong and well-funded european regional policy is an essential precondition for the union to cope with the enlargements that have taken place and those that will follow, and to reduce regional imbalances. on the other hand, the allocation of eu structural policy funds must also be designed in such a way that in future it will be possible to provide sufficient support for regions whose development is lagging behind and which have particular socioeconomic problems, also in the old eu member states. the commission proposal is, of course, the most appropriate response to the eu's regional policy objectives for the next planning period, which are to reduce disparities between regions. but between that and the unacceptable demand of the six net contributors, the boogee proposal is a compromise which is still acceptable to us. the budgetary cuts must not be made unilaterally at the expense of regional policy. the commission's proposals for the distribution of cohesion funds between the various objectives in the draft regulations are acceptable only within the overall budget of 1.14%. in the case of cuts under the böge report or under the council regulation, the resources must be concentrated more on solving the problems of the most eligible regions. linear cuts, i.e. cuts while maintaining distribution relations, should be rejected, as this would lead to unilateral burdens on the regions of the 'convergence' objective in the old eu member states.
president of the council. madam president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, you have had a rich, constructive, but sometimes contradictory debate on an excellent report which will certainly help us to find a compromise. but as your debate has shown - and it has not been without contradictions - the presidency has to deal with these contradictions, which are sometimes even more important when they are presented by the heads of government or by the ministers of the various governments. from these contradictions, we must try to put all these elements into the equation to finally solve this one and reach a compromise. then you understand that this is not a particularly easy task. the task of your rapporteur has not been entirely easy either. i note that there are some points where it is said that action must be taken on the british rebate. the presidency fully agrees; it has made proposals to that effect. others say the opposite, and put agricultural issues on the balance sheet. does this mean that the agricultural policy in the union must be reduced, with all the consequences that this entails? is desertification of the european countryside desirable? it is a concrete and specific question. we need answers. i think that in any case europe needs priorities and it needs to know more clearly where it wants to go. the presidency, or rather luxembourg, could have signed the commission's proposals with both hands. but she has problems with these proposals as they are formulated. that said, i certainly do not deny that they constitute a very solid basis for preparing the future of europe. unfortunately, on the basis of these proposals alone, we are not going to reach a compromise next week. we must therefore seek a compromise, we must see how and to what extent the proposed figures can be reduced without depriving the community budget of its impact, influence and capacity to give political direction in the future. some of the speakers said that we cut 40 percent here, 30 percent there. i do not think that the commission is going to be able to do that. in some of them this growth may be insufficient, but in others it is quite significant and takes account of the priorities to which you, the members of parliament, attach particular importance. i wonder what we would end up with if there was no deal, if we stayed in some kind of status quo? i have been informed that we would probably end up with a budget or financial perspective of some 835 billion euros from 2006. the presidency proposes more. she 's more ambitious . it may not be sufficiently so, but it is as much so as the member states, or at least as many of them agree to be. i agree with the idea that europe must find new momentum. we must first of all combat demagogy, those who say that european money is being wasted too much. i believe that we must not tolerate these statements, which are harmful not only to the efficiency of europe but also, in the end, to our whole project. i don't think these debates should take place; they must be thwarted. europe needs solidarity, and we must do so. i agree with the idea that it needs more solidarity. the europe of the twenty-five, the europe of the twenty-seven, but also the europe of the fifteen. but we must find the right balance in this approach of solidarity, and that is what we have tried to do. we have to distinguish between rich regions, poor regions in rich countries, poor regions in poor countries, because it's not exactly the same. i think it is therefore important to find the right balance which will enable everyone to find himself in it. europe also needs to be more efficient in its spending. that's the message we need to get across. perhaps we need to define better the added value of european policies, work even more on the quality of community spending, concentrate our spending more, ensure better coordination between community spending, european spending and national spending. this will certainly enable lisbon to move forward. i honestly ask the following question: in the case of, for example, life-long learning, is it absolutely necessary to send funds through brussels to support projects in our member states? would it not be better to provide a framework, to set rules and to cooperate more closely in policy-making? we may have to be selective in focusing our resources where they can really produce the most impact. we all agree that more investment is needed in research. we also know that the community budget cannot achieve the objectives we have set out on its own. we need to coordinate community spending, national spending and interventions, private financing better. i think that perhaps this is an area where the americans can set an example, if we look at how they manage to better plan their spending, not only quantitatively, but perhaps also qualitatively. i cannot promise you that the presidency will reach a compromise. i cannot guarantee that this compromise will be as ambitious as you would like. but i can tell you one thing: if we can't come to a compromise, then the situation can't get any worse. it will be worse in the sense that we will not be able to define programmes. so all europe, all those who expect something from europe, all those who expect money to finance programmes to strengthen competitiveness and cohesion, all will be left a little hungry, and that is not going to improve the image of europe at a time when it precisely needs to be improved and strengthened in the eyes of our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i listened with great interest to your remarks and comments this afternoon. i am struck by the similarity of your priorities with those of the commission, in particular the revival of economic growth, the creation of jobs, solidarity with the poorest, those who most need a truly solidarity-based approach, and also the respect of the commitments made, that is to say, to bring our commitments, and our finances, into line with our political priorities. you have shown in this debate the usefulness of the european budget. you have shown that very often spending at european level is a source of national economy and that there is value added to such spending. spending at european level very often makes it possible to carry out projects that would not otherwise be possible. on these two points, the priorities and the usefulness of the budgetary instrument for our europe, for the ambition of europe and for solidarity in europe, there is therefore a great convergence of views between the commission and the european parliament. we have now reached - as we all know - a crucial moment and i think the spirit of today's debate could be summed up by saying that we - at least the majority of us, i believe - really want an agreement, and we want a good agreement. we want an ambitious agreement, an ambition for europe, a europe which is not a cheap europe, and at the same time we want a europe of solidarity. that is the conclusion i draw from this debate. but to reach such an agreement we must be prepared to make compromises and i would like to address the presidency on this. i know that the presidency is making an extraordinary effort. i've been saying that all along. i am in constant contact with the president of the council, my friend jean-claude juncker, and i think we should express our gratitude to him and to the luxembourg government and to the luxembourg diplomats. it is true that the presidency works mainly with the member states, but i have taken note of what the minister has just said. he said that he would personally very much endorse the commission's original proposal. i think the same about the böge report, which i hope will be voted on tomorrow. make your resolution! what i am asking the presidency now is to introduce into this crucial phase of the negotiations the message which will be delivered by parliament tomorrow. it is true that there are contradictions and different views in this house, but i believe that our vote tomorrow will still show the will of parliament. as we all agreed during the negotiations, it is not limited to the member states alone, although their role is decisive. it is conducted between the council, parliament and the commission. so what we are asking the presidency now - while congratulating it on its determination and telling it that we want a compromise and that we are here to help it find that compromise - is to find a compromise which is closer to what parliament will vote on tomorrow, i hope; the commission's proposal is closer to the proposal of the commission than to that of some of the member states, although we recognize that they have real difficulties and that they should not be underestimated. that's my calling. that is my appeal to the presidency. this is also my appeal to all members of parliament so that we can look at this final phase - which i hope will be the final phase - of the negotiations in a spirit of compromise and so that the message from the next european council will once again be a positive one. once again, europe will surprise its adversaries by showing that in difficult situations, and especially in difficult situations, we are capable not only of finding a solution, but of finding a credible solution, that is to say, a solution which brings our ambitions closer to the instruments we are giving the european institutions to achieve these ambitions. (applause) i would like to thank
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. two brief remarks to conclude this debate: i give the presidency of the council a full mandate. it will not work, either in the council or in parliament, if one feels responsible for special interests and the other for compromises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but mr schmit, there is one thing i do not accept either, and that is the famous chaos theory, which says that if there is no communication, everything falls off the grid. the point is that after the vote tomorrow in the plenary, we must use the time until the european council to speak, to negotiate. i would like to ask the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council's position is not changed. the council has to define its position and parliament has to give its consent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon.
the next item is question time (b6-0246/2005) and we shall be dealing with a number of questions to the commission. part two
question no 31 by mr alfredo antoniozzi (h-0384/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: promotion of the italian language in europe (eurydice 2005 report) and definition of the language regime within the community institutions the debate on the use of the eu's official languages within the institutions has not yet received a response to the proposal to draw up a new regime for the use of the official languages and a definition of working languages and their use. the subject of the debate should now be defined and the linguistic and cultural heritage of the eu member states should be better used. could the commission state how it intends to deal with the issue of official languages within the institutions and whether it intends to designate working languages (council regulation no 1/58 (article 1) refers only to official languages) and thus avoid leaving the decision on the use of one language instead of another to the discretion of senior officials (answer to question h-0159/05 - written reply of 8.3.2005) and thus avoid unfair discrimination? what proposals could the commission make to preserve italy's linguistic heritage following the publication of the eurydice report 'key figures for language teaching in europe', considering that eurydice is supported by the ec and that one should ask what the ec will propose based on the very negative data on the teaching of italian in europe contained in the report?
member of the commission. in reply to the honourable member, the commission has already pointed out several times, and in particular in its reply to oral question h-0159/05 by the honourable member, that, in accordance with council regulation no 1/58 (article 1) –the first one in the history of eu secondary legislation – all official languages are at the same time working languages and can therefore be used on the same legal terms and on the same basis within the institutions. so it is not correct to say that the current working languages within the european institutions have been reduced to three, namely english, french and german. as for internal procedures within the commission, the documents submitted to it are drafted in these three languages at least. it is a rule that has purely internal effects and aims to guarantee that the commission itself is in a position to understand documents of general interest. the commission has found no evidence of any discrimination against other working languages as a result of this rule, which was drawn up on the instructions of both the current and former presidents of the commission. moreover, it is normal that, for operational reasons, certain languages are used more than others by commission staff in their daily business. no senior management official has the power or the right to require his staff to use one working language rather than another. but sometimes it is the linguistic preferences or knowledge of commissioners themselves which may require the use of a particular language. it goes without saying that it is mandatory to maintain internal communication among the commission departments and inside the other institutions. all these practices are followed with due respect for the equality of languages as official and working languages. the commission reiterates that it has no intention whatsoever of introducing a specific system involving the privileged use of one or several languages in its services. on the other hand, if the work of its services goes beyond internal business and involves contacts with outsiders, the commission is committed to making use of as many official languages as possible, taking into account the limitations on available translation resources under the guidelines set out in its document 638/6. secondly, the commission actively promotes multilingualism within the european union, as indicated in its communication 'promoting language learning and linguistic diversity: an action plan 2004-2006'. under the socrates and leonardo da vinci programmes, specific actions and other actions for student and teacher exchanges can be used for the promotion of italian, as for all other community languages. thus, the lingua action under the socrates programme financed eight different projects to promote the italian language between 2000 and 2004.
member of the commission. in procedural terms, we use only some languages in the college, but at the official and working levels, all languages are equal. one of the changes or important phenomena, which one can see in the press conferences on wednesdays, is that there is the possibility of using all the official languages. with this attitude and with the promotion of language learning, with multilingualism as a policy, not just an administrative part of our daily work, we will achieve significant progress and improvement, within the limits of our possibilities. the situation for languages from the time of enlargement shows that the union is functioning – it did not collapse. all languages can be used by communicators within the union. speaking as commissioner for education, i must say that all our mobility programmes, our activities in the field of education, culture and vocational training strongly promote a language component. i am sure that, with that awareness and positive philosophy or policy we are on the right track.
member of the commission. i would like to support that idea. next month we want to introduce the communication on the new language competence indicator, which is now an important part of the growing question of competence and recognition of qualifications. we have agreed with member states to promote language learning as early as possible. in a broader context, the 1 + 2 formula is no longer a luxury, but a necessity for the younger generation and for all citizens, who need to learn not only their mother tongue, but also two other european languages, one of which should preferably be that of a neighbour. that is the policy and basic philosophy supported by the commission and, if this policy is promoted properly in member states, multilingualism and language competence will increase markedly in the future european union. i fully share the interest and support of the distinguished member of parliament.
question no 32 by mr yiannakis matsis (h-0367/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: participation of cyprus in the 'partnership for peace' and association with nato to what extent would the commission support the participation of the republic of cyprus in the 'partnership for peace' and its association with nato in order to pursue mutual interests in the context of the common european defence and foreign policy?
member of the commission. thank you very much for continuing this question. i'm convinced that it has a history and that it's evolving rather positively. if we look back over the last decade, the development is encouraging. the european commission does not have direct powers under the second pillar of the common foreign and security policy, but it supports the efforts of the member states not only on a common policy but also on a certain common approach towards other organisations, especially in the security agenda. i am therefore convinced that this subject in the hands of the member states, supported by the union as a whole and the commission, can gradually bring about positive responses. but at the moment we cannot do more than the commission is trying to do.
question no 33 by mr alexander nuno alvaro (h-0414/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: biometric data in visawhat is the timeframe for introducing biometric features in visa, taking into account the development and implementation of the biometric system? how is the member states supported in developing and implementing their own system to ensure interoperability with the planned central system? how far have member states progressed with the introduction of biometric features in view of the new system? does the commission consider that the relevant data protection aspects are met?
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, as i have already said, we will certainly also take account of experiments which have already been successfully carried out, particularly in the airport systems, in some european countries. i cannot tell you whether that particular system is considered, as is often said, exportable, that is, reproducible on a large scale for a european union of 25. i can assure you that this system will also be taken into account in the technical pilot experiments that will be carried out.
i have to say, madam president, thank you, commissioner. it is also a bit of curiosity because i am aware of the efforts of the german minister of the interior to push the project forward as quickly as possible. the united states has definitively ruled out any extension of the deadline?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, if you are referring to the revision of the so-called passenger name record (pnr), we have postponed the technical meeting between european and us officials scheduled for july by a few weeks. we will of course keep parliament informed of developments, as i promised. part two
question no 34 by mairead mcguinness (h-0386/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: charges for public service broadcasting in view of the importance of the media in today's world and the view that public service broadcasting is worth protecting, can the commission make a statement on how it sees the future of public service broadcasting and on the need for a clear and unambiguous interpretation of the question of how the charges are used by broadcasters and whether the use of public service broadcasting charges is uniform in the member states?
member of the commission. madam president, the importance of the public service of broadcasting and the competence of the member states to define, organise and provide for the mechanisms for financing this public service are guaranteed by article 86 (2) of the treaty and by the amsterdam protocol. as indicated in the 2001 commission communication on state aid, the role of private operators should not be overlooked as they contribute to pluralism, enrich the political and cultural debate and broaden the choice of programmes. the dual system which characterizes the european audiovisual landscape and which has beneficial effects on the media as a whole is thus very clearly recognised. as far as the public sector is concerned, it is now up to the member states to organise the financing of this sector. this financing may be entirely borne by public funds, in whatever form and, where appropriate, in the form of a fee, as envisaged by the honourable member. this financing may also be mixed and consist in part of revenues from the sale of advertising space. there is no objection to the choice of either of these formulae. however, the commission must ensure that the treaty rules are respected, in particular those on state aid, as interpreted by the 2001 communication. public funding must be used only to fulfil public service missions and must not exceed what is necessary in this respect: this is the rule of proportionality. the public service missions must be clearly and precisely defined and there must be a separation of accounts when public sector operators engage in commercial activities: this is the rule of transparency. it is therefore not for the commission to lay down other rules which would limit the member states' scope for manoeuvre in this highly cultural area.
member of the commission. madam president, i have not yet read the letter from the irish authorities. i suppose that this is a normal request made by the commission in relation to state aid, which is quite acceptable, for the public audiovisual sector. such state aid must be notified and there must be an exchange of questions and answers between the commission and the member state concerned. in the light of the member state's replies, the commission shall examine whether the situation in the member state is in conformity with the treaty, the amsterdam protocol and the 2001 commission communication. if yes, the green light is given; if not, there is a discussion between the member state and the commission. this is a normal procedure that happens regularly. there are usually no problems and the member states get the go-ahead fairly quickly. in a few cases, problems arose, particularly with the german authorities. however, as regards the public broadcasting sector, exchanges of information between the member states and the commission are not difficult.
question no 35 by mr manolis mavrommatis (h-0420/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: media programmethe worrying trend of concentration of media in individual countries is leading to the formation of monopolies and the dominance of a few television stations and their production companies. the media programme also covered television broadcasters and their production companies (which are neither independent nor small or medium-sized enterprises). how does this initiative affect the principle underlying the media programme of supporting independent producers and small and medium-sized enterprises? will the commission examine the impact of the programme on small and mediumsized enterprises, especially the independent companies supplying television productions, and the practical benefits of providing only a limited budget to finance television projects?
member of the commission. the honourable member raises the question of independent producers. it is clear that in the context of audiovisual production we need these independent producers. they are the ones who create the most important audiovisual works, and they do so in the cultural and linguistic diversity which is the real wealth of our continent. that is why the conditions for access to media grants are very clear: you must be an independent producer. it is not possible to receive a grant if you are a sub-organism of, for example, a television station. i would like to say that media+ sets out very clear obligations, to return to the producers. after a maximum of seven years, all systems will be reviewed to further support independent producers. so, in the context of the media review, we will be strengthening the measures to support this very important dimension of the european cultural industry.
question no 36 by mrs westlund (h-0436/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: public services and new directive on television broadcasting the commission is expected to present a proposal for a new directive on television broadcasting activities at the end of 2005, which is likely to include public service broadcasting. public service broadcasting is of great importance to the democratic, social and cultural interests of society. in order to enable public service media services to respond to these needs, community legislation needs to clarify that they can make use of any new technology and media form, such as internet and wap services, without being contrary to the rules of the internal market. does the commission share this view with regard to the right of public service providers to make use of any new technology and media? does the commission intend to introduce legislation with the new directive which only concerns audiovisual content and not media forms or technologies?
member of the commission. the commission presented last week its communication 'i 2010: an information society for growth and jobs'. the commission states that it will propose by the end of 2005 a revision of the 'television without frontiers' directive to modernise the regulation on audiovisual services, and that is what the honourable member is talking about. the minimum coordination provisions in this text strengthen the competitiveness of the european audiovisual industry. however, the directive does not contain any specific rights or obligations for public service broadcasters and there is no intention, at least for the time being, to introduce measures in the context of the review which would relate to the use of communication techniques and means by public service broadcasters. as in the case of the question to which i have already answered, i would like to recall that it is very important that member states have the responsibility to define the purpose of their public services and to determine how they are to be remunerated in order to be able to fulfil their mission, this area continuing to fall under the principle of subsidiarity in accordance with the 2001 commission communication on state aid and the rules of the treaty, including the amsterdam protocol. but in this communication we also say - and this is an important element - that the public service can include services which are not programmes in the traditional sense of the term: for example, online information services, in so far, of course, as they are intended to satisfy the same democratic, social and cultural needs as sui generis programmes.
member of the commission. madam president, i can only repeat what i have already said: the commission is the guardian of the treaties. it therefore relies on the articles of the treaties and the amsterdam protocol to allow exceptions in respect of state aid to public service broadcasting. it is therefore up to the states to define, first, the object and obligations of their public services and, secondly, how these obligations are remunerated by fees or advertising. the commission is merely checking whether what has been decided by the member states is being implemented in practice. so my colleague monti and i published in 2001 - in order to eliminate all questions that could arise about the interpretation of these articles of the treaty and the amsterdam protocol - a communication, which the european parliament is well aware of, which specifies all these rules: i can therefore reassure the honourable member, because both the commission and parliament are committed to the dual system and public broadcasters are absolutely protected, both by the treaties and by the rules that follow from them.
question no 37 by mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0359/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: measures to implement the european youth pact in the conclusions of the luxembourg presidency (22 and 23 march 2005) and in annex i to these conclusions, reference is made to the european youth pact, which theoretically includes measures in three areas. the commission is asked when it will submit concrete proposals and carry out a preliminary evaluation of these proposals so that the objectives of the youth pact can be achieved, taking into account the need for solidarity between the generations.
member of the commission. that is a very reasonable supplementary question. i had a very special occasion, the day immediately after the approval date. the following day we held the first online press conference with youth in brussels, but also in member states. it was well organised and it is also a contribution to better communication, and to the engagement of young people as we call for future eu policies. part of the answer on support is that we would like to use many opportunities in different strands or areas of eu policies – in social policy or strategy, in rural development, in research and of course in education programmes and training and mobility. there is a list of programmes which are connected and there should be an even more coherent way of supporting action vis-à-vis youth, with youth, and for youth. we also have a special programme for youth and i hope it will be further strengthened for the next seven years. again it is about the financial perspective. so the most important thing, i would say, is the financially unmeasurable part, which means a more coherent, more supported approach towards youth as a part of lisbon, as a part of integrated guidelines in all the different areas, supported also by financial resources. if the attitude of parliament is the same in this direction - and i would also like to welcome the last report by mr böge, which will be voted on tomorrow, the report on the financial perspective - that is a signal in the right direction as regards your question, mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou.
question no 38 by mr bernd posselt (h-0373/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: crossborder cultural promotionwhat role does the commission's promotion of cultural activities play in crossborder cooperation, for example between bavaria and the czech republic or austria and slovakia? what priorities does the commission envisage for the preservation of the common cultural heritage in border regions?
member of the commission. article 151 of the european community treaty, which is the base for our cultural cooperation, states that the community should encourage cultural cooperation between member states, including in the area of safeguarding cultural heritage and, if necessary, by supporting and supplementing their action in a certain number of areas. this objective is pursued by the culture 2000 framework programme in support of cultural cooperation in europe. implemented in order to encourage artistic and cultural cooperation in europe and to drive forward the creation of a common cultural area, the culture 2000 programme supports projects jointly produced and financed by at least three operators from at least three countries taking part in the programme. however, this programme is not specifically aimed at developing cross-border cultural cooperation. secondly, while the programme does not establish specific measures for the conservation of the common cultural heritage of border regions, it nevertheless contributes to disseminating know-how and promoting good practices in the field of conservation and preservation of this common cultural heritage. moreover, the european union also actively supports the conservation of europe’s cultural heritage through the structural funds and the sixth framework programme for research and technical development. thirdly, in the interreg iiia programmes, including those mentioned by mr posselt, culture is mainly promoted by supporting networks for creating or intensifying cross-border cultural contacts. under the entrepreneurship measures, many programmes also cover the promotion of cultural tourism. according to the guidance given in the commission communication of 28 april 2000, renovation and development of historic urban centres using a joint cross-border strategy, can also be promoted. this strategy, of course, excludes housing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out two things, firstly, because you mention the old towns. that was very interesting. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a satisfactory answer. there is a castle in the czech republic which is in complete disrepair and in which richard coudenhove-kalergi, the founder of the european idea, grew up. the aim is to establish a european meeting centre there. this could be an important project. secondly, i think that we should organize a major congress, a conference, a kind of fair or a contact point for all those who work across borders. there are many initiatives here that do not know about each other. you could do this in the capital of your country, for example, which is the only capital that borders on a border. i therefore propose that a meeting of these crossborder initiatives be held in pressburg, bratislava.
member of the commission. after enlargement, there are many more opportunities to show that this new enlarged community has much in common in terms of history and culture. in future, by promoting specific actions, cooperation on all levels and building networks, i am sure that central europe will be discovered anew after enlargement, because it has a much potential to offer people to feel like members of one broader european family. thank you for the idea and for all you are doing in this area of promoting cross-border cooperation and togetherness.
questions 39 to 44 will be answered in writing. question no 45 by mr staes (h-0360/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: budgetary lines for research and development in the field of renewable energyin an exchange of views on 25 january 2005, prof. sir chris llewellyn-smith, chairman of the advisory committee for the fusion programme, stated that with the help of a heavily promoted nuclear fusion programme, economically viable electricity could be produced in 40 years. the seventh framework programme allocates more money to nuclear energy (fission and fusion) than to renewable energy. the council nevertheless wants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15-20% by 2020 compared with 1990. the commission also forecasts that by 2020 the number of jobs in renewable energy worldwide will increase by several million. does the commission consider that it is desirable, in the context of climate and employment policy, to shift r & d budgetary resources from nuclear to renewable energy, and does it have concrete plans in this regard?
member of the commission. the reference to 16% was in the context that nuclear fusion currently contributes 16% of the european union’s energy supply. we believe that when we talk about the future, we have to talk about three major principles. sustainability and ensuring that we do all in our power to be environmentally friendly should be part of our philosophy. that philosophy underlines all our research programmes in the fields of environment, energy supplies and transport. we believe that should be our guiding principle.
question no 46 by mr bowis (h-0390/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: research into deafness and hearing impairmentis the commission aware of the need for more research into deafness and hearing impairment in children, both in terms of the number of people affected and the treatment and care available, and in terms of the benefits of diagnosis immediately after birth or in early childhood, and will the commission include this topic in the seventh framework programme?
- i'm not going to. firstly, i did not give you the floor. secondly, i said earlier that we are behind schedule. i therefore have no choice but to refer to question no 46 as a last point.
member of the commission. the problem will be given serious consideration. i agree fully with the honourable member that this is one of the problems that commands our full attention.
questions 47 to 88 will be answered in writing. for questions not dealt with, see the 'question time' annex. the question is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.45 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur on behalf of my group for this excellent report. the report rightly stresses the need for a european immigration policy, since this issue cannot be left to the occasional counterproductive self-interest of the member states within europe alone. the report also calls for closer cooperation between member states in the area of illegal migration and for the exchange of best practice models, including in the area of integration policy. the report also calls for the introduction of a european standardisation system for the use of data in the eu's telecommunications sector. but there are countries within the european union that have never had these one-off mass legalizations. this includes, for example, my country, the federal republic of germany. so you see, we have a lot of work to do within europe. member states should inform their neighbours and other eu countries in good time. that is what this report demands. we have an amendment to paragraph 29 which also expressly states that information on the introduction of restrictive measures in the area of immigration within the european union should also be exchanged and made public, not just measures such as mass legalisation, but also the opposite: if there are restrictive measures, they should be exchanged within europe. the report also expresses concern at the tendency of member states to set up upper-level reception facilities in non-eu countries. the example of libya has been mentioned often enough in the press, where minimum standards for refugees cannot be guaranteed. finally, in the area of legal migration, the report stresses that this is still the domain of nation states. however, these nation states are increasingly unable to solve the many problems on their own. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of asylum is respected. we have therefore tabled an amendment to paragraph 51 which calls for local voting rights and participation, for example. i am particularly pleased that we are also addressing the issue of honour killings explicitly in this report, because this issue needs to be addressed.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank mr bowis for his excellent report. the report is a further challenge to the widespread belief that europe is not concerned with the real concerns and needs of its citizens. the fear of losing one's job is undoubtedly one of the things that are driving people around. but this includes the concern that the best possible care may not always be available, and not just at home. anyone can have an accident, become ill, require medical attention and treatment anywhere in europe. it is not acceptable that we should have our own patient protection legislation in only two thirds of all member states. in my country, for example, patient rights still rely 90% on a scattered court system. they are not legally binding and clearly summarised in any one document. a eu-wide comparison of existing patient rights and minimum standards is overdue. everyone, whether he or she is sick in spain, latvia or poland, must have the same rights as in france, finland or the czech republic. this must apply, for example, to the right to comprehensive and informed advice, as well as to the right to documentation of treatment and the right to access medical records. we also need more transparency in the reimbursement of costs. although the ecj has clarified the reimbursement of costs incurred abroad, there are still inequalities of treatment within the scope of regulation 1408/71. we need to harmonize the existing legislation on reimbursement and we need a uniform legal framework for patient mobility. but we also need the internet health portal announced by the commission as soon as possible, where all the important information is made available to patients and their families as well as to professionals. this includes, for example, data on hospital and doctor specialisations. however, this also includes data on the evaluation of medical services and data on patient safety. if you wish, we need a european-wide ranking, as is already the case at national level. only those who are well informed can make an informed decision about where and how they want to be treated, and one in four europeans already uses the internet to obtain health information. finally, we must not limit our reference centres to the treatment of rare diseases. we also need them for all other diseases that require a special pooling of resources and expertise, such as cancer, epilepsy or multiple sclerosis. in a europe of patient mobility, we need more legal certainty, more transparency and even more quality. despite subsidiarity, we have a great opportunity here to do much more for all citizens, also from europe. let us work together on this in the spirit of this report by john bowis.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council which will begin its work on 16 june will have to deliberate on two crucial issues for the future development of the european union: the ratification process of the constitutional treaty and the finalisation of a political agreement on the financial perspective. after intense debate, the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe was rejected by the french and dutch citizens, and signed in rome on 29 october 2004. the reasons for these negative votes are many and contradictory. many of us have expressed our disappointment and regret at the outcome of these votes. but a democratic debate has taken place and we must, of course, fully respect the democratic choice of an undisputed majority of french and dutch voters. i cannot help but recall, mr president, the massive vote by the european parliament on 12 january 2005 in favour of the draft european constitution. this vote was motivated by great hope, by the conviction that the european union, after enlargement to ten new members, could strengthen its democratic foundations, make its functioning more efficient and transparent, anchor its future in the common values we hold dear and, finally, regain the full confidence of its citizens. ten countries ratified the draft constitution, one of which - spain - by referendum. we must respect their democratic decision here too. however, the votes in the netherlands and france, two of the founding countries, have nevertheless created a new situation which will have to be faced. through these polls, concerns were expressed, aspirations and expectations, but also disappointments. unfortunately, european unification no longer appears to be the mobilizing project which for decades allowed our continent to be rebuilt in peace and prosperity before being reconciled by means of enlargement. has hope changed sides? would europe only inspire concern and misunderstanding? will it concentrate on it all the social uneasiness that many of its citizens rightly feel in the face of the difficulties, in the face of unemployment that has lasted for too long? i don't think he is. the message that has been expressed by many french citizens and by many dutch citizens is twofold. there is certainly dissatisfaction with europe as it is and as it functions, but at the same time, for a very large proportion of those citizens who said no, there is also a still strong attachment to the european idea and its necessity, but an attachment to a europe that acts differently in a world that is indeed in the midst of transformation. the european council will have to listen to these messages, which are being expressed after a democratic debate which has surely been missing for too long. all those who justified their refusal by a hypothetical plan b must now realize that there is no easy way out of a situation which has become extremely complex. we must now note that declaration no 30 nevertheless foresaw the situation where, at the end of the ratification period, several countries would not have succeeded in completing this procedure. we must also take into account the fact that ten countries have successfully completed their ratification procedure while more than half of the member states have not yet taken a decision. it is not easy to deprive these peoples or parliaments of a democratic debate and the opportunity to express themselves. let us not forget that the draft constitution is the result of a comprehensive compromise, that it has its own coherence, that one element is difficult to do without the other. the european council will therefore have to undertake a collective and thorough analysis of the situation before clearly defining the next steps in the process. one thing seems certain: the european union must not slip into a kind of permanent uncertainty, stagnation or, worse, paralysis. our institutions are working, they continue to work. our decision-making capacity is complete, even if the provisions of the treaty of nice are clearly insufficient, given the political, economic and social challenges that the union and our member states must address even more urgently. citizens expect concrete action, and a better consideration of their concerns, whether in economic and social terms or in terms of their security. the world is wondering about the future of the union, which has long fascinated many peoples on all continents. the thinking in the european council must therefore be broadened. it cannot be limited to procedural matters, when the expectations are primarily political. political union must remain our objective, and the building of a genuine european democracy remains the only way to achieve it. (applause) i would like to thank it is in this context that the negotiations on the financial perspective take on a special dimension. failure, failure to reach a good compromise, would be a sign of dangerous deadlock for our own citizens and especially for the outside world. these financial perspectives may not reflect all the ambitions of each side, but they will nevertheless enable the union to act in the interests of competitiveness, employment, economic and social cohesion, better protection of the environment, internal security and a more active international role. on the other hand, to adopt them now despite our differences is a political boost that the union needs more urgently than ever. after the rich debate you had yesterday, the vote that your parliament will take on the resolution can send a signal of the first importance, a signal of encouragement. the presidency will do all it can to facilitate a compromise acceptable to all. mr president, in addition to these crucial questions, the european council will be dealing with other matters which are no less important for the citizens. the next step is to make the relaunch of the lisbon strategy a reality in the interests of growth and employment. to this end, in line with the new approach adopted in march, the european council will have to approve the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs 2005-08. thus, on the basis of the work of all the council configurations concerned, the implementation of macroeconomic and microeconomic policies and employment policies will be able to be articulated around 24 integrated guidelines. by the autumn, member states will have translated these guidelines into coherent national programmes for growth and jobs. it should not be a formality but an undertaking involving all the parties concerned, and in particular the parliamentary bodies and the social partners. i would also mention that, in line with what was decided in march, the european council will be asked to approve a declaration on the guiding principles of sustainable development. it should lead to the adoption of a renewed sustainable development strategy, if possible before the end of 2005. the european council will also have to consider some important aspects of the establishment of the area of freedom, security and justice. in this area, we must show that the union is able to respond effectively to the expectations of its citizens. the european citizens rightly expect the european union to adopt a more effective common approach to crossborder problems such as illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, the fight against organised crime and the fight against terrorism, which you discussed yesterday and which we consider to be very important. we adopted the hague programme last november, which sets out the priorities for the next five years for the establishment of a genuine area of freedom, security and justice. in this connection, the next european council will be dealing with the action plan which translates the objectives of the hague programme into concrete measures. in this connection, the presidency stresses the importance of effective and timely implementation by the member states of the various measures contained in the report. the european council will in particular take stock of the efforts made in the fight against terrorism. you have stressed the urgency of this, the need for a comprehensive approach that combines security and freedom. the european council should identify certain priority areas for action in the coming months, such as police and judicial cooperation, ongoing work on preventing the recruitment of terrorists, combating the financing of terrorism and strengthening civil protection capacities, in particular to counter any bioterrorist threat. finally, mr president, i should like to conclude by mentioning some important issues in the field of external relations. this includes the reform of the united nations, which will be the subject of the un summit in september. we consider it essential that this summit should achieve a balanced and ambitious outcome, which allows for the reform of the un in order to respond more effectively to the multidimensional threats and challenges identified in the un secretary-general's report. we'll talk about it, i think, especially this afternoon. other international issues to be discussed include the preparation of the international conference on iraq, to be held in brussels on 22 june, and to be co-organised by the european union and the united states. the aim will be to establish a new framework for the coordination of assistance efforts in favour of iraq. in this connection, it is appropriate to emphasize the primary, essential and fundamental role of the iraqi government in the transitional period and the reconstruction of that country. you see that across these different subjects, europe must go on. we must show that it retains its full capacity for decision and action. i believe that the debates you are about to have should be a spur in that direction. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council meeting on 16 and 17 december will have to face two fundamental challenges for the european union: to send our fellow citizens a message of convergence between the member states on the process of ratifying the constitutional treaty and to provide the union with a stable financial framework for the coming years. the unquestionable importance of these issues should not, however, make us forget other areas which will also be on the agenda, from the integrated guidelines for the implementation of the lisbon strategy to the sustainable development strategy. but there is one subject i would like to highlight in particular: development aid in the context of the millennium development goals. the commission's proposals are not only a means of achieving the objectives of the single act but also a means of ensuring that the community's external policies are in line with the objectives of the single act. in this year of 2005, already the year of development, europe must fully assume its responsibility to support those who need it most and play a leading role in the fight against poverty and hunger in the world. on the eve of the g8 summit, where africa will be a priority, and on the eve of the important united nations meeting scheduled for september, it is of crucial importance that the european council confirms the agreement already reached by the ministers of the member states on the basis of a commission proposal and clearly commits itself to the achievement of the millennium development goals. this is the signal we expect from a europe which wants and must remain united, not closed in on itself but truly open to the world. i do not want to miss this reference at the beginning of a speech in which the european question will naturally be the main one. but it's equally important in these difficult times not to forget that there are others who need our help. every day, some 25,000 human beings die of hunger or thirst. europe cannot continue to accept this situation. it is an essential challenge to our contemporary civilization to say enough, enough of this situation which should make the whole universal consciousness revolt. (applause) mr president, i do not intend to go over the details of yesterday's debate on the financial perspective. the temporary committee of parliament, under your chairmanship, mr president, achieved a remarkable synthesis. i have every confidence that this will be reflected in the vote later today. parliament will then have established a clear vision for the union and its financing for the coming years. between now and the european council meeting there will be a series of staging posts which, we hope, will lead us to a council position to match that of parliament and then to the adoption of the interinstitutional agreement. of course, the current political context has raised questions about the likelihood of agreement on the financial perspective. i should first of all make it clear that i am in full agreement with the council presidency that an agreement at european council level is not only desirable, but also possible. we shall do everything to achieve that. when faced with political problems, the worst reaction would be to do nothing and remain paralysed. we should rather show that the union remains a dynamic political force, strong enough to continue its work in the face of difficulties. i believe that, at a time when some would expect the union to be in disarray, an agreement on the financial perspective would show its determination to overcome problems and help generate renewed political impetus. as regards substance, i would like to reiterate that we need to retain the overall rationale and balance of the commission's initial proposals. however, this is a negotiation. we recognise that this means changes to the proposals and that these changes are inevitable. there is always a risk that, in order to reach agreement, we may be tempted to go down the road of undermining policy coherence in order to satisfy particular interests. i would hope that we can resist, or at least minimise, that temptation. the commission's proposals were a careful balance between tried and tested policies and the union's new policy proposals. we would be doing the union a disservice if we undermined that balance. the union's budget exists to deliver common, set political objectives. at the european council we will no doubt have detailed and sometimes difficult negotiations, but if we can keep in mind that we are talking about what the union really has to do, it is possible to reach an agreement which will allow the union to move forward effectively. i would like the commission and parliament to remain in close contact in the run-up to and during the last stage of negotiations so that together we can contribute to the best possible deal for the union. the luxembourg presidency has led discussions into their final phase. it has proposed a new negotiating box. next sunday we will have the final ministerial conclave; on the eve of the summit we will have the trialogue between the institutions. we must commend the presidency for its great efforts and determination in finding a deal. it is true that the proposal now on the table is closer to the minimalist approach favoured by some member states than to the position of parliament. as i indicated yesterday, i hope that the presidency will carefully consider the very balanced views expressed by parliament and take due account of them in the final round of negotiations. i hope an agreement will be reached that shows that europe is maintaining its ambition and solidarity. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the referendums in france and the netherlands represent for the european commission - and also, i am sure, for the majority of parliament - a source of concern, given that these results risk weakening the union and that these two countries have always been important protagonists of our common project. throughout its history, the union has faced other difficult situations, but the commitment and conviction of its leaders have enabled it to overcome them and to relaunch the european project. let me share with the house some reflections which have inspired me to draw parallels between the present situation and that of fifty years ago, when the project of the european defence community failed and european leaders, instead of putting an end to their ambitions for europe, found the best way of overcoming this problem. it is necessary at present to try to understand honestly the expression of the negative vote of two countries as important as france and the netherlands. it is very important that these concerns be expressed by a democratic vote following a very lively debate. for a democrat, this is a positive element in itself. we must all respect the expression of the will of the citizen, but we must honestly recognize that this debate has often been mixed up with national issues and that sometimes the arguments exchanged had little to do with the european constitution. in addition to certain purely national considerations, the fact is that popular consultations have become an opportunity to express fears, which must be taken seriously, particularly those of citizens faced with the european social model, decolonisations, the fact that europe is moving too fast and too far or is even sometimes assimilated to the threat of globalisation. even if it is admitted that the debates in the referendums were to some extent contaminated by other subjects, it must be honestly recognised that this vote reflects the expression of dissatisfaction with the union and the european project in these two countries. that is why the presidents of the european parliament and the european council and i myself, in berlin, stressed in our joint declaration after the french referendum that national and european political leaders must do more to express the true dimension of the problems and the nature of the solutions which only europe can provide, and that we must ask ourselves about the role of each one of us in contributing to a better understanding of this project, which cannot have its own legitimacy without being listened to by the citizens. the content of the debates and the results of the two referendums therefore require a serious reflection on our capacity - both that of the european institutions and that of the national institutions and authorities - to mobilise the european people's support and commitment. we must reconnect the european union with its citizens and its citizens with the union. it is imperative, and i shall have the opportunity to return to it in the coming weeks. but today, the most urgent question to which we must respond in the face of a situation which could put a stop to european construction is the following: how can we bring about a new political consensus and take advantage of this difficult moment to revive europe? there is a political difficulty, and we must solve it politically. we must not avoid facing reality head on. i would like to stress clearly from the house that ratification is first and foremost a matter for the member states. twenty-five governments have signed the constitutional treaty. it is up to them to decide when and how to ratify it and whether they wish to maintain the commitment they have made or to withdraw. ten member states have so far ratified the constitution, one of which, namely spain, by a very clear referendum. in two other member states, the referenda were rejected. however, other member states have not yet expressed their position and i believe that all the member states of the union have the right to express their position on an equal footing. nevertheless, what is essential to my eyes today is that the member states react together to the current situation and that we avoid unilateral, individual and dispersed actions. that is why i asked them to wait until the european council next week to decide their position. i note that the governments have largely shown restraint and, whereas position-taking has been deemed unavoidable for internal reasons, they have retained a sense of moderation and the possibility of a debate and a collective decision. the fate of the constitution is now in the hands of the member states. it is important that the heads of state and government analyse the current situation and send a clear message to all europeans. i am convinced that it is possible and desirable for this message to express the will to reach a new political consensus in europe. the analysis of the present situation reveals two possible solutions which are, i insist, at the extreme and which, in my opinion, should be avoided at all costs. the first false good solution would be to say that nothing has happened, that everything can continue as usual as if there had not been two negative votes in two such important countries. it would, in my opinion, be an autistic, irresponsible, arrogant attitude which does not respect the will expressed by the majority of the citizens of two countries, which we have a duty to listen to. another extreme false good solution would be to abandon the draft constitutional treaty at once. it would be to ignore the fact that ten member states have already ratified it and that the negative vote in two states, if it expresses a negative position with regard to the constitution, does not, however, represent support for an alternative project and also contains contradictions. so, if we avoid these two extreme solutions, we must look for another solution. and i think we must now begin to create the conditions for the establishment of a solution which will lead to the emergence of a new political consensus, because - i repeat - it is politically that we must find a solution. there is no administrative, bureaucratic and technocratic solution. we need a political debate in europe for a political solution to the future of our europe. without calling into question the draft constitutional treaty, europe must be advanced and paralysis avoided. this solution can only be the result of an in-depth analysis and frank debate. it must necessarily be drawn up in the spirit of compromise between the twenty-five member states meeting within the european council, with the full participation of the european commission as well and in close consultation with the european parliament, but also with national parliaments and companies. so, ladies and gentlemen, as we have always said, there is no plan b. there is no such thing. there never was. but we cannot speak of a plan for democracy and dialogue. a plan d to listen to people; the european parliament and the council have agreed to the following measures: this should enable us to arrive at a more consensual approach, particularly because it is more representative of the will of all our fellow citizens. in the face of the scepticism expressed by some of our citizens, we must show that the european union can, today more than ever, respond to their concerns and meet the many challenges of the millennium ahead. the results of the two referendums last week are certainly a serious problem, but this is not the first time that europe has had a problem and it will certainly not be the last. europe is more necessary than ever. that is why the commission continues and will continue to take important decisions which are of real benefit to all the citizens of europe, because the political life of the union continues, even after the referendums. we have strategic objectives to implement, which have also been supported by the european parliament and the european council. they respond to the concerns of citizens by focusing on prosperity, solidarity and security. all the european institutions must, at the moment, make all the more of a spirit of compromise and rally around the aspiration to go forward and achieve their objectives, particularly in the fight against unemployment and insecurity. in the days and weeks to come, we will have to manage together a complex situation. in this context, i believe that two dangerous pitfalls must be avoided: a first, which i call the blame game, and a second, which i call the deepening of negative ideological divisions. first of all, it is necessary at all costs to avoid engaging in a blame game, that is to say, to make unnecessary and dangerous accusations, aimed in particular at making european institutions - whether the commission, the european parliament or the council - the emissaries of the difficulties that arise, either at national level or in the face of global challenges. the european institutions are certainly not perfect. who could claim l'être! it is because we have recognised that there are certain problems that the commission, as soon as it took office six months ago, decided to prepare initiatives to achieve better communication and improve the quality of legislation, avoiding unnecessary legislation and unnecessary bureaucracy. that is why we have launched the initiative 'better lawmaking'. we are also engaged in a reflection on the transparency of the functioning of the institutions. we recognize, in fact, that we can all improve the relationship of trust and responsibility between citizens and the union, in particular by better respecting the principle of subsidiarity, which everyone talks about but which, very often, is not applied. more attention, ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to imput to brussels - what is customarily called brussels - unpopular decisions has already, in the past, caused immense damage, and it continues to do so. we must resist this temptation. the meetings of the representatives of the member states should not be described as battlefields with winners and losers. europe is made in compromise and by compromise, and it is the duty of the representatives of the national states above all to explain this and to argue in favour of europe instead of exploiting national egos in a negative way for our europe. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, let us be frank: if brussels is attacked six days a week, from monday to saturday, can we expect the citizens to support europe on sunday? it's hard, is it not? (applause from the centre) but there is a second trap. the second danger would be to remain stuck in ideological cleavages, even if we admit that there are different conceptions of europe. encouraging divisions around two political monotheisms, the monotheism of the market and the monotheism of the state, does not serve europe. neither the market nor the state can solve europe's problems. any attempt to impose on europe one of the two, a single european thought, is doomed to failure. what we need now is an intelligent synthesis between the market and the state which can help europe to be a winner and not a loser in the face of globalisation. we are not deluding ourselves: europe, by definition, is plural, and it is good that it remains plural. we have different ideological positions, particularly in the political struggle on the national level. to want to impose on europe, at the level of the european institutions, a single thought, a single ideological orientation, would be to forget that europe was made in pluralism, in difference, and, it must also be said, in the search for compromise and consensus. that is why i believe it is vital to turn this period of crisis into a period of opportunity and to take advantage of it to forge a new political consensus. the role of the commission as i see it is to foster this consensus and to avoid exacerbating the deepening of unnecessary and dangerous antagonisms. without this new political consensus, it will be more difficult to reach a compromise and find solutions. it is in this spirit and with this objective that i appeal to all european leaders, including those at national level. we must all be able to show a sense of responsibility and to rise to the challenge of the extremely difficult situation we are facing. i therefore call on all national authorities to make a serious effort not to give in to the national egoism which has done so much harm to europe and which continues to do so gravely. (applause) i call for a rallying around european values, why not say, around european culture, around our european spirit, so that together we can build a new political consensus, both dynamic and constructive, a consensus which will prevent europe from being the first victim of globalisation, but rather will do the opposite so that europe can win this battle of globalisation. i can assure you of the commission's full mobilisation and availability to contribute and of our willingness to work with all of you, with different political orientations, on the condition that you all understand and accept that europe is not the problem, but rather the solution to the problems facing citizens today. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the european people's party is very disappointed by the votes in france and the netherlands. but the greatest danger we face now is that we will fall into disorientation. the european union cannot solve all the problems, but without it we will not be able to tackle any of the major challenges, and that is why we say: the objective remains the same! (applause from the centre) france and the netherlands, two important countries, cannot take responsibility for 25 countries in the european union. secondly, the ten countries that have ratified the treaty represent 220 million people; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. thirdly, the 13 countries which have yet to ratify must have the right to express their views on the constitution. that's why we recommend that we think. no one has the quick fix today. we have to think. we must be reasonable. but we must equally combine prudence with determination, and this is probably the right solution. the heads of state and government must decide to enter a period of reflection and to suspend the referenda for a certain period. you have to think about it. there are a lot of reasons why we voted no in the netherlands and france. some of these reasons are identical, some are not. the unpopularity of the leadership, of the government, is perhaps an element. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. is it not sometimes true that less legislation in europe - which also concerns us as the european parliament - means more for all of us? then the question of enlargement: it is very crucial that people have the impression that a lot is happening too fast. we'll have to charge for that. our group says: first of all we must try - and then there will be a dispute about the substance - to concentrate on the essentials, to make europe strong where only europe can act, but also to apply the principle of subsidiarity more strongly. secondly, we must not extend this european union politically, culturally and geographically. this is the great concern expressed in the referenda. we must take this very seriously. we are very firm in our position: pacta sunt servanda. but the pacta sunt servanda applies not only to the european union but also to the states which wish to join the european union. it is also true of romania and bulgaria! mr president of the commission, i ask you and your commission to do so. when you write the progress report for romania and bulgaria - parliament has said yes for both countries, but there will be this progress report - please do not write any kind of flattery in this report, but describe the situation as it really is, openly and honestly. that's what we're expecting from you now. we shall then be able to draw the conclusions from this progress report. as for turkey, we expect - there will have to be a council decision - that turkey will also comply with the conditions laid down - the six laws in question. they must be ratified. the question of the european union's ability to host is also relevant. cyprus must also be clearly recognised, because how can you negotiate with someone you do not recognise? there's got to be an answer to that, too. the negotiations will be open to all. but we ask you to think about it, and i admit that there are differences of opinion on this matter, both in the group and in other groups. the goal may be membership. the goal may also be a privileged partnership. we must also speak openly and honestly about this, so as not to arouse false expectations. i wish you, mr president of the council, together with the commission - and i am very pleased that you both made these impressive speeches - success with the financial perspective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will then be able to restore confidence in the whole of the community. i wish the president of the council, the president of the commission and, of course, the president of parliament every success in this. this crisis must be an opportunity! the road goes on, maybe not quite as fast. we have understood the message, but europe remains our great commitment and our great goal! (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i'm confessing that i'm confused. i don't think i'm alone in this. i have rarely had such a difficult speech as the one i have to make here this morning, because as the spokesman for a group of over 200 members i have to try to reconcile the many feelings which still exist in my group in the face of the present situation. this is not easy, because the interpretations are varied. i would therefore like to add a few elements to what has already been said. i would like to stress one thing: no country can be dictated to by another country as to how it applies its domestic law, and that is a good thing. we are a union of sovereign states. the first country says we are freezing the ratification process, the second says we want to ratify it through parliamentary procedure or a referendum. we shall have to take that into account here. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the gulf. there is no golden rule in the european union. one of them scored, and now it's game over. this can't be happening. the 77 per cent of spaniards who said yes to this constitution are worth the same as the 55 per cent of frenchmen and women who said no. that's why the trial is going on. (applause from the centre) however, we must all - and i personally expressly agree - ask self-critical questions in interpreting the results. what we have seen in the referenda is not new. we have simply been blind to these developments for a very long time. each european election - the 2004 one, the 1999 one, the 1994 one and the 1989 one - has shown similar trends: that there has been an increasing turn away from the europe project by european citizens. we all refused to acknowledge that. i say to my own address: neither do i! the gap between governments, european institutions and citizens has become very clear. why the rift? in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, under jean monnet and helmut kohl, under de gasperi and mitterrand, people did not read the treaties either. the citizens of europe have not read the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community. but they had a trust in europe, a basic trust, a feeling. europe was the promise of peace and democracy! and peace and democracy were visibly established. that is to say, the claim and the reality were in agreement. this has led to confidence in governments and in european institutions. this promise of democracy and peace was complemented by a promise of prosperity, jobs and social security. the demand for more jobs, more social security, more protection is clearly not compatible with the results, because in many countries there are fewer jobs and less security. this gap is felt by the citizens. and we are not closing this gap because we do not sufficiently understand the european union as an opportunity and because we do not sufficiently communicate it as an opportunity. and there's a reason for that. in spite of all the self-criticism i have towards ourselves, towards myself, towards this house, towards the commission, there is one fact which cannot be overlooked and which perhaps needs to be discussed at last in the council on 16/17. we all know that what we are doing in brussels is not creating a direct relationship between us and the citizens, but an indirect one. in between are always national governments. the curse of evil has now reached full force in france and the netherlands. we cannot claim every success as a national government and blame every failure on those in brussels and expect people to celebrate brussels afterwards. you can't do that! (applause from the centre) i therefore say quite clearly: we have a duty to do in the european parliament. i share the view that we need to talk more about subsidiarity, about de-bureaucratisation, about greater efficiency and greater transparency. but the governments of the european union must also assume their responsibilities, and that means saying what you do and then doing what you say. it's that simple! i want to conclude by saying something about enlargement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre) the enlargement perspective must remain. that is the unanimous opinion of our group. but to make a promise of enlargement without the basis for this enlargement being created - the constitution should be that basis - is equally negligent. we cannot demand reforms and transformation processes from countries if we are not able to reform ourselves. (applause from the centre) that is why this union must do something. she needs to reform. that is why the integration of europe remains our objective. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is not just the european parliament that has been a great help to the people of europe. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commission, council presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. if mr bonde has spoken of equal representation, this parliament has decided by 80 to 90% to be in favour of the constitution, and 52% of the population have already said yes today through their parliaments and by referendum! this should not be forgotten here. it is clear, moreover, and this has been said by many speakers, that the reasons for the no are a diverse mixture and that the constitution as such has the least part to play. it is about the unpopularity of national politics, fear of globalisation, unemployment and also the message to us that you have overstated your domestic legislation and enlargement and much more. the european parliament has been a key player in the debate on the future of the european union. but it has been critically examined and we must take note of that. that is why it is extremely important to have a period of reflection in which we express our restraint, our moderation and make it clear through appropriate policies that we can win back the hearts of the people if we have such a dialogue. i believe that we need this time to suspend the ratification process, so that we do not take any further action on this false basis and then proceed in this way during the austrian presidency of the council at the appropriate time - not in an intergovernmental approach, but perhaps through a convention which examines the result of this reflection - i do not say the constitution. i also think it's extremely important that we also describe this offensively! the european union, according to the constitution, means nothing less than that citizens are involved, that citizens have rights, that more democracy is brought in, that national parliaments have more rights and that we have the capacity to act in this world to ensure our internal and external security. it also means that we can make clear that europe is not part of the problem of globalisation, but that europe is part of the answer to the problem of globalisation, and that for these reasons we can be able to win back the hearts of citizens for our policies. i would like to invite us to do so. i would like to make one further point. all this will bring about a paradigm shift in germany as well. because germany will once again be on the side of the small countries, which is important for the identity of this europe! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the constitution is not dead, as some say. the constitution lives, and it must live, because i have heard no plausible alternative. there is no plan b with any chance of success. that is what has been shown in this debate. we may need more time. that is why each country should decide for itself when to proceed to ratification. but i think it is completely wrong to call for a collective call to stop and suspend ratification. that's wrong! (applause from the centre) that is a decision that each country must make, knowing that we may need more time. the status of the country of origin has been seriously damaged by the "no" vote in france and the netherlands. and that's a good thing, because maybe now all countries are equal. i hope above all that the new countries will say a strong yes, because they must understand that part of the no was also directed against them. and i hope that in poland and the czech republic the people will say a clear yes to the european constitution, because this is their future and also their project for the future of europe. we also need to respond to people's concerns. people say, "we want more information. we want more participation. we want more clarity about the european project and we want more guidance on how to proceed. let's give people those opportunities. i believe that project d, which mr barroso, the president of the commission, has mentioned, is an approach. let us organize together a great european debate on the future of european unity, not isolated into 25 national debates, but a common debate. we need an instrument. some say a new convent, perhaps assisi, some instrument. and that signal of departure should come at the summit next week. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals. politically, the need to implement it is greater than ever. we must therefore ask ourselves how we can help the spirit of the treaty. in this respect, i wonder how wise it is to suspend the treaty now in the form of a series of public executions in the form of referendums. i think it would be far wiser if we took a moment to reflect and give the contract a chance. we need to use this break to clear up some issues. it is not the time for answers and recipes, but it is the time for questions. the question is: have we reached the limits of integration in europe? are we not on the way to the transfer of more and more responsibilities from the member states to the union, to be regulated there in a democratically somewhat questionable, in any case non-transparent and highly bureaucratic procedure, which no citizen can then understand? the commission should examine the number of draft directives it has and find even one that carefully separates what needs to be regulated in europe from what is wisely left to the regulatory competence of the member states and their regions. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens. these are the questions we must address. the second question is: have we reached the limits of enlargement? no one knows how far the enlarged union is to go. ukraine, belarus, morocco, israel - all have been discussed. this boundlessness produces uncertainty and uncertainty produces rejection. that is why the voters said no. in this respect, the candidate status for turkey was a historic mistake on the part of the union, which we have yet to think over very carefully.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we had some 620 amendments to consider and vote on during the vote in the committee on 10 may. on the basis of the 620 amendments in the standing committee, i had tabled 44 compromise amendments to the committee, 41 of which were accepted. i would ask you to take the following into account when voting: the vote will require three technical adjustments to make the text and the table of figures consistent. the figures are subject to the following technical adjustments: in paragraph 50 the seventh indent and the ninth indent. in the seventh indent, the amount of eur 4,5 billion would have to be replaced by the amount of eur 4,7 billion. the amount of eur 2,5 billion in the seventh indent would be replaced by the amount of eur 2,7 billion. in the ninth indent, the amount of eur 1,5 billion is replaced by the amount of eur 1,2 billion, also in the sense of the necessary technical adjustment. so far the necessary technical adjustments to have text and table coherent. i would also point out that there is an amendment no 6 to paragraph 31. i would ask that the second part of amendment no 6 be accepted as an addition to paragraph 31, if it is adopted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, on the basis of the discussions which have just taken place, i would ask my group to follow and support amendment no 19 by the socialist group, contrary to the voting list on paragraph 50, second indent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. agriculture is more than the production of food. the preservation of agriculture in all member states is therefore an important task for the european union. it strengthens economic and rural development and ensures a healthy natural and cultural landscape. financial support for farmers through the common agricultural policy must continue to be ensured. this must be reflected in the union's long-term financial planning. the forthcoming accession of bulgaria and romania in 2007 will aggravate the financial situation. the increase in the financial allocation for the agricultural policy to take account of this enlargement is not currently planned. the draft rather provides for a reduction or capping of the financial resources. accession would further reduce the funds available to farmers in the existing member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products. it is not the commission's job to make up the shortfall for its farmers. this does not mean renationalizing agricultural policy, but rather securing its financing in the long term. in order to maintain the benefits of the common agricultural policy, it may be necessary in the future for member states to contribute to the costs. it is unacceptable that the enlargement of the european union should be financed at the expense of farmers and that the agricultural budget should be used as a stone quarry for other policies.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the reform of the un.
president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i said this morning that one of the subjects on the agenda of the european council was the reform of the un, and in particular the summit in september this year, at which, we hope, this reform will be able to take place. the european union attaches great importance to this reform, as we have already had the opportunity to say and emphasize. we have repeatedly stated our support for the contents of the report by the secretary-general of the united nations, mr kofi annan, presented on 21 march, and for the preparatory reports on which it is based. these reports are in line with the general philosophy outlined in the european security strategy and offer promising pathways towards a stronger and more effective multilateralism. the european union supports the comprehensive concept of collective security proposed by the secretary-general, recognising that the threats to peace and security are not only war, international conflict, civil violence, organised crime, terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, but also poverty, underdevelopment, deadly epidemics and environmental degradation, including global warming issues. the european union expresses its agreement in principle with the package of proposals presented by the secretary-general, while maintaining an open approach. it intends to play a leading role in the process leading up to the september summit. the union considers that significant efforts will be required to achieve the best possible outcome at the summit covering a wide range of topics. it is crucial to maintain a good balance between the three main objectives outlined by the secretary-general, namely development, security and human rights. the challenge is therefore to achieve a certain critical mass of reforms in a coherent approach over time, while keeping open the possibility of further progress. in the european union we are used to these stepwise, transitional approaches. the european union fully endorses the secretary-general's analysis of the interdependence of the various areas concerned. it also emphasizes unequivocally that development is an end in itself and not just a means to security. the union is firmly committed to implementing the millennium declaration. it emphasises the link between the achievement of the millennium development goals and the implementation of the outcomes of un international conferences and summits in the economic, social, environmental and other fields. i will not repeat the objectives we set at the last general affairs council for an increase in development aid in the run-up to 2015. the union hopes that a number of issues of particular importance for the achievement of the millennium development goals will be duly taken into account in the conclusions of the summit. we also attach particular importance to the joint, united fight against aids. we want to think together about the link between environmental sustainability, security and poverty eradication. the european union strongly supports the idea of setting up a peacebuilding commission on the various security-related aspects. it is a priority for the union and it is essential that agreement is reached on this at the september summit. this proposal fills a gap. in the transition from a state of war to a state of sustainable peace, this peacebuilding commission could contribute to intensifying the planning activities carried out by the un for sustainable recovery, while strengthening the institutions guaranteeing the rule of law and good governance. at the same time, it could play a significant role in preventing new conflicts, which is often an important element in the consolidation of a lasting peace. this peace-building committee would be a permanent body, which could assist the security council and ecosoc depending on the phases of the conflict. the link with ecosoc is particularly important for the development dimension. the commission should also help ensure coherence between reconstruction and peacekeeping strategies. the union supports the overall strategy proposed by the secretary-general in his report and in his speech in madrid on the fight against terrorism. it is necessary to emphasize that terrorism is unacceptable in all circumstances, whatever the underlying factors invoked. the union recalls that the five pillars of the approach proposed by the secretary-general are consistent with the strategy developed by the union since the attacks of 11 september 2001 and reaffirmed in the wake of the tragic events in madrid. the european union also supports the recommendations presented by the secretary-general in the context of non-proliferation and disarmament, which are broadly in line with the approach of the european strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. since results can only be achieved through collective effort, the union is ready to take initiatives in this direction in a multilateral context and to address these issues in the context of its regular contacts and political dialogue in order to convince its partners to take these recommendations into account as well. the union considers that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction constitutes the most serious and immediate threat to international peace and stability. the general safeguard agreements and additional protocols should now be the norm for verification in the nuclear field. the negotiations on a treaty to stop the production of fissile materials will also have to be concluded quickly. the union also intends to play an active part in the elaboration of binding international instruments to regulate the marking, tracing and illicit brokering of small arms and light weapons, all of which we have already had the opportunity to discuss in the context of the work of your parliament. the union reiterates its wish that the adoption of the principle of the responsibility to protect will become one of the major priorities of the summit. human rights violations, impunity and failure to respect the rule of law are among the main factors threatening peace and security and hindering the development process. the union supports the efforts of the secretary-general to adopt and implement the principle of responsibility for the protection of potential and actual victims of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and other mass violations of human rights. finally, as regards the use of force, the union considers that the concept and criteria proposed by the secretary-general constitute a good basis from which all parties should be prepared to work. the proposed criteria are political rather than legal in nature and should reflect a broad international consensus, which would guide the members of the security council in their deliberations which may lead to the use of force. i would like to welcome the high priority given to human rights and the rule of law in the secretary-general's report. the union supports any proposal to strengthen democracy and to place human rights at the heart of the un system. we stress the need to strengthen the human rights system, in particular by integrating it into the whole of the activities of the united nations system, which would strengthen its capacity to respond permanently to human rights violations. we also support the call for the strengthening of the office of the un high commissioner for human rights and for sufficient financial resources to strengthen its capacity to carry out its mandate. the union thus agrees to the creation of a human rights council, a permanent body, in so far as it can help to increase the place of human rights in the un system. sixty years after the war and the creation of the united nations, the time has come to give a new impetus to multilateralism, to reform the united nations system, a system indispensable to world security, to the harmonious development of all nations and to the consolidation of peace. i think this is a chance we're being given. the european union must play an active role in this reform and i count on your parliament to support the council and the commission in this endeavour.
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome this opportunity to discuss un reform before the crucial un summit in september. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr laschet, on his report. the september 2005 un summit, to be held on the 60th anniversary of the un, is an opportunity that must not be missed. the summit represents an opportunity to take decisions leading to a more efficient united nations and one that is better equipped to deal with the challenges of the 21st century. in the last three weeks president barroso and commissioner ferrero-waldner have both been to new york, where they held constructive discussions on the summit preparations with the un secretary general kofi annan, his deputy, louise fréchette, and the president of the un general assembly, ambassador ping. during those talks, all the parties underlined the need for continuous and strong eu leadership in the preparations for the summit, in order to achieve substantial results in september. the commission, together with the presidency and member states, is thus reaching out to partners, both in new york and in capitals throughout the world. the active involvement of parliament in mobilising other parliamentarians around the world on the summit agenda would also be extremely useful. on 3 june we received the draft outcome for the summit, which provides us with a good starting point but nonetheless requires a strong european union input if we are to achieve ambitious results during the september summit. i am glad to see that the views expressed in the resolution tabled by this parliament are similar to those of the commission in many respects. as the un secretary general's report correctly states and as is underlined in parliament's resolution, progress towards achieving the millennium development goals (mdg) requires urgent attention. a serious boost to common actions is needed to reach the millennium development goals by 2015. on 24 may the european council agreed the commission's ambitious proposals to achieve collectively 0.56% of gni for oda by 2010 and 0.7% by 2015. this is an important step forward for international solidarity and a clear sign of the european union's commitment to a successful summit. we hope that it will provide a strong impetus for others to follow our example. allow me to address a few of the un reform proposals on the table that are of particular interest for reinvigorating the effectiveness of the united nations. the commission has been actively engaged in the discussions on the proposed peace building commission, which could fill the very real gap that currently exists within the un institutional machinery for dealing with the period between the end of a conflict and long-term sustainable development. i welcome the resolution's support for the peace building commission. the commission supports as broad a mandate as possible for the peace building commission, including support for democracy, functioning institutions and strengthening the rule of law. its work should consolidate peace and prevent the outbreak of new conflicts. in terms of its membership, both un security council and ecosoc membership should be represented, as well as major donors and contributors to peace building, international financing institutions, and key un agencies, funds and programmes. the european community's longstanding, worldwide and sustained peace building efforts are well known. i am therefore glad to inform you that, in the preparatory work for the summit, the european union has decided to press for the participation of the european community in all meetings of the peace building commission. i trust that parliament will be able to support that position. the commission strongly welcomes the un secretary general's proposals relating to human rights a substantial reform of the current un human rights architecture, including the replacement of the ailing un commission on human rights by a standing human rights council, is essential if the system is to be made more efficient and credible. the ultimate objective is to make human rights protection and promotion effective worldwide. i am therefore delighted to see that we agree on the proposed human rights council. the proposed election of the council by the general assembly should extend a sense of ownership to the wider un community. ownership must, however, be balanced by responsibility and the secretary-general's view that states seeking membership of the council should demonstrate a 'solid record of commitment to the highest human rights standards' is a welcome requirement, also in view of the obligations deriving from membership of the council. obviously the issue of reforming the security council is one of the high-profile elements of the current un reform debate. i note with interest the proposals made in the resolution for the establishment of an 'eu' seat. whilst security council reform is naturally an issue of great importance, it must not be allowed to stall the whole process of vital reform of other un institutions or other important areas where progress is needed. i would call upon all member states of the un to make every effort to ensure such paralysis does not occur. the commission fully supports better environmental integration across the un system, including the establishment of a un environmental organisation, and is delighted to see that the european union is coming together on this. i shall conclude by stating my satisfaction at the degree of concurrence that exists between us on many of the key topics at the heart of this issue. furthermore, i wish to underline the commission's determination to continue to work towards achieving good results in september and ensuring implementation of the summit's outcome.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. in all the crises the european union is currently experiencing and discussing, the commitment to effective multilateralism and a strong united nations is a commitment that unites the vast majority of this parliament, the council and the commission. the european union should send a clear signal in new york in september that we want reform and better functioning institutions, and we encourage kofi annan to continue along this path. i think this is also a typical example to give to those citizens who think that perhaps more can be done at national level. but the challenges we face require a global approach. if we want to fight terrorism, if we want to fight the problem of decaying states, if we want to fight global climate change and if we want to stand up for human rights and democracy in the world, then we need a strong united nations. that is why parliament, in the committee on foreign affairs, has confined itself to reacting to the high panel's proposals in the report which will be presented to the plenary tomorrow. we have not drawn up a new un report - we adopted it last year - but we are addressing the proposals of the high panel in concrete terms. and we are concerned about collective security. prevention, awareness and shared responsibility are the principles that should underpin the reform of the united nations. the second important point is freedom from want, i.e. a renewed development policy; and this year it coincides very favourably with the five-year anniversary of the millennium development goals in the year 2000. thirdly, renewed institutions, greater representation and efficiency. we have repeated our call for a european seat here. we know that it is not realistic to achieve this by september. but even if the european headquarters does not come, we want more europe. if there are new seats, whatever form they take, we want those seats to be given to the european union and that the european union should appoint its representatives who will then represent europe in the security council. it'd be a little signal in the right direction. the un secretary-general cannot reform the united nations, that is for the states to do. that is why we are calling on the european council to come together as states and support kofi annan in his reform programme.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the globalisation of the economy also requires the globalisation of politics. strengthening the united nations is the right response to the challenges facing the international community in the 21st century. i am glad that we have found a great deal of agreement in parliament and i thank mr laschet for his report. we see things in the same way across party lines. the social democrats have attached importance to the reform not being limited to the institutions but also to strengthening the tasks aimed at by the un missions. the achievement of the development goals, the millennium development goals, is one of the most important objectives for the next few years. we must achieve the goal of halving poverty, illiteracy and major diseases by 2015. then we have also made a contribution to peace and stability in the world. we need a stronger role for the un in peacekeeping and conflict management. there are many proposals on the table, ranging from a convention against terrorism to the delegation of the rights contained in chapter vii of the un charter to recognized regional organizations, to the african union or to the european union. why should the peoples not resolve the conflicts on their own continent before the blue helmets from other continents arrive? i'm here to strengthen the institutions. the security council is the sensitive issue. we agree that europe should have a seat in the long term. perhaps a mechanism will be found now, with regard to the non-permanent members, whereby the european council will mandate member states to carry out this task on behalf of the european union and in coordination with the institutions. we also need to democratize the un. a parliamentary assembly at the un is another demand. let's take a chance, it's rare. now this package must be tied up too!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. 2004 was a very difficult year for the world body. the year 2005 will therefore be all the more decisive for the united nations. the will to make a fundamental change in the organisation has never been greater, but the need for reform has never been greater. i am glad to see that, as my colleagues mr leinen and mr laschet have already said, there is a broad consensus on this: the clear commitment to the millennium development goals is broadly shared. the aim of achieving 'better synergies' between conflict prevention and peacebuilding and maintenance is also widely shared. we agree that this requires better and more resources, a faster response capability and clear rules for deployment in crisis areas. in the face of acute threats such as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the political will to act must go hand in hand with clearly defined and internationally recognised rules. the emerging international legal norm, which gives us the responsibility to protect, is a very important advance in this field. the most difficult hurdle will be the reform of the un bodies. the general assembly must become more efficient. it must be able to return to substantive discussions and not to empty debates, which are repeated year after year without any concrete results. ecosoc needs to do a lot better at its tasks. the security council also needs to be reformed. the committee on foreign affairs adopted a decision on this on 24 june and submitted it to parliament. we agree that our common vision is a permanent seat. but we also know that the legal and institutional framework for such a seat will not be in place until mid-september this year, especially after the failure of the referendums. is that why the reform should be delayed? i'm not going to. the world is not waiting for the eu. the reform must therefore be supported by all the member states of the european union, for the sake of the united nations and multilateralism, even if not all of them can be seated in september. the mechanism which mr laschet mentioned and which we have developed together is that the european seats are held in close coordination with the union. i also believe that this debate should take place in brussels rather than in strasbourg, especially after the failure of the french referendum.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there is a historic opportunity to achieve fundamental reform of the united nations. europe can and must play an important role in this. it is therefore very good that there is a large majority in parliament in favour of supporting the high-level panel's report on the reform of the un and the report by kofi annan which builds on it. the world political question is to get this report through and to achieve this reform. i was very pleased to hear that the council and the commission are also working in this direction. there are four major, central points in this reform where we must make progress. the first is a reform and enlargement of the united nations security council and a clear and unequivocal definition of the un monopoly of violence. in the context of the enlargement debate, it would be very good if we could achieve a european seat on the security council and achieve a real structural change in the representation of european politics. the second point is the development of international development policy into a genuine international structural policy. the key instrument for this is the strengthening and upgrading of the united nations economic and social council, ecosoc; the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the third point is: we need to transform the unep into a genuine un environmental organization that is sustainable and well-organized. this is a big job. the fourth important point is to upgrade the existing commission on human rights to a permanent human rights council elected by the general assembly. security policy, development policy, environmental policy, human rights policy - these are the four pillars on which we must make progress.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 103 (2).
president of the council. mr president, a few months ago we had a debate on strengthening transatlantic relations. this was particularly so after president bush's visit to the european institutions and after what can be described as a revival of these relations. we are now in the process of preparing for the next euro-atlantic summit, which will take place at the end of this month. it is important that this summit should produce concrete results so that the revival of dialogue achieved during president bush's visit can be put into practice. i would therefore like to mention a few points which i consider particularly important in the context of a strengthening of transatlantic relations. firstly, the iran issue, which was a major item on the agenda during president bush's visit. the americans not only supported the european initiative, but also agreed to open negotiations with iran to join the world trade organisation, and iran's accession to the wto is now an integral part of the european strategy. i believe that in this extremely delicate and sensitive matter we have succeeded in showing that cooperation between the united states and europe can provide solutions, but above all that it can lead to a coherent approach, which is above all a european approach. the union and the united states are jointly organizing and chairing a conference on the reconstruction of iraq, which i spoke about this morning. this decision was announced during the visit of president bush. with this announcement, we had an opportunity to show that we had put our differences on iraq behind us. the united states and the european union have the same objectives in iraq, namely to assist the iraqi government in the enormous effort of reconstruction and, above all, of strengthening security. the conference will be held at ministerial level, with more than 80 delegations, many from the region concerned. the iraqi government, which will be at the heart of this conference, will thus have the opportunity to present its plans and to discuss the economic, political and security aspects with the international community represented at this conference. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in sudan, which is suffering from a serious humanitarian crisis. as you know, the union is one of the main bodies supporting this court. the case of sudan is an important precedent for us. this is exactly the kind of situation for which the court was created. on the contrary, there was a risk that this would set an unfavourable precedent which would be difficult to overcome in the future if the situation had not been brought before the international criminal court. and after several weeks of intense negotiations, we have come to a solution that is acceptable to all, allowing the situation in sudan to be referred to the international criminal court, and to do so without a us veto. in this context too, the european union has exerted a very positive influence in the transatlantic relations, making it possible at the same time to take more effective multilateral action. political dialogue between the european union and the united states has become more frequent and more strategic, including on economic affairs. we must nevertheless stress that the problems remain significant. we all know the boeing and airbus case and we hope that in the context of the next summit we can still reach a satisfactory solution so that this does not happen at the wto and thus weigh on the future of euro-atlantic relations. a strategic dialogue on asia was also launched. the discussions on the lifting of the arms embargo on china have, it is true, revealed a lack of debate on strategic changes in asia. the start of this dialogue must therefore reflect our common interests and help the union to strengthen its own strategic thinking on this politically important and emerging region, and above all also economically. the european union caucus was recently established in the us congress, and we hope that you will take this opportunity to take advantage of the growing interest of your american counterparts in the european union. the dialogue between legislators is important and should be strengthened, especially in view of the importance of the senate in the field of foreign policy. so i think that developing relations between your parliament and the us congress must be an extremely important objective. mr president, these examples demonstrate the good state of transatlantic cooperation in recent months. it is essential to work with our american partners on the challenges we face. and the different examples show that we can overcome differences and adopt common approaches. so, important preparations are under way for the next eu-us summit, to be held on 21 june in washington. we expect a substantial and strategic summit, since it will be focused on key issues in international relations. the troika met with their secretary of state, mrs rice, earlier this month to discuss this. we are working on several draft declarations: the middle east, international peace and security, the promotion of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights, but also africa, the environment and economic relations. as in the past, we want to use these declarations as a basis for our work. during the summit we will discuss the most important strategic issues, in particular the middle east and eastern europe, the balkans, the situation in kosovo, but also - and we have just discussed this - the reform of the united nations. we can only reform the united nations with the support of the americans, and we know that we still have a long way to go in this respect. the americans, like us, support the proposals to set up a peace-building commission, but it is now necessary to give it a more concrete and, above all, more operational content. the european union is ambitious in the field of economic relations, as i have just said. the next presidency of the european union - it will no longer be ours - will inform you of the outcome of this summit. i am confident that the good momentum of transatlantic relations which we have been able to achieve during a visit by president bush can be continued at this summit and that we can achieve concrete results which will give a more solid basis to transatlantic relations in the future, as they remain an essential foundation for the european union.
member of the commission. honourable members, thank you for giving me the opportunity to address parliament shortly before our yearly eu-us summit, which will take place in washington on 20 june. i would like to say at the outset that we share many of the views expressed in your motion for a resolution and welcome the support of the european parliament for the strengthening of transatlantic relations. transatlantic relations are at a turning point. we are witnessing a new era of transatlantic unity. this was most recently confirmed by the condoleezza rice, when she said that, rather than sitting back and analysing the state of the transatlantic alliance, we are putting the alliance to work. this is a timely and welcome development. as global partners, the eu and the united states must take the lead in building a prosperous and safe world and in promoting democracy, human rights and the rule of law. we must work together to forge a common strategy to deal with global problems wherever possible. that is the message our leaders will doubtless seek to convey at the upcoming june summit. president bush’s successful visit to brussels last february was a sign of the united states administration’s desire to reach out to europe and work together in partnership with the european union. it was an important signal that we have put the problems of approach that arose over iraq behind us and that we are ready to work together in a constructive manner as allies. the united states is increasingly adopting a more open attitude to the european union and listening more carefully to our concerns. even where there are differences between us, we are learning how best to talk through them. a good example is the recently launched european union-us strategic dialogue on east asia, a forum in which to discuss the security challenges in the region, including those related to the rise of china. coordination also continues on united nations reform, though much work still needs to be done. the eu-us summit on 20 june will focus on three global themes: promoting democratic governance and human rights around the world, increasing economic prosperity for our citizens and championing security and development. i would like to say a few words on each. promoting democracy and freedom is the essence of president bush’s foreign policy in his second term. european union foreign policy, which is firmly based on the principles of the united nations and the european security strategy, also aims to promote democracy, together with human rights and the rule of law. the promotion of democracy remains key in the wider middle east and in the mediterranean region, where transatlantic cooperation has increased substantially over the past 12 months. shortly after our summit in washington, we and the united states will co-host an international conference in brussels on iraq. this is an important signal of unified international support for the government and people in their difficult task of working towards stabilisation and reconstruction. in addition we have been in daily contact over lebanon’s election process, and together we will continue to support the lebanese people as they consolidate democracy. in israel and palestine, our cooperative approach within the quartet is also intensifying. on economic prosperity, the european union and the united states have the most integrated economies in the world and benefit from the largest trade and investment relationship. but we can do more, and we want to. to move this agenda forward, we have spent nine months consulting all stakeholders on the obstacles they encountered and distilled the result in the recently published commission communication, ‘a stronger eu-us partnership and a more open market for the 21st century’. the communication contains a set of pragmatic proposals for boosting eu-us trade and investment and thus promoting competitiveness, growth, and jobs on both sides of the atlantic. there are three basic strands to our proposals. first, regulating the transatlantic market, including areas such as services, investment, procurement and competition; second, promoting knowledge and innovation; and third, instituting smarter and safer borders for swifter trade and investment. in the field of regulatory cooperation, the idea is to find ways for regulators to engage with each other at an early stage to avoid unnecessary conflicts and costs, and to promote convergence. the second strand, on promoting knowledge and innovation, is crucial for generating economic growth and jobs. new technologies, in particular e-commerce, internet governance and mobile telecommunication services, generated considerable interest amongst the stakeholders consulted. the third strand of our package is striking the right balance between heightened security requirements and the continuation of open trade and passenger transport. our communication also addresses the overall structure and goals of transatlantic relations. the question we address is what the political profile of our relations should be 10 years after the signature of the 1995 new transatlantic agenda and fifteen years after the 1990 transatlantic declaration. in essence, we must make sure that the structure and the goals of transatlantic relations are adapted to today’s challenges. we would also like to see legislators – the european parliament and united states congress – build stronger ties. for this reason we suggest enhancing the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue and making it a fully-fledged transatlantic assembly. the commission stands ready to assist as necessary, but an initiative of this nature naturally has to come first and foremost from this house and from the united states congress. championing security and development is the third theme of the summit. as we continue to identify measures to enhance the security of our citizens against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, it is worth remembering that such phenomena have claimed many more victims beyond our borders than within them. this reinforces our determination to work with the united states to spread the benefits of security in all its facets and to help release peoples everywhere from the daily tyranny of terrorism and violence. the european union and the united states should combine skills and experience in the field of conflict prevention and crisis response and bring to bear the full range of civilian and military tools at our disposal. we should consult routinely on current and potential crises. we should strengthen cooperation in post-conflict assistance and reconstruction. we should prepare, through joint training and exercises, and we should work together to improve international capacities to respond to crises and to prevent future crises from erupting. the european union is anxious to cooperate with the united states on crisis management, both civilian and military. we also recognise the need to tackle poverty, disease, corruption and instability, which terrorists seek to exploit and intensify. our common agenda should prioritise the millennium development goals. in conclusion, the commission welcomes the parliament’s motion for a resolution and, as i have indicated previously, we largely agree with it. we are taking an ambitious, forward-looking approach in developing our relations with the united states and are working actively in the areas mentioned in the draft resolution. we have a challenging agenda in front of us. we are looking forward to your support, and the support of united states congress, to accomplish it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that in these days when we are weakening as the european union, we must make it clear that the transatlantic relationship is of great importance to us and that in many ways the improvement of these relations in particular helps us to make our capacity for action clearer. the summit is therefore of great importance, both in solving certain questions and in initiating certain processes. it is important to reach solutions and agreements on economic issues more quickly, because the two great democracies on both sides of the atlantic are still the economic powers of the world. if they can provide the necessary impetus for growth, which is very important for combating unemployment and for a better world situation in general, this should be done within the framework of the multilateral approach. this is also important for the general political situation. when we see that there are unresolved developments in the world, which bring with them dangers and pressures, we know that the democracies can only find solutions together, and not only on the basis of nato, but on the basis of what the european union has now acquired in terms of competence in foreign and security policy, in legal and internal policy, as well as in the economic dimension. we must now also put this into a suitable concept. the transatlantic partnership agreement we are proposing can play a decisive role in this respect, in order to provide a framework within which we can develop this policy in a sensible way in the future. i read with interest in the commission's communication that this has no political support - except perhaps in the american congress and the european parliament. but it does not seem to be relevant to the commission that the support comes from these two houses. we should think about whether we cannot take a bold step forward at this time and not just try to find a solution in trivial matters, but give the summit the task of examining how we can make progress in these areas over the next 12 months. the united states has treaties with almost everyone in the world, the european union has treaties with almost everyone in the world, but there is no treaty between the united states and the european union. we should think about this for a while, so that we can make it work better, and not think for thirty years that the airbus/boeing dispute is the focus of our activities and our discussions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. my group also expressly welcomes the fact that after the ice age, which temporarily dominated the transatlantic relationship, things are apparently getting back on track. i believe that both transatlantic partners need to understand how much they need each other to protect and promote shared values worldwide. the transatlantic summit is very important in this context because it will hopefully help to make further progress. i would also like to expressly welcome the fact that our american friends have shown no cynicism after the failure of the eu constitution in france and the netherlands. some people might have expected something different. i am sure that this must be regarded as a positive development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to introduce them very briefly. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we have just read in the news agencies that even tony blair has failed to persuade the united states of america to make concessions on climate protection. unfortunately, our american friends are still blocking effective climate action, and we are just now realizing how strong the link between poverty reduction and climate action is. finally, the issue of human rights and international law. the american senator biden has once again made it very clear how important it is for the reputation of our american friends that the guantanamo prison camp be closed. we have just read again of the prisoners' mutiny at abu ghraib. these two camps, as well as the other illegal camps around the world, must be closed urgently, because they are a disgrace and are contrary to the values of the united states of america. i think it's very, very important to recognize that if we want to fight poverty, we must not enter into new arms investment races. the sign of the times must not be to set new records in the spending on the military budget. we must do everything we can to live up to our responsibility in the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can now go on to what my colleague james elles has said and my colleague hannes swoboda has mentioned, namely that both europe and the united states have a great responsibility in the world and that only if we do this together can we achieve the integration of the other countries which are less fortunate into the world economy. the commission, which i would like to congratulate on its statement, has taken a bold step. we have had a difficult political period and for a long time it was unclear what we could achieve in preparation for the current summit. we have wording and vocabulary that take us a step further. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are all valid and important points. i am particularly pleased that the commission has dared for the first time to use the word 'transatlantic market' and to find a wording for it, albeit a little cryptic, but it is the right way. we have raised this on several occasions in the resolutions of this parliament. it is very wise to recognise the reality of what we already have today - namely an integrated market. mr elles referred to the oecd study which not only says that we will get growth if we only continue to promote market integration within europe - and, according to the study, europe will benefit more than the united states - but we must also do the same in the rest of the world. that's an important point! if we benefit from it, other countries will benefit from it. in this respect, this study should be taken very seriously. i would like to congratulate the commission on the study it has commissioned. it has done well and will take us forward. the commission has also taken up a proposal from parliament that we should work more closely together in the area of parliamentary exchanges. i shall deal with this later. this is an important point and i suggest that we discuss all the points which the commission proposes here and which will hopefully be taken up at the summit, then in the framework of the parliamentary exchange.
the next item is question time (b6-0246/2005) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. we are considering the following questions to the council:
question no 1 by mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0358/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: measures to implement the european youth pact in the luxembourg presidency conclusions (22-23 march 2005) and in annex i to these conclusions, the european youth pact is mentioned, which theoretically includes measures in three areas. what are the concrete measures to be taken and the procedure to be followed by the european union and the member states to achieve the objectives of the youth pact, taking into account the need for solidarity between the generations? is there a specific deadline for the incorporation of internationally recognised best practice practices into national action plans and specific programmes? under what conditions will the results of the implementation of the youth pact be considered positive?
president of the council. i believe that one of the objectives of the lisbon strategy in terms of the social and employment aspects is to reconcile family life on the one hand and working life on the other. we know that in many countries, but not in all, it is often difficult to reconcile family life and work, particularly because of the lack of day-care facilities. this is an aspect which has already been included in the various employment strategies, but which will also have to be reflected in the implementation of the youth pact.
question no 2 by mr jonas sjöstedt (h-0362/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: judgment against egitim sen the judgment in the case of the turkish teachers' association egitim sen will be delivered by the supreme court of turkey at the latest at the end of may. the teachers' union is accused of violating the turkish constitution and endangering the unity of the republic by advocating the principle of the right of all children to be taught in their mother tongue. what action will the council take if the turkish supreme court gives a negative ruling in the egitim sen case? what will be the consequences of such a ruling for turkey's aspirations to become a member of the eu?
president of the council. i would simply say that the turkish prosecution has lost twice in this particular case and that the judgment which is expected shortly, and which will no doubt be in the same direction, will be final. it is clear that in the forums where the european union is discussing with turkey, all these specific cases and the other cases, more general, i would say, will be raised and i believe that we must continue to have such a dialogue with turkey on the issues of freedom of expression, the use of the language, freedom of association.
president of the council. i think there is coordination, but it may be useful to put the question to the commission as well.
the following questions are dealt with together because they concern the same subject: question no 3 by mrs maría esther herranz garcía (h-0364/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: regularisation of immigrants in spainthe justice and home affairs council, at its meeting on 14 april, asked the european commission to submit a proposal by the end of may 2005 for the establishment of a system of mutual information between the authorities responsible for migration and asylum policy in the member states on matters requiring important decisions by one or more member states. in the meantime, the spanish government has again changed the criteria for the extraordinary regularization of immigrants that is currently taking place in spain, by now allowing the so-called 'register by omission'. when and how was the council informed of the new criteria? question no 4 by mr javier moreno sánchez (h-0379/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: campaign to legalise immigrants in spainthe campaign to legalise immigrants, which was carried out by the spanish government, ended on 7 may with a great success, with almost 700 000 applications received. the aim is to put an end to illegal employment and to integrate illegal immigrants into spanish society. the legalization procedure was therefore linked to the submission of an employment contract. the campaign was supported by the trade unions, the employers' association and the whole of civil society. this procedure not only contributes to the elimination of undeclared work and the integration of illegal immigrants, but also puts spain in a unique position to contribute to the development of a common eu immigration policy and to give new impetus to this policy. does the council support the successful legalisation process in spain to eliminate undeclared work and to integrate illegal immigrants with all the rights that go with it? does the council consider that this experience now puts the spanish government in a better position to contribute to the development of a common eu immigration policy?
president of the council. patience is apparently another quality. your parliament has taught me a little.
question no 5 by mr bernd posselt (h-0372/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: accession negotiations with croatia what measures has the council presidency taken to finally bring forward the unnecessarily delayed accession negotiations with croatia?
president of the council. on 7 march 2005, the council reaffirmed the european union's commitment to croatia's accession and adopted the framework for the negotiations for that country. the council also recalled the importance of full cooperation by all the western balkan countries with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. this is a key requirement for their further rapprochement with the european union. as a result, after deliberation in the council and in the absence of common agreement, the opening of accession negotiations with croatia had to be postponed. in the meantime, a working group consisting of the presidency, the secretary-general/high representative, the commission and the next two presidencies has been set up. the task of the committee shall be to examine, in close contact with the court and croatia, the measures that croatia has taken and is still taking with a view to achieving full cooperation with the court. in this context, the working party met on 26 april 2005 with the court and the croatian party to examine the latest developments in cooperation between croatia and that institution. the group decided that the council conclusions of december and march remain valid and that the council would review the matter in due course, in the light of significant developments in the future in close cooperation with the court.
i have to say, madam president, firstly, i would like to ask whether the luxembourg presidency will put the issue of croatia on the agenda for the summit next week. secondly, i would like to ask what is the logic behind the fact that, as i have just heard, although the negotiations with croatia scheduled for 17 march were suspended on 16 march, the opening of negotiations with turkey on 3 october is now, as has already been said, pacta sunt servanda. why does unanimity for croatia be required to start negotiations and unanimity for turkey to not start negotiations? there's no logic in that at all!
president of the council. i would like to begin by stressing that croatia's cooperation with the council, and in particular with this working party set up within it, has been exemplary; it was also recognised by the court, and in particular by his prosecutor. i think the decision is still pending, and i hope that it will be taken and that it will be favourable. it will be taken unanimously, as all decisions to open negotiations must be. it may be that the european council is also discussing this particular case, but i think it is only useful to discuss it if we can hope to reach a rapid conclusion on this issue.
question no 6 by erna hennicot-schoepges (h-0375/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: combating alcohol poisoning and alcoholism among children and adolescentsin its recommendation of 5 june 2001 on alcohol consumption among young people, especially children and adolescents, the council called on states to take measures to curb the production and advertising of alcoholic beverages for children and adolescents. four years after that decision, it appears that the measures taken have had no effect: companies continue to sell so-called 'alcoholic drinks' which have been proven to be intended for young people, and the consumption of these products continues to increase, with all the harmful consequences for human health. what has been the result of this recommendation and what action has been taken in the various member states? what action does the council intend to take in view of the prevalence of alcohol abuse among young people? what fiscal measures are planned to tax designer drinks and what legal measures are planned to ensure that the labelling of these drinks clearly indicates that their content of synthetic alcohol and sugar is harmful to health?
president of the council. the commission, which has been repeatedly asked by the council to make proposals in this respect, should take account of what the honourable member has just said. it should also take account of the level. this is a matter of consumer protection, since we really need to know what we are consuming.
president of the council. the case shows that the member states must be able to act quickly and that they must have the right to act. in this area, subsidiarity can be applied and certain principles of free market cannot be invoked. it is not just a question of the free movement of goods, it is above all a question of health protection. i believe that it is through examples like this that europe must show that it is not stuck in a framework which ignores real concerns. i am grateful to you for asking me this question, but it is better to ask the commission.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for the opportunity to ask. i ask the council: are there any alcoholic beverages which, as the questioner says, are specifically designed for children and young people? secondly, is the council aware that there are also adults of legal age who enjoy these drinks and who are punished by a special tax, which already exists in germany, for example? thirdly, does the council agree that instead of fiscal, centralistic and patronage solutions, we should educate children, young people, adults and the elderly about the dangers of alcohol in general?
president of the council. i think what you said does not contradict what i have just explained. clearly, these drinks are not exclusively for children or adolescents. a priori, if we give the producers the benefit of the doubt, i think these products are not intended for teenagers. however, they are particularly attractive to this group of the population. you mentioned taxation. but above all, we need an information campaign for young people, because taxation alone is not the answer. firstly, it is up to the member states to take all the necessary measures and the member states must be put in a position, given a certain degree of freedom to take these decisions without encountering any problems in the end, since, in theory, they would have intervened in the free market and the free movement of goods. i therefore believe that this is the point on which the european union must also take a position on such products.
question no 7 by mr bill newton dunn (h-0377/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: joint investigation teams to combat organised crime allegedly, not all 25 member states have ratified the council framework decision of 13 june 2002 (14242/01) on the basis of which joint investigation teams could be set up. how many member states' parliaments have not yet ratified the framework decision and when does the council consider that the ratification process will be completed so that the union can deal with organised crime more consistently and effectively?
president of the council. so far, 21 member states have notified the general secretariat of the council that they have transposed the framework decision of 13 june 2002 on joint investigation teams. those member states may therefore set up joint investigation teams in accordance with the framework decision. in addition, two member states informed the general secretariat of the council that their draft legislation transposing this framework decision had already been submitted, or would be submitted very soon, to their parliaments. one member state informed the council that it had partially transposed the framework decision.
president of the council. i have to check if, in fact, we're only at twenty-four. i have to check whether a member state has not replied: i cannot give you the information now, but i promise to check. we may be able to provide this information in writing.
question no 8 has been withdrawn.
we don't do organized crime in this house at all! we are democratic, friendly and peaceful, mr president! as far as the question is concerned, the rules are quite clear. if a questioner withdraws the question, it ceases to exist. you don't have the ability to demand it. the question of whether colleagues inform each other and, moreover, across party lines is an interesting one. i would suggest that you simply start the debate with mr martin. if you have a request for mr newton dunn's question, i would allow it because there are two requests per request. so, please, ask the council president again about the organized crime inquiry.
that's very fair. we shall continue to discuss the situation with regard to withdrawn proposals by colleagues.
question no 9 by mairead mcguinness (h-0385/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: children's needs as a priority in policy-makingthe latest report from save the children entitled 'we are not responsible for child poverty, we are responsible for highways!' the eu, the millennium development goals and children's rights, one in two people living in poverty today is a child, and in five years' time 25 million children will be orphaned by hiv and aids in africa alone. one of the arguments highlighted in the report is that children are not adequately taken into account in policy. mainstreaming the needs of children has not brought the desired results. does the council accept the need to give more weight to children in the decision-making process and is there a political willingness to change the design of policy accordingly?
president of the council. the council is aware of the tragic situation of millions of children living in most developing countries in general and in africa in particular, particularly because of their vulnerability to hunger, violence, communicable diseases and, above all, of course, aids, malaria and tuberculosis. the council recalls that children are directly or indirectly targeted in the eight millennium development goals. the council is of the opinion that a coherent policy for children in the third world will not be able to achieve these objectives in 2015. the council has indeed emphasised the need to pay special attention to children in the implementation of the european union's development policy, through a series of recent initiatives. the european council of 16 december 2004 confirmed the european union's firm commitment to achieving the millennium development goals. at the same meeting, the council expressed its strong support for the european action programme to combat aids, malaria and tuberculosis through external action. the commission presented them at the end of april 2005. joint action by the european union and the member states, in collaboration with the main international organisations in the sector, including unicef, and with teachers' and parents' associations in the partner countries, is envisaged. the process of revising the november 2000 joint declaration on the european union's development policy is under way. a commission communication on future development policy is expected at the end of june. in the process of the extended consultation, many issues were identified as possible thematic priorities, including, of course, the protection of children. it should also be recalled that at community level, in 2004, the parliament and the council adopted decision 803/2004 adopting the daphne ii programme to prevent and eradicate violence, in particular against children. in conclusion, children are an essential dimension of the european union's development policy and the council intends to recall this priority, both in the context of the preparations for the summit on the achievement of the millennium development goals, to be held in new york in september 2005, and in the process of formulating the future development policy of the union.
president of the council. i agree with your analysis: we must listen to the ngos. in formulating development policy for the years ahead - which, for the european union, consists in transposing the millennium development goals - these aspects must be taken into account in a very concrete way. believe me, in any case, the luxembourg presidency, which is still managing this dossier until the end of this month, will carefully ensure that this objective - the protection of children - is one of the main objectives of our development strategy.
president of the council. i think, as i have said before, that the council has given its strong support to the european action programme to combat aids and other diseases. the council also expressed its wish to work on the issue of essential medicines and supported changes to make certain aids medicines accessible. there is a problem in the wto that has not been solved. we are one of the biggest donors to the fight against aids, because without that money we would not be able to do better in the fight against aids in developing countries. europe has more or less kept its commitments, unlike others.
president of the council. you raise a very relevant and interesting question. i think we should ask the commission - since it is it that has to answer this question - what concrete and specific actions are being taken by the various european union development aid programmes to combat the problems of aids and other such problems. i think you are quite right to ask the commission to report to you on specific actions in this direction. unfortunately, the council is not in a position to do so, since it is the commission which implements these programmes and actions.
i would like to point this out. i am glad to say that the plenary itself decided on monday to reduce question time to half an hour, and we have now spent three quarters of an hour. i shall not allow any further comments on the rules of procedure. as the question time is over, questions 12 to 30 will be answered in writing. for questions not dealt with, see the 'question time' annex. (the sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 26 april i had the pleasure of presenting to you in committee the amendments to the two regulations underlying the stability and growth pact, which the college of commissioners had approved on 20 april. five weeks later, we are debating here in the european parliament's plenary session mr karas' reports on both regulations, which is yet another example of the good spirit of cooperation with which this parliament has approached this important issue. during these weeks, parliament, the council and the commission itself have worked to complete the legislative process of reforming the pact before the end of the luxembourg presidency. after this first stage of consideration of the commission's proposals here in the house, we are already closer to an agreement, which could materialize - and i hope, if possible, that it will materialize - before the end of this month. as i explained in my committee presentation, our proposal, following the mandate of the european council - which had in turn endorsed the report of the ecofin council in march - was limited to the amendments to the regulations which were strictly necessary to make them compatible with the council's agreement. however, during the council's discussions, several member states argued that certain provisions, such as the minimum annual fiscal adjustment of 0.5% of gross domestic product for countries in excessive deficit or needing to move towards a balanced position in the medium term, or the explicit enumeration of the other relevant factors, should be included in the wording of the regulations. these requests have prolonged for a few days the discussion on some points on which there was already agreement in the council. fortunately, that agreement has been maintained and i am informed that today the council working party has reached a final agreement on the matter. parliament, for its part, has expressed its concern in mr karas' reports about certain parameters affecting the credibility of multilateral budgetary surveillance, such as the quality of national fiscal statistics, debt monitoring and the reliability of macroeconomic forecasts. parliament too legitimately demands to be regularly informed about the excessive deficit procedures. i should like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission shares the same concerns as parliament. many of these are, or can be, contained in some of the different components of the body of legal texts governing the coordination of economic policies in economic and monetary union. other concerns expressed in some of the amendments in mr karas' reports - i am referring more specifically to the monitoring of the debt and the regular reporting to parliament on the excessive deficit procedures - from the commission's point of view can be perfectly integrated into the pact's regulations. i said that to the eurogroup ministers on monday, and i even made some specific reference to how they might be collected. it is logically up to the council to take these suggestions into account and the council will formally express its opinion at the appropriate time - which i believe will be next monday. i hope that the cooperation we have enjoyed in recent weeks will continue until the end of the legislative procedure, so that we can have a renewed stability and growth pact as soon as possible, one which is adapted to the economic dynamics of the member states, both from a political and a legal point of view. the broad consensus with which we are implementing this reform is undoubtedly helping to strengthen the credibility of the pact and to demonstrate the unequivocal will to defend sound public finances as a necessary condition for sustained economic growth. just yesterday, here in strasbourg, the college of commissioners adopted a report recommending the opening of an excessive deficit procedure against one member state, italy. it is further proof of the validity of the stability and growth pact and a practical example of the spirit of the reform of the pact. it is also an indication that we must conclude the discussion on the rules for the operation of the pact as soon as possible and concentrate on the application of those rules and on the implementation of the principles and guidelines of the pact. finally, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing that has become clear in the recent negative votes in france and the netherlands on the draft european constitution, it is, in my view, the need to act and achieve concrete results that will lead to tangible benefits for the well-being of citizens, starting with employment and the consolidation of our social model. the european union must therefore take decisive action to boost our economies, create jobs and maintain our levels of social cohesion. the efforts of all the institutions - parliament, the council and the commission - are moving in that direction and i am convinced that they will enable the amended regulations to be adopted before the end of this month and, with it, the luxembourg presidency.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have already discussed the stability pact many times. i thank the rapporteur for his report, which was based on the council decision and which has done its work, but i do not want to hide - and i say this directly - that i cannot be friends with the council decision. the stability and growth pact in a single currency area presupposes that fiscal policies are brought together, that they do not diverge too much, and in the end, the only thing at stake is the future viability of our currency. we have had enough discussion material in the last few days to show how some people, including those in responsible political positions, feel about this, and perhaps the discussions in the months before that have also contributed a great deal to this. we expect the commission - and the rapporteur has already said this - to explain exactly how the council decision will be interpreted in future by the regulations. what does slightly exceed mean? what does short-term overrun mean? what areas will the commission accept in the future? i hope and expect the commission to be strict in this respect, and we shall soon see how it deals with the new pact in relation to italy and whether it is still worth the paper it is printed on. i hope that we can be as strict here. i also hope that the commission will always put its finger where the problems really are. these links - unemployment, stability pact - are typical of the cheap politics of the nation states. we must not be surprised, then, if in the referendums a large part of the population believes what the nation states are saying in brussels: the euro is to blame for unemployment and it is best to abolish it immediately. the commission has a great responsibility here, not to give in to this cheap polemic of the nation states, but, when it comes to drawing the appropriate consequences, like its predecessors, to go to the ecj to fight for the euro, for a strong currency and for the future. this regulation and the council decision will not make your life any easier. that's why you'll have more responsibility. i wish you the best of luck.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank mr karas and the shadow rapporteurs of the european parliament for the proposal we are discussing. they have worked well together to take this important discussion out of a superficial, ideological debate and to ensure that the european parliament can play its part in the urgently needed reform of the stability and growth pact. why do i say 'urgent reform'? let's just remember the economic facts. we have constructed a pact that has lived solely on the idea of having to fight inflation. this is an important objective which we have largely achieved in many member states. but it was never designed for an economic and monetary union in which we also urgently need to coordinate macroeconomic policies, because we need the flexibility to be able to react appropriately in an economic cycle, in both large and small economies. compare the data situation of the usa with that of the european union! since 2002, the united states has been much better able to respond to external shocks: the oil price movement, 9/11, the stock market crisis. why would you do that? because there the central bank was able to be more flexible than the european central bank. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a flexible, better coordination of our fiscal policies so that we can restore confidence in the european economy, but first and foremost in the interests of our jobs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr othmar karas. he has managed to formulate a contentious issue in a relatively short time in such a way that parliament can support it with a large majority. it was not an ideological debate either, mr bullmann, but the recognition that the political will to comply with the 1996 stability and growth pact was lacking. the first major test was a complete failure on the part of the two largest states, germany and france, which were then assisted by luxembourg and greece. this launch did not allow the stability and growth pact to play its rational and intended role. in this respect, the current reform is at best the second best solution, where the keyword of flexibility is to avoid any future breach of the rules. i am also critical of my own government in germany. the fact that the cost of european unification has been introduced as a new criterion opens the door to arbitrariness and means that in future, even if the 4% and 5% thresholds are exceeded, sanctions will no longer be possible. i think that is a serious mistake. the commission has been able to react only defensively in view of the overwhelming role of the council and the inadequate role of parliament in this matter. we have discussed this many times in this house. i therefore think it is good that mr karas has addressed these very points in his reports. we can agree on greater powers for the commission, a break with the co-judgement of the sinners and a greater involvement of the european parliament, but no one will be able to say that this solution of the stability and growth pact is future-oriented and can contribute anything to the future stability of the euro.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in fact, everything has been said, but not by everyone and especially not by me. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr othmar karas, very warmly. he made the best of the situation. some comments were nevertheless allowed. i am here today for the third time on this podium to speak on the stability pact. in 1997, parliament was compelled to express its opinion on the introduction of the euro and the stability pact that accompanied it at the time. we were happy to do so because we were convinced that the stability pact provided a basis for confidence for the citizens. the european parliament is, as the rapporteur rightly says, only marginally involved in the whole procedure this time. i think that cooperation means something else. monetary questions are questions of trust, and that trust has been shaken by the breach of the pact. the two so-called big players - as the rapporteur calls them - the complicity of equals - have set in motion the whole process of softening the blow. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in this matter. the heaps of shrapnel left by the schröder-eichel policy in germany and the chirac policy in france have dragged the euro into this whole negative discussion. the report by the rapporteur is a desperate attempt to save a piece of stability philosophy. we must stop making the crisis of confidence worse. the best solution would be for mr barroso, but also mr juncker, on behalf of ecofin, to withdraw all the amendments to the stability pact in the light of recent developments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur, mrs vlasto, has found very broad support in the committee on industry. it has illuminated all corners, but the spark for a new industrial policy is missing from this report, as it is from so many other things we are adopting here. i would like to say to mr libicki that the regulatory framework still needs to be reviewed. i am sorry, therefore, that this report will not be able to have the effect it needs. mr verheugen said that the commission would say no more often in the future in order to enforce better legislation, and he mentioned parliament and the member states. he has forgotten the commission itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. these are sufficient starting points, and in my view, as the president of the european commission once suggested, every european measure must pass three tests: the cost test, the competitiveness test and the subsidiarity test. i would like to support mr hudacký's view that there should be no regulation where the national states are responsible. we are faced with the question of how europe will choose between competition and isolation. is the increased competitive pressure acting as a fitness program for europe's economy, or has the old europe long since fallen into economic disrepute? the challenges are enormous. i am convinced that the core of europe is too fed up with international competition and is therefore choosing isolation and retreat. we have to start there! europe has been under competitive pressure from above and from below. we are too expensive on the one hand, and not productive enough on the other to afford the high costs. this is only enhanced by the new economies that have joined. the new member states bring us this competition. this is the important thing that enlargement brings: more competition and therefore a sound industrial policy. this is what we urgently need, and not the creation of new european programmes which nobody can do anything about and which have ended up losing the regulatory framework.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are hazardous substances and are used in the production of tyres for various vehicles. because of their toxicity, we're discussing restricting them today. we have a compromise which will probably be adopted by a large majority tomorrow, and i am glad that we are avoiding ideological debates on technical matters in particular and are adopting lean guidelines in a short time. we have, however, overlooked a few small but important aspects. an amendment which i co-initiated and which was originally adopted in the committee on the environment was aimed at achieving an extension of the deadline until 2012 for some urgently needed technical applications. the exemptions were for armoured, fire, rescue and other special vehicles. the number of applications is negligible, the damage to the environment negligible. the compromise package also included the original, indefinite exemption for aircraft tyres. at this point parliament is about to take an irresponsible decision. in aviation, we move in physical boundary areas. the safety aspect must therefore be given priority over environmental aspects. the industry cannot guarantee that we will have alternatives available from 2010 onwards that meet the specific and highest safety requirements of aircraft tyres. i do not understand how the council could have completely ignored this aspect, especially since the european aviation safety agency was not consulted and there was no impact assessment. i am not in favour of more red tape, but in a field as sensitive as aviation safety, we should have paid a little more attention to the risks, especially as we do in other environmental legislation, often going overboard. mr verheugen, i have a letter from the european cockpit association, which represents 34 000 pilots in europe, expressing great concern about this. i would like to emphasize this because the pilots are certainly not suspected of lobbying industry. i'm asking you if you're aware of this problem. i do not think that this compromise is acceptable without taking this aspect into account.
on behalf of the author. the commission is not i would like to apologize to mr gargani, whom i now represent here. he had to return to italy for an urgent family matter. i shall not be giving you eight minutes of my speech, given the crowd here today. i do not think that is necessary in this matter. let me therefore say a few words about the purpose of this matter. we sat down with the coordinators of the legal affairs committee a few months ago and thought that perhaps, given the fact that we are having difficulties with a whole series of legislative projects in the area of intellectual property rights - i will say this with some reservations - it would be quite sensible for us as parliament to take up this issue again and to take the opportunity to discuss it with the commission - perhaps at a later date also with the council. there is no doubt that it is of central importance for the european economy that we get a single patent in europe in the long term. i would remind you of our resolution on the lisbon process. i would remind you of the resolutions we have adopted on this subject and of the initiatives taken in recent years. we have always considered that the european patent has a special value in the context of the lisbon process and is of central importance, also in order to ensure the competitiveness of the european economy vis-à-vis the economies of other regions of the world. i do not want to hide the fact that some of us - and i in particular - are very concerned about the way things are going in the council. we know that there are discussions in the council which are not yet feasible because, because of unanimity, the necessary agreement of all the member states is lacking to create a patent which must be translated into all the official languages of the european union. such a patent would be extremely expensive. it would not be competitive, it would never be able to be reduced to a normal, reasonable patent once it was there. everyone knows that english is the decisive language, that it plays the absolute dominant role in technology, in the granting of patents, and that translation into all other languages is basically completely unnecessary and does nothing, but only costs money. once you have created such a language regime, you can never get rid of it. this is the experience of the european union and the result of the way in which legislation on such matters is usually made here. in this context, i am very concerned about whether we can and will eventually obtain a patent which can really meet the requirements we have set in the lisbon process. in addition, such an extremely expensive patent would also lead to discrimination against smes. the few large companies that exist - and they will be not only european but also non-european companies - will then apply for their patents under this new european patent, which will be valid throughout the community. but the small and medium-sized enterprises - and they are 70% and more of all patent holders - will not be able to afford this, given the cost. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's patent system is not affected by the introduction of the new technology. this two-tier society in patent law cannot be what we want in the european union. in view of the de facto blockade in the council, but also in view of the danger that if this blockade were to be lifted a bad patent, a bad patent regulation, would result, the question is therefore: what does the commission - which has the right of initiative, the monopoly on initiative - intend to do, perhaps, in the form of new initiatives to get things moving again and perhaps to achieve the lofty goal of the lisbon decisions, which is to have a european patent? the second complex which has touched us and which played a significant role in the report of a green colleague, mrs mercedes echerer from austria, is the question of collecting societies. we have dealt with collecting societies in various ways in the legal affairs committee during the last parliamentary term, both in the context of directives in which they played a role and in the echerer own-initiative report. we have come to the conclusion, more or less unanimously, that it is necessary to achieve a greater degree of transparency, while recognising the role of collecting societies, in their decision-making processes and in the fee structures, both for the benefit of the user and in the interests of the holders of these intellectual property rights. we know that there are discussions within the commission and that an impact assessment has already been carried out or is being carried out on this matter, and that it is also announced in the commission's legislative programme that a concrete legislative proposal will be tabled during the course of this year. i am now hearing from the commission that the question is still open whether it should become a recommendation or whether it will be a directive. i would like to hear from the commission on this matter. we know that the 'market' in question is not of the same scale as other issues, but it is also important for the development of the european single market that we clarify this issue, ensure a reasonable degree of transparency in this sector and perhaps also take initiatives to facilitate the use of copyright across borders. there are also activities and reflections. we would be interested to know what the commission intends to do about this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i may be a little late for a check, but it is a very important question and it concerns amendment no 15 to paragraph 27. this is a paragraph about u.n. soldiers abusing children in africa. the amendment says that the un is not doing enough research. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we have just seen that there is a majority in favour of our amendment to delete these paragraphs, and i would ask you to reconsider this if possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr laschet is absolutely right. our group voted with the ppe to abolish this paragraph. you said the motion was denied. the motion is granted. this paragraph is deleted. you need to correct your conclusion. the request has been accepted. this paragraph has been deleted.
in writing. the resolution adopted today by the european parliament on un reform (lachet resolution, b6-0328/2005) endorses the worrying developments at the un level. the resolution calls for the possibility of so-called military 'humanitarian interventions' to be incorporated into international law. most importantly, the resolution opens the door to the un security council mandating preemptive war. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. such a reform of the un will mean that the right of the stronger will also be endowed with the sanctions of the united nations. such a un 'reform' would support the dangerous concept of preventive warfare, such a 'reform' is a veritable war support programme. i am therefore very pleased that the left group (gue/ngl) voted against this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr csaba öry, for his excellent report. it is his first in the european parliament. it is convincing in its clarity and the urgency with which it describes the problems in the new member states. csaba, congratulations to you! some five million people are out of work there, and the trend is rising. the elderly, women, single parents and workers with insufficient qualifications are particularly affected. people with disabilities are being marginalized. the chances of finding employment and a secure income are getting smaller and smaller. my colleagues cabrnoch and libicki are quite right when they say that such situations exist in the old member states of the eu too. analysis of the situation in the new member states reveals that the transition from a state-led economy to a social market economy involves considerable structural problems. everyone must work to ensure that this problem phase is only of short duration. unemployment and lack of education are among the main barriers to integration. the community of our member states, which is based on social values, must defuse this sociopolitical time bomb. the creation of new jobs is a top priority, and i support my colleague in the field in this. jobs, jobs, jobs, that is what we urgently need! this can be achieved, for example, by decisive economic reforms to create favourable conditions for enterprises, or by financial incentives. i am thinking of tax breaks, wage subsidies and reductions in social security contributions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they have the potential to create jobs and training. and we are fighting for every one of these seats; they are desperately needed. the social partners have a crucial role to play in combating exclusion. they complement the efforts of the public and private sectors. the dialogue between them must be intensified. i support the creation of trade unions and of business associations. we need both. only when a large number of members are formed are both areas capable of action, dialogue and performance. the most common cause of exclusion is inadequate education and training. so it is necessary to promote the quality of education and training. this should include those groups of the population who are disadvantaged. the experience gained so far will be useful and we will involve the companies! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this includes the exchange of innovative and best practices. i consider this, as does the rapporteur, mr csaba öry, to be a priority objective.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say this with all due respect to my colleague. the point is on the agenda and i think we should vote on it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the country of bolivia, which is named after the great liberator, president simón bolívar, who represents all of latin america, is in a state of permanent crisis. and when you come to the cauldron of la paz, you immediately notice the extreme discrepancy between the beauty of this country and the incredible depression that lies over the people. bolivia has been called the beggar on the golden throne. in the past, the golden throne was made up primarily of ore, gold and other minerals, but today it is increasingly oil and natural gas. we can see, of course, that this country is in danger of becoming a pawn in the hands of political and economic powers. we have therefore, of course, an obligation to contribute to the stabilization of this country. in the neighbourhood there are large countries such as brazil, which my colleague, mr deß, has taken care of in an exemplary way, by ensuring that, by taking appropriate measures, more stability could be achieved, especially for agriculture, small farmers, independent farming enterprises, and that a mediumsized enterprise is slowly growing. we must also follow this path in bolivia, otherwise that country is in danger of disintegration, with all the political consequences that this would have for the whole of the border in latin america. that is why we must do everything possible to ensure that there is a peaceful transition, that new elections are held under international control, and that above all the country's self-healing powers are strengthened, that is, that small farmers and small and mediumsized enterprises are strengthened, because otherwise this country, which has long been a playground for corporations and ruthless guilds, risks becoming a hotbed of conflict that threatens to tear its neighbourhood, including brazil, for example, mato grosso, into the vortex. that is why we in this house need a strategy for latin america. there are two large christian-european continents: north america and south america. we have neglected south america, and that is something that could one day take its bitter revenge.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. azerbaijan is - as has already been mentioned - a partner country of the european neighbourhood policy. it has been included in this neighbourhood policy at the insistence of parliament, although it was not included in the first round, as were all the other republics of the south caucasus. we have a relatively ambitious programme in this respect with regard to azerbaijan. our principles, our values, our rule of law should also become the basis for the actions of the state in azerbaijan. the country report prepared by the commission, which will lead to action plans in the coming months, offers an opportunity to strengthen this process of democratisation and the rule of law. however, we should be careful in our criticism of the language used and should also call for the serious violations of human rights to be treated as such. but we shouldn't use the same language everywhere. i have just heard from my colleagues that there are more and more arrests, that there are - as mr meijer said - no free elections, that there is even the drama of introducing sharia in this country, and all this is ignored by the reality in azerbaijan. we must remember what region this country is in. we have been talking about uzbekistan this week. there, the government shot 400 to 500 civilians at a demonstration! and we are talking about an incident where on may 21 some protesters were arrested and released after a few hours and where after that the government allowed an opposition demonstration on june 4. this is still not in line with our understanding of democracy and the rule of law, but i think we should take this into account in our choice of words and in the way we assess what is happening here. it is right that we should observe these elections. the elections will take place in november and the european institutions should not make the same mistake as in ukraine, where the elections were not taken seriously at the beginning and were not followed. the high commissioner, mr solana, only woke up when people took to the streets to protest against the electoral fraud that has taken place in this country. we should therefore, as the european parliament, be following this process over the coming weeks and months. we should send a delegation of observers and we should use the action plans now under way to help this country which, in a very difficult region and in a situation where parts of the country are occupied, is determined to take the road towards democracy and european neighbourhood. we are also making a better contribution to our own european interests, to democracy, to the rule of law, than if we were to go around and criticize countries whose situation we do not know exactly.
president of the council. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the luxembourg presidency is coming to an end. some people will say, "well, i'm very sorry". i wish i could have kept going. (applause) so, it's time to take stock of the situation. we can make several observations which i hope will be undeniable. firstly, we were able to get the european council or ministers to take some decisions in areas where the controversy was particularly acute at the beginning of the year. we have reformed the stability and growth pact, thus ending a long period of uncertainty which had been the source of a major dispute between the euro area member states. we have not driven out stability, but we have added it to the preventive component of the pact. we have not made the correction section too flexible, but have given it a more economical and less automatic reading. i will ensure that the pact is properly applied and interpreted, and that it now takes better account of its two complementary dimensions: stability but also growth, growth but also stability. secondly, parliament, the commission and the council have succeeded in giving new strength to the lisbon strategy. increased competitiveness, a greater modernisation of our economic behaviour and policies, a renewed desire to innovate and to advance in research: these are the main lines of the new strategy which does not and did not want to put a stop to progress, as some might have originally wished, nor to social cohesion - which is restored as a major objective, a major objective of the european union - nor to a proper environmental policy - which is not far from being the enemy of employment and competitiveness. (a mobile phone rings and mr juncker stops) hello. (laughter) i was used to my speeches getting reactions. i didn't know they were so immediate. as regards the lisbon strategy, we are changing the way it is implemented. the member states, through national reform programmes, will take better ownership of the strategy and will thus be accountable to the national parliaments for the good national tradition of european texts and european will. the european council of june, last thursday and friday, adopted integrated guidelines for the first time in its history, an important event which, unfortunately, has not been much discussed in recent days. to those who want to modernise the european union by giving the impression that others would not want it to be modernised, to those who want to respond better to the new challenges facing the european union by giving the impression that others are blind to these challenges, i say: 'read your own decisions and apply them instead of asking for new ones'. thirdly, mr president, we have succeeded in setting new objectives for official development assistance at european union level. after recalling that by 2015 the european cooperation effort must be increased to 0.70% of our national wealth, we set the european union an intermediate target of 0.56% of our national wealth by 2010. i am not a little proud of this decision because i knew it was controversial and controversial at the beginning of the year. this decision, this advance will increase the level of aid from 46 billion euros in 2006 to 66 billion euros in 2010. more money, therefore, every year and, from 2010, 20 billion euros more per year. it's not everything, but it's something. other parts of the world as rich as the european union could use this as a useful model for helping to eradicate poverty, a real scourge of modern times. we were able to eliminate slavery in the 19th century, we must be able to eliminate poverty in the first half of this century. (applause) i would like to thank fourthly, and finally, mr president, in accordance with the commitments i made on 12 january when i presented the programme of the luxembourg presidency, we have improved our relations with our american partner. this was the case at the meeting of 22 february in this city of brussels with president bush, who had wished to visit europe. this was also the case at the summit with president barroso and president bush on monday. i should like to point out that on sunday we had another summit with canada. canada is too little spoken of as an important ally of the european union. north america is also canada. (applause) i would like to thank the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the gulf. today in brussels there is a conference on iraq which we suggested to president bush at the meeting on 22 february. the european union and the united states co-organizing and co-chairing today a conference on iraq: who would have thought, a year ago, six months ago, that on a subject as contentious as iraq, the european union and the united states of america would one day be able to join hands to ensure that democracy and freedom are established in iraq once and for all? i am not a little proud that i have been able to bring americans and europeans back to the same line of analysis and action on iraq. this is to be commended. (parliament adopted the resolution) i would point out that your applause is very weak on this point. if i had come back to your parliament to say that relations between the americans and the europeans have deteriorated further, well over half of you would have immediately stood up and said that the presidency must acknowledge a serious failure on an important aspect of external relations. we have also been able to reach an agreement with neighbouring russia on what is commonly known as the four areas. our relations with russia, which have been so important since the summit of 10 may, have calmed down considerably. that is to be commended. however, differences of opinion persist, and this should be acknowledged. mr president, in december 2004, under the dutch presidency - and it is perhaps worth recalling this - the future luxembourg presidency was given the task of reaching a political agreement on the financial perspective before the end of june 2005. on 12 january 2005, just three weeks later, i was discussing the prospects for an agreement with you in strasbourg. i said to you at the time, and i quote myself, you know i love quoting myself: (laughter) "we're going to do everything we can to get an agreement, but i'm not deluding myself. member states have locked themselves into positions so rigid and fixed that they will find it difficult to leave them in good time.' i was right and i added, quoting myself again: 'the absence of an agreement in june will not be the failure of the presidency, ... (applause)... it will be the failure of europe.' i hadn't seen right, or rather i hadn't seen entirely right. some people blame the presidency for the failure because it wanted to complete the mandate given to it by both the previous presidency and all the member states. others argue that the disagreement is not a failure of europe because agreements on the financial perspective are always made at the last minute. i say to you that this is a failure for europe and also for the presidency because the disagreement on the financial perspective, an accident of course in normal times, has led us, after the uncertainties caused by the french and dutch referendums, into a deep crisis. clearly, those responsible will tell you that there is no crisis. i say that the crisis is deep because it is not exclusively financial or budgetary. but let's take things in order. firstly, between the position of those member states who wanted to limit the european budget to 1% and the more generous initial position of the commission, the presidency proposed, for the period 2007-2013, a budget of commitment appropriations which covered 1.056% of national wealth and a budget of payment appropriations which covered 1% of national wealth. i have the impression that this volume is now generally accepted by all the member states. it is already that, and you will see that any future compromise will be only a few millimetres away from that level of expenditure. if it's to move forward a few millimetres later, i would have preferred we decided last week. i received all my colleagues in the european council in luxembourg from 30 may to 12 june, from 8.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. i have negotiated the financial perspective with my colleagues for 50 hours and if you add to that the 15 hours of debate, negotiation and consultation we had at the european council itself, you get a total of 65 hours of consultation, debate and negotiation. very honestly, we can't do more, and very honestly, everyone who comes after me will do less. (laughter and applause) i have listened carefully to the 50 hours of friendly, bilateral debates. no one - and when i say no one, it is no one - has demanded that the british cheque be maintained as it is, no one. in its last proposal for a final compromise, the luxembourg presidency maintained the principle of the british cheque: we did not freeze it in our last proposal. the general scheme of the compromise was that the cheque would have remained as before in relation to the 15 old member states, as before, exactly as before, but the united kingdom would normally have co-financed cohesion policy in the new member states only while not participating in the cost of the common agricultural policy in relation to those same states. this adjustment would have been equivalent to a cheque for eur 5 500 million per year, a higher level than for the whole period 1984-2005. initially, the presidency had proposed a freeze of the british cheque at 4.7 billion, which would have allowed us to correct the net contribution of the netherlands by about one billion euros and to lighten the burden, particularly for germany and sweden, which was considered excessive. since you always ask for transparency, you're going to get it. the netherlands, its prime minister, its foreign minister, its minister of finance knew that the presidency's intention was to lighten the burden of the country by one billion euros a year. we have not been able to do that because the united kingdom was not prepared to adjust the british cheque sufficiently so that we would have the budgetary leeway to allow the netherlands to pay one billion euros less and to lighten the burden on sweden and germany. if this billion had been granted to the netherlands, it would have been germany that would have had to pay them because the united kingdom would not have sufficiently revised its cheque downwards. i wanted you to know that and i did not ask germany to do it because germany had already taken a huge step forward from its initial proposals towards the position of the other member states. so if the original proposal of the presidency had been accepted, the problem of the netherlands, germany and sweden could have been easily solved. the final proposal of the presidency for a level of five and a half billion would no longer allow all this to be done but would at least have allowed britain to co-finance, as it should, the cohesion policies in the new member states, except for the common agricultural policy, which, as we know, the united kingdom has a particular eye on. it's as simple as that, and at the same time, as complicated. if only those who wrote a letter to the six on a day of great inspiration had agreed on the details of their proposals! (applause) i would like to thank the presidency also proposed a statement by the european council, which said that 'there is a need to reflect more appropriately on how the european budget responds to the future challenges facing the european union and to the priorities of our citizens. such a comprehensive reflection should lead to a reform of all aspects of the budget.' all aspects of the budget, that means also the common agricultural policy. the commission's proposal that this reflection should be confined to the common agricultural policy was a proposal which we knew would be rejected and rejected by other member states, but to include all the sectors, categories and branches concerned in the critical reading of our budgetary behaviour would have given the commission the opportunity to reach a good decision. we asked the commission to report on all these aspects and the commission agreed to do so, since the president of the commission did not leave me alone for a second when i held bilateral talks during the european council meetings. it is quite normal for the commission presidency to attend such a meeting. we therefore proposed that the european council should take the appropriate decisions on the basis of the commission's report, and i quote the text i had proposed: 'including possible adjustments to the financial perspective for the period 2007 to 2013'. the following is the decision suggested by the presidency: british cheque held for the fifteen; the commission will be able to make a contribution to the budget of the european union by means of a budgetary contribution from the united kingdom which will take account of the cohesion policies in the new member states, with the exception of the common agricultural policy in those states. the commission proposal by the end of 2008 on a rearrangement of the budget; the council's examination of its proposal and possible amendment of the financial perspective for the last part of it, from 2009. i wanted to tell you because no one told you and because you might hear another explanation soon. (applause) i would like to thank it is not true that the presidency wanted to kill the british cheque. we wanted to keep it for the europe of the fifteen, but we wanted to give it a more solidary shape for the new member states. this is the package that was rejected. we were wrong to reject that package. this package was rejected, although we introduced, under the ceiling of the october 2002 decision, an additional six billion in cap costs for bulgaria and romania. while the letter from the six might have given the impression that the six had agreed that the agreement of october 2002 should not be touched, i took that risk for the fifteen - a risk, moreover, widely shared by the others who were happy to have found a wisely inspired initiator for the fifteen. while in 2006 €42 billion will be spent on direct aid and market measures, the presidency's proposal would have meant that for the europe of the fifteen this amount would have fallen to €35 billion in 2013. we would have gone from 42 billion in direct aid and market measures to 35 billion in 2013 under the president's proposal. this would have meant a drop of almost 17% for the common agricultural policy alone. and even in the eu27, that is to say with our friends in romania and bulgaria, the cap would have fallen by more than 5% over the period under consideration. to say that nothing has been done to alleviate the burden of the cost of the common agricultural policy is simply not true. we've done everything we can to make this happen. when i presented the first budget i had to present here, the 1986 budget, to this parliament in october 1985, agriculture absorbed 68% of the european budget. i had proposed that it should absorb only 37% of this, or 35 billion euros, in 2013. what a journey! how stubbornly he refuses to see it! the presidency's proposal would have meant that the cap would have been the only sector in which expenditure would have fallen significantly, whereas, for example, future-oriented expenditure would have all increased. 7.5% increase for expenditure related to the lisbon objectives: 7.5% per year over the whole period 2007-2013, this represents an increase in the appropriations allocated to the lisbon objectives of 65% compared to 2006. increase of 15% for policies relating to justice and home affairs, including those dedicated to a more effective fight against crossborder crime. finally, an increase of 2% for the cohesion policies at 27, with a greater focus on the new member states. we had made some changes to the distribution of appropriations between the old and new member states in the cohesion policies, bringing the total of appropriations allocated to the new member states to 53%, whereas in the commission's reference proposal this figure was 47%. it is simply not true that the main effort in our proposal would have been directed at the former member states. the research budget is then compared with the budget for the common agricultural policy and vice versa. you can't compare the incomparable. why would we want to compare what is incomparable? the common agricultural policy is the only truly community policy financed entirely from the european budget. research is a national policy supported by the community budget. you can't compare the two. the cap would have cost, according to the presidency's proposal, eur 305 billion for the whole of the period under consideration. the public research policies of the member states of the european union and the european union would have represented, if national policies had remained at the level they are at today, 524.5 billion euros over the period 2007-2013, thus much, much more than the common agricultural policy. if the member states, and the european union as a whole, were to make an effort to follow up the presidency's proposals and fulfil the commitments they made in the reformulation of the lisbon strategy, they would increase the public share of research budgets in relation to gdp from 1.9% to 3%. national and eu research policies will have to reach a level of 785 billion by 2013. if all the decisions were respected and the presidency's proposals accepted, research budgets would be 785 billion, i am talking about the public part of the research budgets, compared with 305 billion for the common agricultural policy. so stop telling us any more nonsense about this case. the expenditure on the common agricultural policy has been corrected downwards and, compared with what is comparable, it remains well over half the amount of research expenditure. so let's stop comparing what is not comparable. that, mr president, is the summarized facts. today we have a disagreement. we will have to find an agreement to enable the new policies to be launched in the new member states in good conditions from 2007. we have no right to disappoint the new member states, who in all the bilateral talks i have had and in the final and overall discussion have shown the most outstanding and noble behaviour. we must now move forward to find a better formula, if there is one, without breaking the instruments of cohesion, without reducing our common policies, without attacking the cohesion policies. it is a demand, it is a burning demand. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, the ratification of the constitution was still on the agenda of the european council meeting. i shall be brief on this aspect of the matter, since the decisions taken by the european council on this part of its agenda were more objectively commented on by the participants and by the observers. we must note that ten countries have ratified the constitutional treaty, while two others, france and the netherlands, have rejected it. we thought, not because we were obstinate and stubborn or blind, that the constitutional treaty was not the issue, but that the constitutional treaty was the answer to the problems that very many europeans may have with regard to the european union. we have therefore decided to continue the ratification process. some member states, perhaps feeling the need, before going to the polls via their parliaments or the referendum process, to intersperse a period of reflection, explanation, debate and therefore democracy, have decided, following this decision, to postpone the referendums or parliamentary ratification they had scheduled. in these countries, debates will take place. i would like to see this call, which was the european council's, heard and that there is now a longer period of reflection, explanation, debate and, if necessary, controversy, in all the member states which are going to ratify, in the member states which have already ratified and in the two member states which have rejected the constitutional treaty. we need to have rich european debates, nourished and fuelled by each other's ideas, in all the member states of the european union. we must discuss europe and i would like the institutions of the european union, the european parliament, the council, the commission, the member states, civil society, trade unions and political parties, national parliaments to take part in this broad debate. i would also like the commission to find its proper place in this debate, which will be european and 27 times national. i would like the commission, which is the guardian not only of the treaty but above all of the spirit of the treaty, and also of the european ambition, to be at the centre of this debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, i invite you, i urge you, i urge you to make this debate the commission's and your own business, i know you want to do it, you must do it, it is urgent. (applause) i would like to thank we are told, and i have said it, that in this budgetary debate we have seen two conceptions of europe come up against each other: one that is based on the merits of the market alone, a market which is incapable of producing solidarity, and the other that is based not on, but entirely on, greater political integration. the free trade area on the one hand and political union on the other. that is the debate we are going to have, because we already have two opposing sides in europe at the moment. those who think that europe as it is has already gone too far and those who think, like me, that it still has a long way to go. this explanatory debate must be used to reconcile these two parts of our public opinion which today do not speak to each other, which look at each other like lazy dogs, which cannot dialogue. we, the european institutions, must build a bridge between these two camps of public opinion. but i read, and this reassured me greatly, that those who had thought, after the last european council, that there had been a clash, a confrontation, between two conceptions of europe were very much mistaken. the fact that nobody actually wanted a free trade area, that gave me a lot of peace of mind. (applause) you know, free trade zones don't just come into being overnight. the less we invest in political union, the more we, without knowing it, without noticing it, without being aware of it, advance, with implacable logic, the concept of the free trade area. when this concept has been consummated, it will appear as a natural development of things that no longer allows us to return to what the supporters of the free trade area would conceive as a step backwards to political union. there are those who say that they have no intention of leading europe towards a free trade area, a concept that is too simplistic for a very complicated continent. the point is simple: those who thought they were pointing the finger at the danger of the free trade area were wrong. those who say they were wrong will use the coming months and years to show that they too want a political union as described in the constitution and nothing else. it is as simple as that, it is a question of saying yes or no to the question i have just asked. (applause) i would like to thank as i come to the end of my presidency, mr president, i would like to remind you, without quoting myself, that at the beginning of my presidency i stressed the need to respect the institutional rules, to respect what is commonly called the institutional triangle, to which i continue to attribute a number of virtues. we have done so in a systematic way during this presidency. there has been an exchange of views between the presidency of the european union and the commission, a virtuous debate which has never ceased. nothing that has been done by the presidency has been done without the commission's prior knowledge. no initiative was taken by the commission without the presidency being informed in advance. the presidency consulted the commission on its initiatives. the commission consulted the presidency on commission initiatives. i have had a great deal of pleasure in working with this commission and particularly with its president, and i would like to thank the commission and its president for the many good advice they have given to the luxembourg presidency. thank you, mr president of the commission. (applause) i would like to thank as far as your parliament is concerned, we have worked as twins. we have often disagreed, either because your proposals were not wise or because the wise proposals of the presidency were not accepted by all the member states and therefore could not find your agreement, which was nevertheless spontaneous every time the presidency presented its own initiatives to you before presenting them to the other member states. the european parliament has now reached its maturity. i do not say this in a paternalistic, condescending way, but i can measure it in terms of the explanations, the intensity and the quality of the debates today compared to those i have known since 1982. it is a great parliament, which has no reason to hide, which carries the legitimacy, which carries the hopes of the peoples of europe. very often, in plenary sessions, there are not enough members of parliament, except today - which i am very pleased to see - and that is the case. (applause) maybe we should work on that a little bit. i have discussions with parliament and when i leave parliament, with the visiting groups. (laughter and applause) those who come to parliament do not come just to see the chamber, they would like to see it filled, that's how it is. so, we'll have to work on that a little bit. apart from that, we know the reasons why members of parliament cannot always be present in the chamber. i must say that it is a great pleasure to work with parliament, in public, yes, but especially in committees. what a level of knowledge, what a commitment to the european cause in the meetings of parliamentary groups and in the meetings of parliamentary committees, in the many interviews with individual parliamentarians. i shall greatly regret not being able to come to the european parliament as often as i have been and take part in the great european debate which is taking place in this house and elsewhere. mr president, on 18 june, early in the morning after the european council, i was very sad, sad that i had not succeeded in preventing europe from entering the crisis, not definitively but decisively. i was sad and i showed it. i sometimes read that i have not been very diplomatic, but i have no desire to be diplomatic when europe is in crisis, no desire to be diplomatic, none. (applause) nor any desire to play a role, to be an extra in a play. i am not on a stage, i want to work in the interests of europe and in the interests of its citizens. i don't have time to act. because we never say things as we mean them, because we always play a role, because we always want to be diplomatic so as not to clash, people don't understand and believe that we are machines. we are not machines, we are human beings, with disappointments and despair. (applause) i would like to thank i was disappointed because i had thought that europe was in a position to say that it had reached adulthood and maturity. i have noticed that the post-pubertal period in the european union is long. i thought she was an adult, but i realize that we are still in the final stages of a long post-pubertal period. that was the reason for my disappointment, but i also had reasons to be satisfied. i am pleased, for example, that we have been able to do what we have done, most of the time together, to bring at least 20 countries to an agreement on the financial perspective. that's a good herd, 20 out of 25 countries. and i was happy, proud to hear, and to listen to and to see the new member states give us a lesson in european ambition at the end of the european council meeting. what a shame for those who did not develop the same speech! (applause) i would like to thank i had felt my convictions had been shaken somewhat in the early hours of 18 june, and i did not have the strength, nor indeed the grandeur, necessary to make another appeal on the same date. it's not de gaulle who wants it! i'm discovering a modesty that surprises me. (laughter) i had felt my convictions shaken for a moment, but after a few days, after receiving thousands of letters from all over europe, after receiving encouragement from the commission, from the parliament, from many observers who are also actors, i feel that the moment of the first disappointment is over, more determined than ever. our generation has no right to undo what previous generations have done. (applause) we have no right to undo what our predecessors have done because the generations that will come will need a political europe. if it's not political, it'll drift away. they need and want a europe of solidarity, a social europe, a competitive europe, a europe strong at home, a europe strong in the world. so, old europeans and convinced europeans, let's do it! you have to be brave. (the president gave the president-in-office a standing ovation)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the house, one of my teachers once advised me to always be pessimistic, because that way, all my life, i would either be right or have pleasant surprises. judging by the reactions and events of the last few days, the pessimism seems to be fully justified, but i must tell you that i do not believe in pessimism. i think i can tell you that now more than ever we need to show our determination. it is true that there are problems in europe and it is true that the problems are serious, but we must face these problems and be able to find a solution. during the luxembourg presidency we have seen the implementation of major initiatives and innovations which will determine the activities of the european union for the years to come. let me first of all look back, from the commission's point of view, at the last six months, a period marked by the experience and the european conviction of my friend jean-claude juncker. first of all, we have succeeded in adopting our strategic objectives for the union for the next five years. this is the first time that they have been approved jointly with the council and parliament. today, the same broad guiding principles of prosperity, solidarity and security provide us with a framework, a common framework for the institutions of the european union. there is therefore a chance that our action will be much more effective and targeted, so that our action can be translated into a real partnership for renewal. it is also to the luxembourg presidency that we owe the negotiation of an agreement on how to base the stability and growth pact on a more realistic and workable basis. this reform has neither weakened nor relaxed the pact. it has even given governments more flexibility to optimise growth through fiscal instruments over the economic cycle. but perhaps the greatest success of the luxembourg presidency, in terms of the commission's priorities, was the renewal of the lisbon strategy at the spring european council. this has been progress, not only for the institutions and governments, but also for all european citizens. it is worth recalling that, however important the institutional debate, most europeans, when they meet as families, when they meet at school, at work or during leisure, do not discuss possible configurations of the blocking minority in the qualified majority voting system. what concerns our fellow citizens is more the slowdown in the economy. they are especially worried about their jobs or how difficult it will be to find work. that is why we have renewed the lisbon strategy: growth and jobs. that is why we believe that all of us, the european institutions, must do more to improve the lives of our citizens. this is the way to re-establish the links between europe and its citizens and to respond to the concerns of europeans. however, there have been other successes during the luxembourg presidency, particularly in our external relations. president juncker has already said that the summit with russia, the summits with canada and the united states, the improved relations we have today with our great partner on the other side of the atlantic, all this is to the credit of the luxembourg presidency. during this last european council we have analysed two questions in particular: what to do in the period following the referendums in the netherlands and france and what to do about the financial perspectives? first, the debate on the future of europe. the decision of the european council seems to me to be a wise one. european leaders have decided to have a space for reflection and have opened the door to debate, dialogue and democracy. you will remember that the commission said just before the european council that it wanted to initiate this debate by going, if necessary, and that is what we are going to do, to all the member states of the union to discuss and listen not only to the governments, which is undoubtedly important, but also to the parliaments, the social partners and the young people of these countries. we are very proud to have been given a mandate by the european council to play a special role in this undertaking, in this debate which must be organised in each member state but which must also be pursued at european level. we will do so and we hope that by the end of this year we will be able to present to all europeans our strategic vision for europe. what will europe be like in the next six, fifteen years? we must engage in this debate without being afraid of any of the subjects, even those which are more difficult and more complex for the institutions. it is not just about spending money that needs to be discussed, but also about goals. we must talk about the european social model. how can we do this in the 21st century? how can this european social model be modernised? how can a balance be achieved in community legislation? how can we avoid bureaucracy at european level? how can further enlargements be made so that europeans can support them and understand the importance of a united europe? we are sure that the european parliament will have a very important say in this debate and we, the european commission, want to work with you because we believe that a new consensus in europe is needed. (applause) i would like to thank i shall now turn to the other main subject of last week's summit. it was very disappointing that we were unable to reach a conclusion on the financial perspective. the presidency worked tirelessly for a breakthrough and i have to say that we were near an agreement. unfortunately, discussions on the budget have rarely brought out the best in the member states and, sadly, last week was no different. there are some fundamentally different views and some clear national interests, but this in itself is not so unusual. what makes the situation especially delicate is that this 'no solution' for the financial perspective comes after two 'noes' in two national referendums. i regret that during the european council no leaders were able to show a true spirit of compromise and solidarity on that very important occasion. but it would be wrong to give the impression that we have gone nowhere as a result of last week. the committed work of the luxembourg presidency over the last six months has brought us a long way. this is important because there is a real urgency to get an agreement. if we do not reach agreement, then there is a risk of paralysis which will have a very negative effect on our policies and on all the member states, particularly the new member states. i want to underline the very constructive approach taken by the new member states. sometimes people ask me whether it is not more difficult to be in the commission now with 25 member states and very soon to be 27 member states. is it not a much more complex and difficult european union? i say it is, but let's be frank. the problems we have in europe today are not the result of the demands of the new member states; they are not the cause of the problems we have in europe today. (applause) when we consider the work of the luxembourg presidency we have to say that we cannot go backwards. we must build on the outgoing presidency's achievements in order to get an agreement as soon as possible. the incoming presidency has made it clear that it also intends to take these dossiers forward and we now wait with interest for the uk presidency to relaunch the process. the commission is ready to work with this presidency and all the member states. more work is needed. i made it clear last week that i have real problems with the downgrading of some of the policies that the commission and parliament have emphasized. this is particularly true of those policies aimed at renewed economic dynamism. genuine reform comes at a price. reducing the commission's proposed spending in areas such as research, innovation, education or transport and energy networks will have a real policy cost. our citizens are unlikely to be forgiving if we fail to deliver on our promise regarding growth and jobs. but let's be honest here. the problem, when the council reduced the ambition of the commission and parliament's proposal, and when the council decided to follow the 'one per cent club', was that the areas which were particularly sacrificed were precisely those of competitiveness, growth, education, innovation and research. cohesion was more or less kept. the common agricultural policy was, of course, maintained in accordance with the agreement made three years ago, but there were major cuts in the areas of competitiveness, growth, innovation and research. this shows the price of that famous letter from six of the member states asking for one per cent. it is a pity that the member states which agreed on one per cent expenditure those agreeing on that cannot now agree in the european council. in fact, they were divided on the issue. it shows what happens all too often today in europe. it is easier to get a coalition for a no vote than to get a coalition for a yes, when what we need in europe now are coalitions for yes and not more coalitions for no. these important coalitions are needed for the project for europe to go forward. (applause) i would like to thank you. the commission will continue its work and will pursue the goal of reaching a balanced agreement with the member states. this must involve parliament. we want to be sure that when the european council is ready to reach an agreement it can be swiftly followed by the signing of an interinstitutional agreement between all the parties: parliament, the commission and the council. the negotiations will only be over at that moment. i count on parliament's support in this respect. i do not want to underestimate the degree of difficulty nor the disagreements on priorities, but this necessary debate should not delay an agreement. this is why, even before the european council, the commission proposed a review clause. i was very happy to work with president-in-office juncker and, as he said earlier, we were discussing a review clause with the member states. this means that, as we don't know exactly what the world will be like in 2013, we shouldn't have an overall debate before we approve the financial perspective. on the contrary, we should approve the financial perspective as soon as possible and then arrange a meeting later in order to adapt our budget to changing priorities and the international environment. this is wisdom itself. what we cannot use now is an overall debate on priorities as a reason or pretext for not reaching an agreement on the financial perspective. however, at the same time it is true that we should engage in a serious debate about the reform of the community budget. we must look forward. it is also true that we should have a meeting at a later stage in order to address all those important questions. this is why we should keep to the deadline for the next phase of the negotiations. if we do not do this, we could fail, and it is my duty to draw the attention of this parliament to a risk of paralysis in the european union. we must avoid that risk. even during this very difficult situation, we are continuing to take decisions. as president-in-office juncker said, after the european council we were taking decisions with our partners in the united states and canada. yesterday i was in italy for the inauguration of the european food safety authority. today the commission took important decisions on a green paper on energy efficiency and a new regime for the sugar markets. we are continuing to make decisions. i promise you that the commission feels no inhibitions about taking the decisions or initiatives that europe deserves. however, it is important now to engage the council, all partners and all institutions and to move in the same direction. i ask you not to overlook the other achievements of the european council. we have seen the endorsement of the new integrated guidelines for growth and employment and an action plan to implement the hague programme for freedom, security and justice. these two results address our key objectives of prosperity and security and the mainstream concerns of our citizens. the european council also approved guiding principles for sustainable development. this should ensure continuing improvements to the quality of life, not only for current generations but also for future ones. there was also the very important decision to confirm at the highest level at a european union summit the decisions taken by the development ministers following a commission proposal about our commitment to overseeing development aid and our commitment to africa. this was a very important step taken by the european council. what follows now? is the glass half empty or half full? as i said before, the problem is serious but we can turn it into an opportunity. sooner or later this clarification had to come and, let's face it, we now have that opportunity. we are closer to agreement on the financial perspective than many people realize. we should also remember that never in the history of the european union have financial packages been approved during the first round of negotiations. i therefore call on all parties concerned to reflect on the consequences of deadlock and to show some flexibility. i call on all the parties to show less nationalistic rhetoric and to engage in a truly european solution. (applause) i would like to thank you. the fact remains that both the luxembourg presidency in general and the european council in particular have achieved much of which we can be proud. it is true that there is still much to do. together with the members of this house, the commission will work for a future that confirms europe's capacity to do business, even if the times do not call for business as usual. we will then be able to prove that pessimists and cynics are not always right and that there are reasons for confidence in the future. i would like to conclude with a word to my friend jean-claude juncker. not only for jean-claude juncker, but also for the entire luxembourg presidency, for the minister for foreign affairs, for the minister for european affairs, for the diplomats and for the experts. i was really moved by the conviction, the determination, the enthusiasm of this whole team, which is extraordinary. on behalf of the european commission, i would like to say to you, jean-claude, and to all your collaborators, thank you for what you have done for europe. i sincerely hope that i will have the opportunity to say the same to the next president of the european council. i'll say the same thing if i mean it, i won't say the same thing if i don't mean it. the presidencies pass, the commission remains. the commission is defending the general european interest and i want to tell you that the commission, with the support and backing of this parliament, i hope, will continue to give all its sincere support to the various presidencies. the commission expects the various presidencies to show the same vocation, the same determination and the same enthusiasm for our european union. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to the president of the european council, mr jean-claude juncker, on behalf of the epp-ed group, for his great passion and conviction in guiding us through the european union in these months. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the union. (applause from the centre) we have seen the disappointment of the president of the european council on saturday morning and we have shared that disappointment with him. we hope that the day will come when we can again celebrate together, and that is our common task now. the president of parliament - and this is a sign of hope - has just recalled the soviet occupation of the three baltic states, estonia, latvia and lithuania, 65 years ago. who would have thought twenty years ago that colleagues from estonia, latvia and lithuania would be here in the european parliament today? it is a great event and that is why we must also believe in the future of our continent, even at this hour. any analysis must be based on what is now, and i agree with all those who say 'we are in a political crisis'. but we must be careful that this political crisis does not disorient us and lead us into blind activism. and that is why we must respond in the same way with determination and prudence. we believe in this europe, and because we believe in this europe, there must also be the political will to lead this europe, this european union, into a good future. but we are in a double crisis of confidence. in a crisis of confidence between different actors in the european council, and it has grown over the years. there is also a crisis of confidence in the political actors among many people in the european union. many people are moving too fast and we need to see a concerted effort to restore that trust. what's our goal? we want a strong, active and democratic european union and we oppose all those who want to make it a european free trade area. we cannot afford to lose our group! we want a strong, active, democratic european union so that we can represent our interests in the world. we are also saying this to those who today think that the axes should be re-formed. we heard of a proposal for a union between france and germany. some, on the other hand, dream of an axis between britain and germany after a possible change of government. no, ladies and gentlemen, we need good bilateral relations, and these good bilateral relations must be an offer for the whole of the european union. and it is on the basis of this goodwill that we must then act together in the european union. the treaty of nice provides for enhanced cooperation. if some countries want to go further, we can go further on many issues, such as foreign and security policy. on the constitutional treaty, we must be self-critical. i wish the president of the council every success in the referendum on 10 july in luxembourg, which is now taking place. we need to use the pause to think. we must not pause to think, but we must use this time now to think and ensure that at the end of this process of reflection, parts one and two of the constitutional treaty can become a legal and political reality. as regards the budget of the european union, we regret that there has been no result. but we are also proud to say today - and reimer böge is sitting there - that the european parliament has succeeded in making a proposal, and we call on the heads of state and government to take this as a basis for their action and to seek the necessary reforms. the european parliament has already given an answer. (applause from the centre) we need - and i say this with all seriousness - this financial perspective, especially for the countries of central and eastern europe which joined the european union on 1 may 2004. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore owe it to the new countries in the european union to put this financial perspective into practice, hopefully under the new british presidency. we in the epp-ed group will do our part to make this possible and we will be in solidarity. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have heard an emotional assessment of the luxembourg presidency. we have heard an extraordinary speech - not only extraordinary because the man who gave it is an extraordinary person, but also extraordinary in his candor. i've been in this house for 11 years. i have never before heard such a presentation of a council presidency, such a presentation of a european council, in such openness. i am grateful for this openness, because it gives this parliament the opportunity to analyse with greater knowledge what happened last weekend. a lot has happened, and - i want to repeat at the outset what you said, mr president of the council - that this was a defeat for europe. you're right about that. you went on to say that it was also a defeat for the presidency. you're wrong! the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in this matter. it may be too early to tell. but i am quite sure that there will be people after us who will say that jean-claude juncker belongs in the gallery of the very great europeans. we're grateful to you. 60 hours of negotiations and then 15 minutes of a visit from someone who participated in the negotiations. we understand some of the bitterness that was expressed in your speech. we therefore understand this, because it is indeed time for the european union to speak clearly as a result of this summit. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to bring about a change in the situation. for years, the people who have the power to act in europe - and this is the european council, this is the council of heads of state and government - have always followed the same path: success has been the success of the heads of state and government; the failure was that of the bureaucrats in brussels. the summit last weekend showed that the failure in europe today has a name: it is the particularism of leaders who believe that if everyone thinks of himself, then everyone is thought of. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the place to speak plainly. i want to commend you today mr juncker, you have spoken clearly! you've told us the truth! we must learn the consequences. an important consequence is that we first find that two of the three institutions have done their homework. the commission has presented its proposal for the financial perspective and parliament has adopted its position. the council is not able to reach agreement on the financial perspective! i note that two institutions belonging to the trilog have done what they had to do. we can discuss that now. the council has not done so, and we will wait. it's not about having people around the table who say, "i'm right". and the next one who gets the word says, "i am right, too". and the third person who gets the word says, "maybe so, but i'm right". i cannot see how these people can come to a workable result for europe. i cannot see how you, as the head of government of any country, can say: "i have very specific goals" and then by your own behaviour contribute to the destruction of the instruments needed to achieve those goals. i don't know what that means. i think that the european parliament must not accept this either. (applause from the centre) what is the financial perspective? it's about everybody moving. of course, we know that we have to promote innovation, research and technology because the viability of our continent depends on it, and because this is a key to the lisbon process. of course, we also know that we need money for this, and of course we also know that this requires a shift. but if everyone knows this, why are there no results? i would like to give you my very personal opinion on this: because once again this weekend european policy did not play the decisive role. of course, there was talk about the future of europe, but the background to most of the speeches given there was domestic policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and everyone knows that in a large continental member state agriculture plays a decisive role in elections. these are just two of many reasons, perhaps of a much wider range, which we europeans must take into account as european political implications. let us say together in this parliament that we are no longer prepared to do that, because that is how europe is being pushed to the wall! (applause from the centre) the president of the commission has made a good statement today about his role in europe, and i should like to commend him for that. yes, mr barroso, you are the guardian of the european treaties. no one will be able to turn the treaty of nice into a free trade area! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and if you want to defend european integration, you will always have the european parliament at your side. the people of europe are waiting for signals from europe. yes, we need a market; yes, we need competition inside and outside. but the people in the netherlands and france who voted 'no' did so because they are afraid that this market and competition will destroy their social security, that it will destroy what has been built up over decades. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have a chance to show where the commission stands. (applause from the centre) we have heard a great speech by a great president of the council. not only he, but the whole luxembourg team - the president of the commission has rightly said this - has done a great job. i thank you for this, mr juncker, and i thank nicolas schmit and all those who have worked with us over the last six months. it has been an extraordinary pleasure to work with the luxembourg presidency of the council. i think we all do. it's not always the case in political life that it's fun to have differences of opinion. i thank you for your speech and i think i can say this on behalf of many colleagues: i look forward to tomorrow. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, jean-claude juncker regretted that he had to step down as president of the council after only six months. if the constitution were in force, he could be elected for two and a half years. the summit may have shown how necessary this further development of the european council would have been. i am very pleased that the summit has decided not on a plan b but on a plan d. we have to make a plan b, not a plan b, which would stop ratification and renegotiate the text, but a plan d, which would continue ratification and at the same time have a debate, a great debate on europe! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a correct strategy, which i fully support. i hope that the referendum in luxembourg will succeed, because then we will have two 'yes' votes against two 'no' votes and perhaps a new signal will be given to approve this constitution. we need the debate now about what the eu is supposed to be, why we need it. the issues are obvious: the eu's role in globalisation; the ways out of the economic and employment crisis; the eu's borders and the question of how far we should expand; but also transparency and democracy within the eu. what i lacked at the summit was some idea of how to structure this debate. 25 isolated national debates are not enough. we must bring this together and achieve a synthesis at eu level. if giscard d'estaing had not proposed the congress of the peoples at the convention and the idea had been burned, i would almost think it a good idea to present an ad hoc meeting of the european parliament and the national parliaments as this platform as an instrument. i hope that the crisis will lead to a stronger europe, closer to the people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council president called for europe to show that it had grown up. the council has shown itself to be immature. it has discredited itself as a legislative body, and it is time we forced the council to go public - maybe that will help! now british prime minister blair is calling for a radical reform of agricultural policy. we're ready to go. but his demand is hypocritical, because he was one of the brakes on the last reform, he prevented the limitation and staggering of direct payments. it has undermined the link between bonuses and labour, i.e. the social link. it has prevented and not approved the transfer of funds to the second pillar, namely innovation, employment and the environment, and to rural economic development. that is to say, if he now brings agricultural policy to the table, it will be a return carriage for the demand, which we support here by a large majority, that the rebate be put on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the failure of the summit and, not least, the circumstances surrounding this failure are symptoms of the deep crisis in which we find ourselves. the reason for this crisis is that the citizens have failed us in a dramatic way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. their motives may have varied in detail. in essence, they are found throughout the european union. if we want to regain the confidence of the citizens, we must organize a reversal, a change in european policy. a few comments: first of all, we don't need a constitution. the very word 'constitution' evokes a european superstate which no one wants and which we do not even aspire to. what we urgently need is a founding treaty which clarifies how decisions are taken in the european union, and the relationship between the institutions - council, parliament and commission. we need the charter of fundamental rights in the form agreed upon. these are the core elements of what we need and what will enable us to properly organise and manage a union of 25 or more. we must make enlargement understandable and tangible to the citizens. that means that europe needs borders. the enlargement process must be suspended until we have consolidated the most recent enlargement. and another note: most european citizens would regard the start of accession negotiations with turkey on 3 october as an affront. we need a privileged partnership with turkey, but not membership. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission must consider the extent to which the rules are to be made in brussels and where the member states' competence begins.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the last 15 years there has been talk of a statute for members of the european parliament and, as you know, many initiatives have been taken by your parliament and the council respectively to achieve such a statute. the status under discussion today was clarified during the belgian presidency in the second half of 2001, when parliament and the council were very close to reaching an agreement. at that time, the failure was linked to the reimbursement of actual costs and taxation. subsequently, no progress was made and it was during the italian presidency that mr rothley presented a new draft report which also had a good chance of succeeding. mr rothley had included in his report a solution which could reconcile the council and parliament. in particular, your parliament had committed itself to the reimbursement of members' actual expenses, which would come into force alongside the new statute. the rothley report was submitted to your committee on legal affairs on 21 january 2004. unfortunately, on 26 january the general affairs council failed to reach a political agreement, in particular because of the budgetary implications of the project. in november 2004, in his speech to the european council, president josep borrell, and you yourself, mr president, indicated that the european parliament was prepared to show flexibility on this matter in order to reach an agreement in the short term. he also stressed to the european council that parliament could not formally present a new proposal without the assurance that it would be accepted by the council and that informal consultations on the subject were therefore necessary. at the end of 2004, under the dutch presidency, such a consultation took place in the presence of the future luxembourg presidency and it was agreed to try to reach an agreement during the first half of 2005. on 12 january 2005, the president-in-office of the council, in his speech to the european parliament presenting the programme of the luxembourg presidency, confirmed the intention of the presidency to bring the negotiations on this dossier to a successful conclusion, in cooperation with the whole of parliament and its president. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after 26 years of electing the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, there is still no uniform status for members of the european parliament. that is why today and tomorrow, with the vote, could be decisive, since at last the council and the european parliament seem to be able to move forward with a decision. i particularly welcome, mr president, the efforts of the rapporteur and chairman of the committee on legal affairs, mr giuseppe gargani, and of the members of that committee, who, in an extremely short time, have indeed succeeded in presenting a report which can satisfy the council to a large extent. it is also true that perhaps the presidency could have devoted even more time to this matter. we thought we could solve the financial problems at the same time. if we had known, we would have left the financial perspective to the next presidency and focused more on the status. i would like to thank you, mr president, your cabinet and your general secretariat for the efforts you have made in maintaining a regular formal and informal dialogue with our presidency. you have shown great courage and tenacity on this issue which has not always been easy. i would also like to thank all the other members who have patiently, sometimes discreetly, helped us to work on this difficult and sensitive subject, which is liable to be the subject of all the demagoguery. i have seen proof of this this afternoon, here in parliament. the council, for its part, kept its promise by trying to reach consensus on a number of elements which would lead to agreement on the draft statute. i have sent your president these details by letter of 6 june, the most important of which relate to remuneration, the principle of reimbursement of travel and staff expenses on the basis of actual costs and the principle of the european parliament, and therefore the community budget, paying contributions for pensions. the council can only rejoice that, thanks to our close cooperation, all these elements have been incorporated in the final report which is before you today. i believe that what we are about to decide is in the direction of greater transparency, a requirement that is pervasive in all speeches, yours and ours. it is a basic principle inherent in all european policies that has been respected, that of non-discrimination, including the principle that for the same work, the same wage and remuneration is required. by letter of 16 june i expressed to president borrell my satisfaction at the broadly positive vote of the members of the committee on legal affairs on the report you have presented to us. i also pointed out that the amendments adopted by the committee are acceptable to the presidency, except for the one in the final report, in recital 12 of parliament's decision, which mr gargani has just mentioned. we believe that such a recital is a matter for national laws or regulations. nothing, absolutely nothing can prevent a government from paying a supplement, an allowance, call it what you will, to its members of the european parliament to put them on the same level as its national members. but this is a national matter, a matter of national regulation, not a matter of european law. european law must ensure that there is equality here in the european context. so when we talk about subsidiarity, let us apply it for once. it is true that this arrangement has been discussed between the various parties. we had exchanged letters which i believe have some political value and which are part of a sort of code of confidence between the presidencies of the council and parliament. these letters made it clear that there was no objection to such agreements or national regulations. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that we can find a satisfactory solution to this last outstanding question - which is therefore the subject of recital 12 - for the council as well. the adoption of a community act, an act of the european union, should not give the impression that on the one hand it creates a status and on the other hand it opens the door to a renationalisation of that status. that is why we do not want this amendment in recital 12. as regards the procedure, once the report by mr gargani, together with the resolution and the decision, has been approved by you, the dossier will be submitted to coreper on 30 june for approval, in accordance with article 190 (5) of the treaty. i hope that this procedure, which is very close to the goal, will have a positive outcome. i believe that by doing this, by adopting this statute, we are putting an end to a situation which is completely incomprehensible to the citizens as well. we are strengthening, as you said, mr president, the credibility of the european union, the credibility of your parliament, the credibility of the status of the member of parliament, and also of the council, since the council will finally have given its consent to this status. i think the presidency has shown a certain commitment, perhaps not always enough - i accept the criticism - but what we want today is to reach a conclusion and to decide. finally, as regards the question raised by mr gargani on the immunities and privileges of members of the european parliament, we attach great importance to it and fully understand your parliament's concern to settle this question. the council agrees to adopt a clear statement on this and we hope to be able to settle this question of immunities and privileges in the near future.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i sincerely welcome the efforts of the rapporteur mr gargani, parliament and the luxembourg presidency, in finding a solution agreeable to all parties on the members’ statute. the commission gave its opinion on the original proposal for a statute in june 2003. it was favourable and made two general observations. first, we pointed out that the provisions in the draft statute relating to the privileges and immunities of members and governed by primary law could not be amended in an act based on article 190 of the ec treaty. in this new draft these provisions have been removed. our second comment concerned the financial implications of the statute and these concerns have also been addressed. we have seemed very close to agreement before, only to have everyone’s hopes dashed at the last minute. i sincerely hope that this time the statute will finally be approved.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. my group agrees that we need a statute for members of parliament. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. for this reason too there will be no uniform voting procedure in my group. we have always called for - and we have underlined this in our amendments to the rothley report - that the amount of travel expenses reimbursement should be equal to the actual travel expenses incurred, since transparency is the first principle. reimbursement in excess of the actual costs shall not be accepted. moreover, there is already the possibility of reimbursing travel expenses in excess, as is already the practice of german members of parliament in the context of their voluntary commitment. as regards the pension fund, we are divided on the level of the members' share in relation to the parliament's share. in any case, we support the basic principle that members of parliament should contribute to social security schemes like other citizens and should also contribute to the financing of the pension fund, even though we know that this is not a solidarity pension scheme but a pension fund. the same applies to the contribution to accident insurance. we should always bear in mind in our debate that parliamentary contributions are of course also necessary because we get our salary from the taxpayer. we are unanimous in our support of the principle of equal pay for equal work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. the introduction of a uniform level of pay is therefore right. of course, the amount of the fine is debatable. and it goes without saying that members who receive a uniform salary must also be taxed in the same way, i.e. according to european tax law. if member states decide to add the difference between the european and national tax rates, they are entitled to do so, provided that double taxation is avoided.
the luxembourg presidency has succeeded in reaching agreement on the statute for members of the european parliament. the statute of members can remove many grey areas and inadequate regulations. i therefore believe that there is no point in refusing to accept this compromise again. european rules bring more transparency to citizens than 25 or 27 national rules and various compensation mechanisms, both permitted and not. i am aware that this compromise also has its obvious shortcomings. the pension scheme (article 14) remains a key problem. we must create a fund with a share of the members' own money. we have now lost our amendment no 1 to that. i am convinced, however, that the way to a solution below the level of the statute is still open and i will continue to advocate such a system, which must complement the statute. the members' statute finally opens the way for us to have an assistant statute. parliament must now bring this work to a successful conclusion as quickly as possible. (the sitting was suspended at 8.25 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not as the shadow rapporteur for my group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr michael cashman, and all the colleagues from the other groups and, of course, the luxembourg presidency for the work we have done together. the groups in this house have made an impressive demonstration of the possibility of cooperative and effective cooperation between themselves and with the council. for example, at the beginning of our work we had the following situation: a third country national wants to enter the eu on a visa. however, he was refused entry because he was unable to present all the necessary documents at the border crossing point. this refusal of entry would have resulted in a passport entry documenting that the traveller has been refused entry into the territory of the eu. would such a person be able to travel to the united states, canada, or australia with such a passport entry? i don't think so, though. i would therefore like to stress that after lengthy negotiations we have succeeded in establishing a right of appeal in the regulation, which in the event of an unjustified refusal of entry entails, in particular, the correction of all the remarks indicating a refusal of entry into the eu. we have made further substantial improvements for third country nationals. border controls must respect human dignity and discrimination for whatever reason is not allowed. in short, we have all reached a common solution, which is that entry checks at the external borders will be much more hospitable.
member of the commission. mr president, with the positive vote of the council common position, the european parliament can clear the way to a fruitful conclusion on what has been a long, intense and yet constructive reform debate. the commission indicated the need and the main avenues for improving the functioning of the stability and growth pact in its communication of 3 september 2004. after several rounds of discussion, the ecofin council met again on 20 march, reached agreement and adopted its report on improving the implementation of the stability and growth pact. on 22 march 2005, the european council endorsed the report stating that it updates and complements the stability and growth pact. the main aim of the report is to enhance governance and the national ownership of the eu fiscal framework by strengthening its economic underpinning, while safeguarding the sustainability of public finances and promoting growth. we hold the view that, overall, the agreement is balanced and provides an appropriate basis for restoring national ownership of the fiscal framework. if fully implemented it has the prospect of reinforcing fiscal discipline and growth support of fiscal policies. on 20 april 2005, the earliest possible date following the agreement, the commission adopted the two proposals amending the two council regulations – (ec) no 1466/97 and (ec) no 1467/97 – which underpin the pact. parliament and the council have immediately begun discussing the commission proposals in a constructive spirit. all parties strove to bring the process to a successful conclusion swiftly. i would like to express the commission’s gratitude, in particular to the parliament for its cooperative attitude, thereby making it possible to finalise the amendment procedure during the luxembourg presidency. earlier this month, the parliament adopted at first reading a number of amendments to the commission proposals. the council, taking account of parliament’s opinion, agreed on its common position shortly thereafter. in its position however, council could not agree on taking on board any of the amendments proposed by the parliament. nevertheless, the changes adopted by the council with respect to the commission proposal go in the direction of further clarifying the implementation of the preventive part of the stability and growth pact in line with the overall thrust of the amendments tabled by parliament. other changes envisaged by parliament, namely those in the statistical field, have been considered by the council in the finalisation of the legal acts directly linked to the statistics of public finances. in the view of the commission, the inclusion of some of the amendments tabled by parliament could have strengthened the proposed regulation further. however, after careful consideration, the commission decided to accept the council common position. overall, the revisions made to the stability and growth pact are balanced; they will give the pact a new vigour and provide a better framework for an economically sensible implementation of the rules. the commission is committed to a balanced and rigorous implementation of the reformed pact. it continues to closely monitor the budgeting situation in all member states. it will use its right of initiative where appropriate, as it has done in recent days. as you know, the commission decided to initiate excessive deficit procedures for italy and portugal. we expect the procedures to be seen as a means of supporting the fiscal consolidation needed in both countries to return to high economic growth. a cooperative approach to ensure the smooth implementation of the excessive deficit procedure will contribute to the credibility of the renewed framework and of the overall functioning of emu in this challenging period.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is perhaps symptomatic that the last debate before the reform of the stability and growth pact is taking place at this particular time. he is slowly being carried to his grave, away from the public eye. i would like to thank mr othmar karas for his report and for his attempt to reconcile the positions of the council and the commission on parliament. i find it significant that it is precisely in times like these that the council cannot agree on all the important issues and only reaches agreement when it comes to further relaxing the stability and growth pact. and this at a time when the euro needs a stable framework, when it is important not to fall into debt-building with corresponding inflation, and when the commission in particular needs to be strengthened! that is why i regret that the commission has agreed to this, because the fundamental evil of the pact - that the sinners are on trial themselves - has not been addressed. the attempt to make this a little more concrete, both in the control and in the interpretation of what the council has decided, should have been supported by the council and also supported by the commission. we shall now see how the commission will act in the first proceedings against italy. we can only encourage them to continue to fight for a reliable framework for the euro, for the pact for the euro, for the single currency - and if necessary against the member states. in the last commission there were commissioners who did that, and i would encourage you to continue to fight for the pact and the spirit that it originally had.
prime minister of the united kingdom. mr president, colleagues, distinguished guests, it is an honour to be here in the european parliament today. with your permission, i will come back after each european council during the uk presidency and report to you. in addition, i will be happy to consult parliament before each council so as to have the benefit of the views of the european parliament before any council deliberations. this is a timely address. whatever else people disagree upon in europe today, they at least agree on one point: europe is in the midst of a profound debate about its future. i want to talk to you plainly today about this debate, the reasons for it and how to resolve it. in every crisis there is an opportunity. there is one for europe now, if we have the courage to take it. the debate over europe should not be conducted by trading insults or in terms of personality. it should be an open and frank exchange of ideas. at the outset, i want to describe clearly how i define the debate and the disagreement underlying it. the issue is not between a ‘free market’ europe and a social europe, between those who want to retreat to a common market and those who believe in europe as a political project. this is not just a misrepresentation. it is designed to intimidate those who want to change europe by representing the desire for change as a betrayal of the european ideal, to try to shut off serious debate about europe’s future by claiming that the very insistence on debate is to embrace the anti-europe. it is a mindset i have fought against all my political life. ideals survive through change. they die through inertia in the face of challenge. (applause)i am a passionate pro-european. i always have been. (mixed reactions)i was wondering whether this was going to be a lively forum, and i am delighted to see that it is. (laughter)it is called democracy and long may it be so. (applause)the first time i voted was in 1975, in the british referendum on membership, and i voted ‘yes’. shortly before the british election in 1983, when i was the last candidate in the united kingdom to be selected, and when my party had a policy of withdrawing from europe, i told the selection conference that i disagreed with the policy. some thought i had lost the selection, some perhaps wish i had. (laughter)but i then helped to change that policy in the 1980s and i am proud of that change. since becoming prime minister, i have signed the european social chapter; helped, along with france, to create the modern european defence policy; have played my part in the amsterdam, nice and rome treaties. this is a union of values, of solidarity between nations and people ... (applause)… of not just a common market in which we trade, but a common political space in which we live as citizens. it always will be. i believe in europe as a political project. i believe in europe with a strong and caring social dimension. i would never accept a europe that was simply an economic market. (applause)to say that this is the issue is to escape the real debate and to hide in the comfort zone of the things we have always said to each other in times of difficulty. there is not some division between the europe necessary to succeed economically and social europe. political europe and economic europe do not live in separate rooms. the purpose of social europe and economic europe should be to sustain each other. the purpose of political europe should be to promote the democratic and effective institutions to develop policy in these two spheres and across the board where we want and need to cooperate in our mutual interest. but the purpose of political leadership is to get the policies right for today’s world. for 50 years european leaders have done that. we talk of crisis; let us first talk of achievement. when the war ended, europe was in ruins. today the european union stands as a monument to political achievement: almost 50 years of peace, 50 years of prosperity, 50 years of progress. think of it, let us all be grateful for it and be proud of what has happened in europe in these past 50 years. (applause) the broad sweep of history is on the side of the european union. countries round the world are coming together today because in collective cooperation they increase individual strength. until the second half of the 20th century, individual european nations had, for centuries, dominated the world, colonised large parts of it, and fought wars against each other for world supremacy. then, out of the carnage of the second world war, political leaders had the vision to realise that those days were gone. today’s world does not diminish that vision: it demonstrates its prescience. the united states is the world’s only superpower. but within a few decades china and india will be the world’s largest economies, each of them with populations three times that of the whole of the european union. the idea of europe, united and working together, is essential today for our nations to be strong enough to keep our place in this world. but now, almost 50 years on, we have to renew. there is no shame in that. all institutions must do it, and we can, as well, but only if we remarry the european ideals we believe in to the modern world in which we live. if we do not, if europe defaulted to euroscepticism, or if european nations, faced with the immense challenge we have in front of us, decided to huddle together, hoping we can avoid globalisation, shrink away from confronting the changes around us, take refuge in the present policies of europe as if by constantly repeating them, we would by the very act of repetition make them more relevant, then we risk failure. failure on a grand, strategic scale. this is not a time to accuse those who want europe to change of betraying europe. it is a time to recognise that only by change will europe recover its strength, its relevance, its idealism and therefore its support amongst the people. (applause)as ever, the people are ahead of the politicians. we always think as a political class that the people, unconcerned with the daily obsession of politics, may not understand it, may not see its subtleties and its complexities. ultimately, people always see politics more clearly than we do, precisely because they are not obsessed with it on a daily basis. the issue, therefore, is not about the idea of the european union. it is about modernisation and policy. it is not a debate about how to abandon europe, but how to make it do what it was set up to do: improve the lives of people. and right now, they are not convinced. consider this. for four years europe conducted a debate over our new constitution, two years of it in the convention. it was a detailed, careful piece of work setting out the new rules to govern a europe of 25, and then in time 27, 28 and more member states. the constitution was endorsed by all governments. it was supported by all leaders. it was then comprehensively rejected in referendums in two founding member states, in the case of the netherlands by over 60 per cent. the reality is that, as we speak today at least, to secure a ‘yes’ vote in a referendum in most member states would be difficult. there are two possible explanations. one is that people studied the constitution and disagreed with its precise articles. i doubt that was the basis of the majority ‘no’. this was not an issue of drafting or specific textual disagreement. the other explanation is that the constitution became merely the vehicle for the people to register a wider and deeper discontent with the state of affairs in europe. i believe this to be the correct analysis. if so, it is not a crisis of political institutions. it is a crisis of political leadership. (applause) people in europe are posing hard questions to us. they worry about globalisation, about job security, about pensions, about living standards. they see not just their economy, but also their society changing around them. traditional communities are broken up. ethnic patterns change. family life is under strain as families struggle to balance work and home. we are living through a profound era of upheaval and change. look at our children and the technology they use and the jobs market they face. the world is unrecognisable from that which we experienced as students twenty or thirty years ago. when such change occurs, moderate people must give leadership. if they do not, the extremes gain traction on the political process. it happens within a nation. it is happening in europe now. just reflect. the laeken declaration which launched the constitution was designed, and i quote, ‘to bring europe closer to the people’. did it? the lisbon agenda was launched in 2000 with the ambition of making europe, and i quote, ‘the most competitive place to do business in the world by 2010’. we are half way through that period. has it succeeded? i have sat through council conclusions after council conclusions describing how we are reconnecting europe to the people, but are we? it is time to give ourselves a reality check and to receive the wake-up call. the people are blowing the trumpets around the city walls. are we listening? have we the political will to go out and meet them so that they regard our leadership collectively as part of the solution, and not part of the problem? (applause) that is the context in which the budget debate should be set. people say we need the budget to restore europe’s credibility. of course we do, but it should be the right budget. it should not be abstracted from the debate about europe’s crisis, it should be part of the answer to it. i want to say a word about last friday’s summit. there have been suggestions that i was not willing to compromise on the uk rebate; that i only raised common agricultural policy reform at the last minute; that i expected to renegotiate the cap last friday night. in fact i am the only british leader that has ever said i would put the rebate on the table. i have never said we should end the cap now or renegotiate it overnight. such a position would be absurd. any change must take account of the legitimate needs of farming communities and must happen over time. i have said simply two things: that we cannot agree a new financial perspective that does not at least set out a process that leads to a more rational budget … (applause)… and that this must allow such a budget to shape the second half of the perspective up to 2013. otherwise it will be 2014 before any fundamental change is agreed, let alone implemented. in the meantime, of course britain will pay its full share of enlargement. i might point out that on any basis we would remain the second highest net contributor to the european union and have in this financial perspective paid billions more than similar-sized countries. that is actually the context for this debate on the budget. so what would a different policy agenda for europe look like? first, it would modernise our social model. again, some have suggested that i want to abandon europe’s social model. but tell me, what type of social model is it that has 20 million unemployed across europe; … (applause)… that has productivity rates falling behind those of the united states; that is allowing more science graduates to be produced by india than by europe; and that on any relative index of a modern economy – skills, research and development, patents, information technology – is going down and not up? india will expand its biotechnology sector fivefold in the next five years. china has trebled its spending on research and development in the last five years. of the top 20 universities in the world today, only two are now in europe. the purpose of our social model should be to enhance our ability to compete, to help our people cope with globalisation, to let them embrace its opportunities and to avoid the dangers. of course we need a social europe, but it has to be a social europe that works. and we have been told how to do it. the kok report of 2004 shows the way: investment in knowledge; in skills; in active labour market policies; in science parks and innovation; in higher education; in urban regeneration; and in help for small businesses. this is modern social policy, not regulation and job protection that may save some jobs for a time at the expense of many jobs in the future. (applause)and since this is a day for demolishing caricatures, let me demolish one other: the idea that britain is in the grip of some extreme anglo-saxon market philosophy that tramples on the poor and disadvantaged. the present british government has introduced the new deal for the unemployed, the largest jobs programme in europe that has seen long-term youth unemployment virtually abolished in my country. it has increased investment in our public services more than any other european country in the past five years. we needed to do this, it is true, but we did it. we have introduced britain’s first minimum wage. we have regenerated our cities, we have lifted almost one million children out of poverty, two million pensioners out of acute hardship and are now embarked on the most radical expansion of childcare, maternity and paternity rights in our country’s history. we have done all this on the basis of, and not at the expense of, a strong economy. so that is the first thing, to modernise our social model. second, let the budget reflect these realities. the sapir report shows the way. published by the european commission in 2003, it sets out in clear detail what a modern european budget would look like. let us put it into practice. but a modern budget for europe is not one that ten years from now is still spending 40 per cent of its money on the common agricultural policy. (applause) third, implement the lisbon agenda. on jobs, labour market participation, school leavers, and life-long learning we set targets at lisbon, but frankly, at present we are nowhere near meeting those targets by 2010. the lisbon agenda told us what to do, let us do it. fourth, and here i tread carefully, get a macroeconomic framework for europe that is disciplined but also flexible. it is not for me to comment on the eurozone, but i just say this: if we agreed real progress on economic reform, if we demonstrated real seriousness on structural change, then people would perceive reform of macro policy as sensible and rational, not a product of fiscal laxity but of common sense. we need such reform urgently in europe if europe is to grow. (applause) after the economic and social challenges, then let us confront another set of linked issues: crime, security and immigration. crime is now crossing borders now more easily than ever before. we estimate that in the uk alone organised crime is costing us gbp 20 billion a year. migration has doubled in the past 20 years. much of it is healthy and welcome, but it must be managed. illegal immigration is an issue for all our nations and a human tragedy for many thousands of people. it is estimated that 70 per cent of illegal immigrants have their passage facilitated by organised criminal groups. then there is the repugnant practice of human trafficking, whereby organised gangs move people from one region to another with the intention of exploiting them when they arrive. between 600 000 and 800 000 people are trafficked globally each year and every year over 100 000 women are victims of people trafficking in the european union. again a relevant justice and home affairs agenda would focus on these issues: implementing the european union action plan on counter-terrorism, which has huge potential to improve law enforcement as well as addressing the radicalisation and recruitment of terrorists; cross-border intelligence and policing on organised crime; developing proposals to hit the people and drug traffickers hard in opening up their bank accounts, harassing their activities, arresting their leading members and bringing them to justice; getting returns agreements for failed asylum-seekers and illegal immigrants from neighbouring countries and others; developing biometric technology to make europe’s borders secure. all of these are issues we can concentrate upon. then there is the whole area of common foreign and security policy. we should be agreeing practical measures to enhance european defence capability, to be prepared to take on more peacekeeping and enforcement missions. we should develop the capability, with nato, or where nato does not want to be engaged then outside it, to be able to intervene quickly and effectively in support of conflict resolution. look at the numbers today in our european armies and the expenditure we make on defence. do they really answer the strategic needs of today? such a defence policy is a necessary part of an effective foreign policy. but even without it, we should be seeing how we can make the influence of the european union count. when the european union agreed recently to a doubling of aid, and in particular a doubling of aid to africa, it was an immediate boost not just for that troubled continent, but for european cooperation. we are world leaders in development today, we should be proud of it. (applause)we should be leading the way on promoting a new multilateral trade agreement which will increase trade for all, especially the poorest nations. (applause)we are leading the debate on climate change and developing pan-european policies to tackle it. thanks to javier solana, europe has started to make its presence felt in the middle east peace process. my point is very simple: a strong europe would be an active player in foreign policy, a good partner of course to the united states, but also capable of demonstrating our own capacity to shape and move the world forward. (applause) such a europe – its economy in the process of being modernised and its security enhanced by clear action within our borders and beyond – would be a confident europe. it would be a europe confident enough to see enlargement not as a threat, as if membership were a zero sum game in which old members lose as new members gain, but an extraordinary, historic opportunity to build a greater and more powerful union. be under no illusion. if we stop enlargement or shut out its natural consequences it would not, in the end, save one job, keep one firm in business, prevent one delocalisation. for a time it might, but not for long. in the meantime, europe would become more narrow, more introspective and those who garner support would be those not in the traditions of european idealism but in the traditions of outdated nationalism and xenophobia. i tell you in all frankness, it is a contradiction to be in favour of liberalising europe’s membership but against opening up its economy. if we set out that clear direction, if we then combine it with a commission – as this one under josé manuel barroso’s leadership is fully capable of doing – that is prepared to send back some of the unnecessary regulation, peel back some of the bureaucracy and become a champion of a global, outward-looking competitive europe, then it will not be hard to capture the imagination and support of the people of europe. in our presidency, we will try to take forward the budget deal; to resolve some of the hard dossiers like the services directive and working time directive; to carry out the union’s obligations to those like turkey and croatia that wait in hope of a future as part of europe; and to conduct this debate about the future of europe in an open, inclusive way, giving our own views strongly but fully respectful of the views of others. there is only one thing i ask: do not let us kid ourselves that this debate is unnecessary; that if only we can assume business as usual, people will sooner or later relent and acquiesce in europe as it is, not as they want it to be. in my time as prime minister, i have found that the hard part is not taking the decision, it is spotting when it has to be taken. it is understanding the difference between the challenges that have to be managed and those that have to be confronted and overcome. this is such a moment of decision for europe. the people of europe are speaking to us. they are posing the questions. they are wanting our leadership and it time we gave it to them. (loud and sustained applause)
president of the commission. mr president, president of the council, honourable members of the european parliament, we have entered a turbulent period in european politics and last week’s difficult european council simply reflects that fact. if nothing else, last week’s meeting of european leaders established a need for the new political consensus that i called for in this very chamber some time ago; a consensus that is vital if we are to avoid all ideological confrontations and paralysis; a consensus that is vital if we are to deliver on our programme of prosperity, solidarity and security. the way to reconnect europe to its citizens is by delivering solutions to the concrete challenges they face. prime minister blair, your presidency is taking place at a decisive moment for europe. saying this has become a cliché, but this time it happens to be true. this has important implications for the responsibility you are about to take on. it also raises high expectations. the united kingdom’s record of pragmatism and results-oriented action will be put to the test in the coming six months. prime minister blair, you are a statesman of enormous experience and conviction and you have confirmed today your commitment to europe as a political project. i therefore have every confidence that you will lead an inclusive, constructive debate on what europe can do for its citizens and create the consensus required for the urgent decisions that europe needs. i am greatly encouraged that achieving this new consensus and playing an active role during the period of reflection called for by the european council are priorities for the incoming uk presidency. as i outlined here yesterday, the commission will also fully live up to the special role it has been given for this debate on the future of europe. you will recall the meetings i proposed with all member states – including parliaments, social partners, civil society and young people – to listen and share ideas. a strategy paper will draw on the results of this debate and tackle fundamental questions about the future of europe. this will feed into next june’s european council under the austrian presidency, where we will reassess the situation. i am sure the european parliament will play a vital role in all this. as 50 years of history have taught us, the day-to-day business of the european union continues, even during one of its periodic crises – and so it should. it is crucial that we address the core issues that help to define the europe our citizens want. but we must not get lost in a period of narrow introspection. it is by actions, not words, that we will win back public trust and confidence. there is certainly plenty of business to be getting on with, as prime minister blair has just made clear. the goals and priorities he has outlined for the uk presidency over the next six months closely match those of the european commission and he can count on our support and advice in working towards them. i wish to take this opportunity to highlight one or two of them in particular. economic renewal and reform remain the cornerstone of this commission. the next six months will see the launch of concrete steps to turn the revitalised lisbon agenda into reality. the mid-term review of the lisbon agenda is behind us. now is the time for action at both european and national level. member states will present their national reform programmes this october. these will set out in detail the principal measures they are taking to support our programme for growth and jobs. the commission, for its part, will present a community reform programme over the summer. this will set out the different priority actions, both legislative and financial, that need to be adopted or decided upon at european level in support of the lisbon agenda. naturally, our ambitions on lisbon will be tempered to a greater or lesser extent by the final outcome on the negotiations on the financial perspectives. it is regrettable that the heaviest cuts to the current negotiating box fall on precisely that heading which most supports lisbon-related policies. that would not have happened if the ‘one per cent club’ of countries did not fight to reduce europe’s ambitions. (applause) but there is now a real urgency to reach an agreement to avoid paralysis in the union beyond 2006, a paralysis which will have a negative effect on our policies and on member states, particularly the new ones. the new members of the european union expect concrete signals of our solidarity and not just words. that is why we must make further efforts on the existing proposals and the work of the luxembourg presidency. this does not mean that we should abandon the search for a better-balanced budget, reflecting a good compromise between existing spending on our tried and tested policies, in particular cohesion and our new policy agenda for growth and jobs. that is why i called for a review clause even before the european council. we need a review clause because we cannot know exactly what the world will be like in 2013. but we cannot wait for 2013. given the urgency, it is not reasonable to put everything into question now. what is reasonable is to approve the financial perspectives now, working on the basis of the luxembourg presidency, and accept a review clause during the period of those financial perspectives … (applause)… so that we can adapt the priorities, the structure of expenditure and the structure of resources to the changing circumstances. responsibility now lies with the uk presidency to ensure that this is brought to a rapid conclusion, and the commission is ready to work with it and other member states to do this. one core area of the lisbon agenda is better regulation. it is not by chance that the first major commission initiative to implement the revised lisbon strategy was the march communication on better regulation for growth and jobs. in that context, we have called for closer collaboration between the european union and member states. the uk presidency’s contribution will be essential to the success of this process. we also need this parliament and the council of ministers to make renewed efforts to ensure the quality and workability of the rules you adopt. a first target must be agreement next month on a common approach to impact assessment across all three institutions. in our bid to cut down on red tape and unnecessary administrative burdens, we are now reviewing proposals that were tabled by preceding commissions but which have not yet been adopted by the legislators. our objective is to ensure that pending proposals are in line with our lisbon priorities. some 200 pending proposals are under examination. in early autumn we will conclude whether these should remain on the table, be amended or simply thrown out. finally, in october the commission will present the next phase of its simplification programme setting out a work programme for 2006-2007. another priority i would like to pick out from the many priorities jostling for attention is africa. i have always said that africa should be a flagship issue of the commission. we got off to a good start with our april package of proposals aimed at accelerating european union progress towards the millennium development goals and giving priority to sub-saharan africa. i regret that the european council’s agreement to our proposals went unnoticed in all the drama of last week. this agreement provides the uk presidency with a solid basis for defending the european union’s position in the important events which mark 2005 as the year of development, particularly the united nations summit in september. i wish to congratulate the uk on making africa a priority for its european union and g8 presidencies, as this will give a welcome extra boost to ongoing activities at european union level. this autumn, for example, the commission will present a european union strategy for africa which will put flesh on the bones of its focus on africa. this focus aims to accelerate european union action in three key areas: governance, interconnection and equity. in order to give a decisive incentive for the reform of africa’s governance, the commission proposes to support the implementation of reforms triggered by the africa peer review mechanism. the commission also proposes a replenishment of the peace facility so as to provide the african union with the necessary financial muscle to cope with africa’s conflicts. we are already supporting the african union mission in darfur, for example. i am pleased that the uk presidency will maintain the momentum also on climate change. this is a top issue for the european union. not only must we live up to our commitments under the kyoto protocol, we must also start intensifying discussions on the international climate policy regime post-2012 and we must engage our main partners in that direction. a post-2012 framework must build on five elements: the participation of all major emitting nations; the use of market-based instruments; the inclusion of more sectors, such as international aviation and shipping; the development and use of new technologies and support to enable the poorest and worst-affected countries to adapt effectively to climate change. december’s united nations conference on climate change in montreal will be an important staging-post in this debate. also in december – and this is the last priority i should like to touch upon – is the wto ministerial meeting in hong kong. it is crucial that we spare no effort in making this a success. only then can we hope to bring the doha development agenda to a speedy and successful conclusion, which is the key to greater prosperity, not only for our citizens but also for those in developing countries. the uk presidency will see the launch of a period of reflection called for by the european council. we must look within ourselves for a new consensus and strive to regain the confidence of our citizens, but we must also look outwards towards our global responsibilities and opportunities. we must be a generous europe, a europe of solidarity, a europe of values as well as markets. my europe – the europe i want to be part of – is big enough to do both these things. the europe we want is a europe where we have both economic and political integration. we believe in europe as a political project. i hope the uk presidency will make an important contribution to a political europe and a dynamic europe. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr prime minister and future president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! we heard yesterday an important speech by the outgoing president of the european council, jean-claude juncker! we have heard a very important speech today, the speech of the current british prime minister and future president of the european council. i would also like to thank the president of the commission for his speech yesterday and today. i have been a member of this parliament since 1979 and i must tell you that in those years there has never been such an intense debate on the future model of the european union as yesterday and today. this is a victory for democracy, this is a victory for parliamentarism, this is a victory for the people of europe, because the public can now also participate in our debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the debates yesterday and today have been of great importance! (applause from the centre) it must also be the case that the respective presidents of the european council justify themselves before the european parliament when they have failed, as they did last weekend. the failure of the financial question was not tragic in itself, but it has exacerbated the crisis by adding to the failed referendums. we insist that the great debates on the future should not be held behind closed doors in the european council, but here in the centre of the representatives of the peoples of the european union, here in the european parliament. this is how it's gonna be in the future! (applause from the centre) mr president-in-office of the council, you are faced with a huge and difficult task. you spoke of respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not want new axes between the great states of europe, we want every country, every citizen, to be taken seriously, because this is our common europe. we want a strong europe, a strong european union, a europe of the people. that is our goal, and we will never deviate from it! (applause from the centre) we therefore welcome the fact that you have stated at the beginning of your remarks that your model is not a return to a free trade area. if you follow your words with deeds, if your practical work shows that you want a common europe, then we will be on your side. as far as the reform of european policies is concerned, you will be more credible if you leave no doubt about your european vocation, and i ask you to make this clear during your presidency! (applause from the centre) now we have to solve the crisis of trust we're in. we must regain the trust of the actors in the european council and the trust of the citizens. we must therefore translate into legal and political reality what is in the constitution, our common values and the decision-making processes we need to solve the questions of the future. i ask that we all take this pause not as a pause in itself but as a pause to reflect on how we can make this european union capable of acting for the future, also on a legal and therefore political basis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was quite a stir in the european council. the european parliament has made a proposal on the financial perspective with reimer böge: if you follow this, you have a chance of compromise! mr. prime minister, you are the prime minister of the labour party. our friend john major was the british prime minister in 1992 who managed to create a financial perspective for the whole of the european union, then the european community. i wish you the same success as the conservative john major in 1992 as labour prime minister. (applause from the centre) now for the last point. mr. president, if you'll just give me a few more seconds. you said we had to take the civilians. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so let's think about the borders of the european union. not every country that wants to join the european union should be accepted into the european union, because we could lose the identity of europe. let us build europe together! mr president, it is now 10 o'clock in brussels, but in the united kingdom the clocks are a little different, it is 9 o'clock. you got up early this morning. let us always get up early so that we can build europe! but we must also be rested, we must act with discretion. we say: our vision remains europe! if you make that happen, we'll be right there with you. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr. prime minister, i thank you for your frankness. it was a very heartwarming speech, and i know you're a man who can tolerate heartwarming words. i will begin with a word of kindly frankness: john major may have been a great briton, but the fact that you have beaten him is a pleasure in a special way. (applause from the centre) in addition to your presidency of the council, mr blair, another major european event is beginning today, which we should not forget: the tour de france is about to begin. and when i think of the tour de france and i apply that to britain, i have to say that britain has always been a bit at the end of the main field in recent years. when i think of schengen, when i think of the euro, britain has always been, so to speak, a little bit ahead of the broomstick. now, prime minister, you must lead the peloton, and you must do it in a mountain stage! we're just before alpe d'huez and i think you should consider that the winner of the tour gets the yellow jersey if he goes the whole distance, if he wins all the stages. today is the prologue. the prologue was promising, and let's talk about that prologue, and listen to what you said. yes, you are right, mr prime minister, it is time for reform and time for change. that's right, you're right. i have heard you say that it is not the time to accuse those who want to change europe of treason. that's right! but this is not the time to put those who want to defend our european social model in a museum. change is essential if we are to improve the living conditions of our people. and you are right: europe needs more flexibility, europe needs more competitiveness both internally and externally. but europe needs this greater flexibility and this greater competitiveness as a basic condition for a condition which no one can do without. the growth that is created must create jobs, but not just for the sake of jobs. jobs must be decent jobs, they must be safe, they must be paid decently so that people can live with dignity from these jobs - that is our aim in europe! (applause from the centre) and if the change you seek is precisely that change in the european union, then the socialists in europe are on the side of the socialist tony blair. you can be sure of that. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we must be precise in the reform debate we are having. you are right, and mr pöttering has rightly said that - you have really stirred him up today - we must have the necessary debates here. but then we must also conduct it in a way that the citizens can understand, and we must not confuse apples with pears. of course we must reform the agricultural policy, mr prime minister! and of course we need more r&amp;d spending. but then we must not pretend that europe is all agriculture and no research and development. our budgetary expert, my colleague walter, once again mentioned figures in our group yesterday. i 'll say it again . in the european union as a whole, we spend 0.48% of the total european gross national product on agriculture, taking all agricultural expenditure together. if you take the research and development expenditure of the union and all its member states together, we are already spending 0.86% on research and development. you're right, we need more of that, and we need to reform agriculture. but these are slow processes. and we should not pretend that europe is just agriculture and not research and development. that's part of the credibility. (applause from the centre) we are at your side, mr prime minister, when it comes to deepening the european union. i am grateful to the president-in-office of the council, mr tony blair, for saying here that i am committed to this constitution. i saw you sign it in rome. and the fact that britain is committed to this constitution under your presidency of the council is something i find quite fascinating. because we have enough people saying that publicly and doing something else behind the scenes. we have had enough of politicians who, by their statements, throw sand at the gears of european integration and then complain that the european engine is stuttering! i think it's very commendable that you were different from them this morning, and i'm grateful to you for that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. let me finish. if you are prepared to compromise on the budget, on the services directive, on the working time directive, then we are on your side. but the credibility of one's own demand, mr prime minister, mr president-in-office, is always measured by how much one is willing to put into a compromise. so you have to say what you want to bring in at some point. to say, let the others move first, then i'll see, will be good for the british prime minister; the president of the council of the european union is not satisfied. (applause from the centre) watch who's clapping here: the right of this house just applauded you. she deliberately overheard you saying that we wanted to take turkey into the european union. the first people you're gonna fall for that are sitting right over there on this side of the house. thank you for your attention. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister! i think it's right, and that's the message from the european people that we need reform. we must make europe more competitive, we must set limits, we must avoid bureaucratization and over-regulation. but i would also like to say that this economically oriented project is not in contradiction with a constitutional treaty. it is the condition for its success, by creating better decision-making structures, by creating transparency and by involving citizens more closely. in particular, it also offers better opportunities for europe's role in the world. we saw this again yesterday at the iraq conference. i think that we must make it clear that there is no contradiction between a better economy in europe and a political project, but that the latter is a precondition for the former, because the political project also creates the solidarity needed to cooperate on economic issues. that is why we must have a political project and a market and not just a political project or a free trade area. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. these are important questions to me and we want to give them a positive answer. we want a social market economy and not manchester liberalism - that should be a constant reminder to us. mr president, the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to function effectively. the limitation in the field of enlargement must also be seen in the light of the present time, so that over-enlargement does not take place. over-extension is contrary to the ability to act and to competitiveness. i therefore invite you to resolve this existing contradiction. i'm glad you're saying you want to advance the political project. i would like to invite you to join this europe as a whole. the euro is part of the european union's competitiveness and i would be delighted if the united kingdom would join the euro and schengen as well, in order to fully exercise its membership of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to say that i am very pleased. we had the opportunity to visit you in person in london two weeks ago and to explore your idea of the presidency of the council. you made it clear to us at the time that you were concerned about the case. you care about the cause, and it's not about taking advantage of a situation. it is true that the pillars of the eu used to be coal, steel and agriculture, but that is not the vision that drives people. this is not the europe we imagine today. they are now putting the right emphasis on research, innovation, the competitiveness of europeans. this time of the old narrative, the old vision is over, we need a new one. jacques chirac and chancellor schröder have said they are ashamed of your behaviour. i am ashamed of the behaviour of my chancellor at this summit, but also of the behaviour of jacques chirac, because neither of them sees that we need a new vision, so we must now follow your path. you have seized the moment and i would like to congratulate you and say: keep it up!
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your report. the european union's heads of state or government have given us a period of reflection, and you, mr prime minister, are taking part in that by postponing the referendum in the united kingdom. the question of enlargement was a particular topic in the debates on the referendums in france and the netherlands. i know this from experience. i therefore believe that the question of enlargement must also be included in this reflection which is taking place now. we have a new situation here. we had the treaty of nice. we then found that this was not enough to work in 25 or 28 member states. we've called the convention. we have therefore drawn up a draft constitution which you support, mr prime minister. but we also know that the chances are very slim that this draft constitution, in its present form, will see the light of day. that is why we are faced with a new situation. and here a fourth criterion for accession is of particular importance, namely the criterion adopted in copenhagen, which states that it must also be examined whether the union itself is capable of coping with further accessions. if we do not have a constitution, if we do not have a financial regulation, then we must seriously ask ourselves whether it is really reasonable to open negotiations with turkey on its accession on 4 october. we have to ask ourselves whether we are really scalable. we must ask the european union itself this question. i and many of my friends believe that this question must be answered with a clear "no".
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can understand why you want to get the vote over quickly, but you cannot because it involves a whole series of different points. my proposal for a procedure is that motions 1 to 21 be voted on in one block. the other points actually need to be voted on in detail.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted against the statute of members because i think it sends the wrong signal. it is the wrong signal to adopt the statute so quickly in the shadow of the current european crisis. i also feel that it is a bit like wiping the eyes, like wine in old bottles, because i do not see much difference from the draft presented to us in the rothley report. we have heard many times in recent days that citizens' forums should be set up to deal with the crisis in europe. why don't we set up a citizens' forum on the statute for members of parliament? why not an internet consultation? if we take a break from the constitutional process, why not do the same for the statute of members? i still don't think it's right to link it to travel expenses. we can separate these two, and we do not need this statute for members of parliament in such a hurry. i would ask you to correct one vote. i am of course in favour of not lowering the retirement age. we cannot, in any case, tell the people that in times of austerity and social cuts. i think we have done europe a disservice today! i do not think that this will solve the mistrust and political disillusionment with the european institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. at a time when the eu is in a deep crisis, when it is not possible to reach agreement on the european constitution, when we are unable to decide on the future financial basis of the eu, when we are facing major economic problems and high unemployment in the eu, it is at such a time that we as the european parliament are once again looking at ourselves. the european union must not be seen as a pariah! i voted against the statute for members of the european parliament because i am against a tax advantage for us meps. i want to be taxed like my constituents and fellow citizens in germany, and i want to be paid as a german mep like my national colleagues in the german bundestag.
in writing. i support the idea of creating a uniform statute for all members of the european parliament. a good common statute is an important prerequisite for a functioning european parliament. the core of such a statute, however, must be a modern eu-wide system of immunity for meps. the present draft european parliament resolution calls on the member states to review the provisions laid down in a protocol of 1965. the draft statute itself lacks any provision to that effect. i consider this to be a fundamental flaw and that is why i voted against the draft statute, as i did in the vote in december 2003. if the statute enters into force in 2009, i very much hope that this shortcoming will be remedied by then by a binding, equal and eu-wide uniform regulation of the immunity of meps. the original draft by mr rothley was not only clearly superior to the present proposal in this respect. it also embodied a number of other aspects of parliamentary law which were more modern than national (including german) rules and more comprehensible to the citizens. this is the case, for example, with the required own contribution of members to their pensions, which is also not provided for in many national parliamentary rules.
in writing. the european parliament has been calling for a uniform statute for members for many years. we have been criticised many times for the extremely different remuneration of european representatives. the democratic development of the eu must be of equal value to all countries. the council has now put forward a proposal for the second time and we, as elected members of parliament, are now expected to agree to this compromise. it proposes to make a good third of the income of a european judge the basis of the members' income. i am not sure that the european parliament has a clear idea of what the financial independence of its members of parliament means to the people of europe. instead, meps are subjected to an unworthy media campaign. at a time when all pro-european forces are concentrating on overcoming the problems of modernisation in the new, larger europe, i shall not devote any energy to the statute project, which can be accused of being a 'self-service shop'. i shall abstain in the final vote.
in writing. i support the rapid adoption of a statute for members. the european parliament should be given equal treatment as soon as possible. i shall not, however, be voting on it, because i shall not be using the system. i have taken up the job on the same terms as before and i intend to keep them.
in writing. it is really no progress towards peace that the klich-report calls for a minimum annual community budget of €1 billion for armament and so called security research. the parliament's resolution is even worse than the commission proposals. it is preposterous to try and aim to close the gap on armament spending between the eu and the united states. this would mean require the eu to spend still much more each year on armament research. the eu is becoming more and more militarised. the spending of an additional one billion euros on armament research would be yet a further step in this direction. in rejecting the constitutional treaty, the people of france and the netherlands also rejected the eu militarisation envisaged in that treaty. it is a scandal that the protagonists of this militarized eu are simply going ahead with their plans regardless. instead of pretending to create jobs with huge spending on armaments, the eu should spend more on civil research programs - and not follow in the footsteps of the united states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. there is no doubt in this house that bulgaria and romania will be part of the european union. the question of the date of accession remains open. the conference of group chairmen has decided to invite observers in september, and of course we all regard the decision of the conference of group chairmen with the utmost respect. but perhaps it should be possible for the plenary to decide on its own on occasion. (applause from the centre) as regards the deployment of observers, there are three reasons why the timing was too early: firstly, observers have never been invited so early, secondly, in the event of a postponement of the date of accession, as is expressly possible under the treaties, they would be here for well over two years as observers, and thirdly, they would be here as observers when the commission presents its next progress report, in which we expect a reply as to whether accession is to take effect on 1 january 2007 or 1 january 2008. and it's not good to advise in the presence of observers. we therefore ask that this item be placed on the agenda so that we can deliberate carefully on it, guided by the decision of the plenary. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the treatment of members of this house at european summits has been an annoyance for years. the same thing happened at the last summit in brussels. it is simply not possible - not even for the media - to get in touch with their representatives, the bunker mentality in the justus lipsius building is so strong. we had some cards. i heard that three chauffeurs got a ticket, but three committee chairmen - budget, civil liberties and constitutional affairs - just couldn't get in. i would ask you to draw up a system for future summits to ensure that representatives of this house have access to these events.
the next item is the report by mrs diana wallis, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the request for the waiver of the immunities and privileges of mr umberto bossi [2004/2101 ((imm)) ] (a6-0210/2005).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i would like to thank mrs diana wallis very much for her report. but let me make a very basic point: we in the legal affairs committee discuss immunity issues in a closed session. these are, as a rule, highly sensitive issues which concern the individual member as a person. i thought it would be wise if we could avoid public debates in parliament on these immunity issues. that is why i will not say anything about the content. i will simply say that my group supports the position of the rapporteur in her report. at the same time, i would like to take the liberty of pointing out, contrary to the rules of procedure, that the same is true of mr speroni, the next rapporteur, and of mr marchiani. so you can delete my statement in this context. i would also ask that the debate be held quickly and speedily because mr trichet has been waiting here for over an hour and because i believe we have more important things to do than to let the private proceedings of members of parliament be made public here. (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report (a6-0208/2005) by mr speroni, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the request for the waiver of the immunities and privileges of mr jean-charles marchiani (c3-02105/2005 - imm).
there are no verbal messages. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr lauk, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report 2005/2048 of the european central bank (ini) (a6-0203/2005) and the report by mr maaten, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the implementation of the information and communication strategy on the euro and economic and monetary union 2005/2078 (ini) (a6-0197/2005).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not let me make a few comments on the report on the annual report of the european central bank. let me begin by saying that the report is pleasant to read and worth reading. in particular, it is pleasing that various departments have been closed down in a visible way and that complex fiscal issues have been discussed in understandable language. in this respect, this subject is suitable for further dissemination. let me get to the point. first of all, the ecb as a whole has acted with great skill in a difficult year. the first half of the year saw slight growth with medium and longterm inflation expectations. the second half of the year saw the opposite development. overall, the ecb successfully resisted the temptation to raise interest rates in the middle of the year and kept them stable. this scenario of monetary stability occurred last year as one of ten years in which the world economy grew by an average of 3.7%. it's just sad that europe has disconnected from this growth. the weak economic growth is in particular - and the ecb also speaks of this - the result of a lack of necessary structural reforms in the member states. so the bad growth is not the fault of the ecb. the ecb points out, on the contrary, that the member states have a greater responsibility in this area. in this context, it is important to note that the ecb has indeed made some notable, brief but clear statements on the reform of the stability and growth pact. we do not need to repeat the debate here, it is over, but we should be aware of the consequences. the new agreement does not impose strict criteria; this weakens the ecb. the ecb's job has become more difficult as responsibility for stability has been shifted back to the member states, in particular in three areas: the difficulty of maintaining discipline in the member states has increased enormously, firstly in terms of the size of national budgets, secondly in terms of the structure of government tasks and expenditure, and thirdly in terms of the structure of tax revenue. in other words, by softening the stability and growth pact, the member states have de facto shifted responsibility back to the national states and have therefore made the ecb's job more difficult. the ecb is in favour of the preventive arm. it is a sign of poverty that the member states have not been able to strengthen the preventive arm in good times. now he needs to be strengthened. the ecb welcomes this, but warns that the corrective arm is being weakened. we must therefore deal with the subject of enlargement. the integration of 10 new member states was smoothly ensured by the ecb. estonia, lithuania and slovenia have been members of the european exchange rate mechanism since 28 june 2004 and latvia, malta and cyprus since 2 may 2005. it is our clear call on the ecb that, despite the reform of the stability and growth pact, the maastricht criteria should be maintained in future accessions to monetary union, that they should be enforced and not weakened. the statistical situation of greece must be prevented in future when it joins monetary union. we have finally asked the ecb to improve its information policy, which is good on the whole. there's still room here. we welcome the publication of statistical information and the increased regularity of publication. there is also a good dialogue, but one which - in a small circle, so to speak - could be improved and made more regular. we are also calling on the ecb to issue a beige book, such as the one published by the us federal reserve, in the future. let me conclude by saying: the ecb has taken a major step towards payment and securities settlement in the last year. the target ii system for trans-european automated real-time gross express transfers has been launched, making possible real-time settlement in central bank money across the union. this has created the possibility of a shift from the patchwork carpet to the system in europe. the ecb has taken the courageous steps to do so. in the light of the report which has been drawn up, i would ask that the amendments which have been tabled be rejected and that the report be accepted as it stands.
president of the european central bank. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the european parliament, i have the honour to present to you today the annual report of the ecb for the year 2004. the european central bank is aware of the fundamental importance of its democratic responsibility and has always stressed that its independence must be accompanied by strict accountability. the ecb therefore attaches paramount importance to regular dialogues with the elected representatives of the european citizens. and let me say that i listened with the greatest interest to mr lauk's report and to mr maaten's report. in my introductory remarks i shall first give an overview of economic and monetary developments in 2004 and present our assessment of the economic outlook and monetary policy strategy. in this connection, i shall turn to some of the comments and suggestions contained in the draft report on the ecb annual report 2004. let me start with economic and monetary matters. in 2004 the ecb's monetary policy operated in an environment of gradual economic recovery in the euro area. real gdp growth for the year as a whole stood at 1.8%, compared with 0.5% in the previous year. during the first half of 2004 economic activity showed relatively dynamic growth. in the second half, however, economic growth was only modest, partly on account of rising oil prices. as regards price developments, underlying domestic inflationary pressures in the euro area remained contained, reflecting subdued increases in labour compensation and well-anchored inflation expectations. while the appreciation of the euro exchange rate in 2004 contributed to lower inflationary pressures, increases in administered prices, indirect taxes and rises in the oil price visibly affected headline inflation rates. overall, the annual hicp inflation was 2.1%, unchanged from the previous year. against the background of subdued domestic price pressures and a favourable outlook for price stability over the medium term, key ecb interest rates remained unchanged throughout the year at historically low levels. interest rates remained low over the entire maturity spectrum, thereby lending considerable support to economic activity. as a matter of fact, our long-term rates are at their lowest level for 100 years. fiscal developments in the euro area in 2004 were, as has been said by the rapporteur, far from satisfactory. the average fiscal deficit in the euro area broadly stabilised at 2.7% of gdp. this is a level which not only implies a rising debt ratio which could become unsustainable, but also leaves little safety margin for short-term budgetary relief in the event of adverse developments. discussions on a revision of the stability and growth pact continued in 2004, resulting in a report adopted in march 2005. the implementation of the budget in 2005 and the preparation of the budget for 2006 both provide the first opportunities for all parties involved to rigorously implement the provisions of the pact, in order to show that the pact remains an effective framework for fiscal policy coordination and discipline. as the rapporteur said, everyone in this parliament knows what the ecb's position was throughout these discussions. finally, 2004 saw significant revisions of past deficits and debt figures in a few countries, undermining the effectiveness of eu fiscal surveillance. it is of vital importance that the reliable compilation and timely reporting of government finance statistics is ensured. turning to the crucial issue of structural reforms, the ecb welcomes and supports the renewed impetus for economic reform as a result of the relaunch of the lisbon strategy, its stronger focus on growth and employment, and the new governance framework aimed at improving the delivery of reforms. the new integrated guidelines for 2005-08, comprising both the new broad economic policy guidelines and the new employment guidelines, should now set the stage for concrete action at eu level and by member states. i shall now say a few words about monetary policy in a vast and diversified euro area. the magnitude of inflation dispersion across euro-area countries is similar to the dispersion observed in the 14 us metropolitan statistical areas. in a monetary union, inflation and labour cost differentials across regions or countries are the natural way of adjusting relative prices in the face of asymmetric demand or supply developments. such adjustments within the euro area have been larger and more frequent than anticipated. from that standpoint the euro area is more flexible than had been expected by many observers. while generally adjustments of relative prices are economically justified, there are cases where inflation differentials may be due to inappropriate national economic policies and rigidities in labour and product markets. for these countries structural reforms are very highly advisable. i was pleased to note, while listening to the rapporteur, that you share our view that the regular dialogue is a very important part of the overall framework. the ecb is grateful for the suggestions made by the european parliament and considers them with great care. in this respect, i can report that last year the ecb decided that it would henceforth publish its financial stability review, in line with a proposal made by the european parliament. i note that on many important issues the views expressed in the motion for a resolution are very close to those held by the ecb, such as the statements concerning the ecb's monetary policy conduct in 2004 and the diagnosis that the relative weakness of economic activity can be attributed to a lack of structural reform. your position with regard to the reform of the stability and growth pact was also very close to the ecb's views in this respect. i also welcome the fact that the motion for a resolution congratulates us for the work we have undertaken to prepare for the enlargement of the european union, which marked another milestone towards an ever closer union. the thorough preparations for this enlargement enabled the smooth entry of the ten new national central banks into the escb. we share your view on this particular point that the best possible preparation for adopting the euro is a high level of sustainable convergence, in accordance with the maastricht criteria. although there are many topics on which we entirely share the views expressed in the motion for a resolution, there are some issues where we have a slightly different opinion. the motion for a resolution urged the ecb to consider the publication of 'summary minutes'. yet i must say we continue to see great advantages in the communication channels chosen by the ecb. the approach chosen by the ecb to communicate its monetary policy decisions to the public almost in real time facilitates expectation formation and thus enhances the effectiveness of monetary policy. the ecb approach has achieved a high degree of monetary policy predictability and has allowed long-term inflation expectations to be anchored at healthy levels. we have provided the european parliament with extensive and up-to-date information through various channels and stand ready to continue to do so with regard to the very important question of clearing and settlement. should a directive on clearing and settlement be adopted at a later stage, these standards would have to be amended accordingly, if necessary. let me also tell you that we have read with the utmost interest the motion for a resolution on the implementation of an information and communication strategy on the euro and emu. among the measures suggested in this resolution is for the ecb to undertake an annual quantitative analysis of the benefits of the single currency for citizens. i am not sure at this stage that such an annual quantitative report would be the most appropriate means, for reasons of methodological and data constraints. but we will reflect on all appropriate means to enhance communication on the interest of the single currency for our fellow citizens of the euro area through the widest possible range of tools at our disposal - press conferences, publication of the annual reports and monthly bulletins, and speeches delivered and articles published all over the euro area. mr president, if i may, i would like to conclude by adding three thoughts on the present european situation, following the results of the french and dutch referendums. firstly, europe's development has its own pace, which can only be appreciated in time. the european central bank and its president are confident in europe's ability to overcome its current difficulties and i fully shared the feeling of confidence and resolve which was immediately expressed in the declaration that your president, josep borrell fontelles, signed with jean-claude juncker and josé manuel barroso. secondly, the challenges and opportunities which european and world history, demography, technology and the economy are presently presenting to europe are so important that they make it even more urgent to implement the necessary reform programme which was conceived in lisbon and relaunched in brussels at the european council in march. i fully agree with the rapporteur's conclusion on this point, as i do on many others. finally, everyone can be sure that in future, as in the past, we will be totally faithful to our mandate: the draft constitution does not change the way the european central bank and the single currency operate, which rest on the very solid foundations laid down by the maastricht treaty. europe can count on the european central bank and the eurosystem to remain, in all circumstances, an anchor of stability and credibility, and to preserve, within its limits, confidence. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr lauk and mr maaten, on the excellent work they have done with their respective reports. i think it is a wise decision by this parliament to discuss them together this afternoon, because it is clear that the present and future of the euro have a lot to do with the activity and the correctness of the decisions of the european central bank. both the euro and the european central bank have been the target of attacks in recent weeks. the criticisms in the public debate are logical and positive. if the attacks are based on lack of argument and even demagogy, then they must be answered. i think this debate is a good opportunity to respond to some of the unfounded criticisms that both the single currency and the european central bank have received in recent weeks. first of all, as mr maaten's report does, we must stress the advantages of the euro, the positive aspects of the single currency since it was launched: it has given us stability in the face of possible turbulence and monetary crises, such as those we have known in the past, it has given us price stability, thanks in large measure to the success of the monetary policy conducted by the european central bank, it has given us low interest rates thanks to this stability and it has protected us against risks that we must not ignore. the euro allows us to overcome the risks we faced before, but we must not forget that these risks can reappear if we do not preserve confidence in our currency and in our economic and monetary union and its credibility. it has been said, on the occasion of the two referendums held in france and the netherlands, that some of the criticisms of the 'no' campaigners referred to brussels as a kind of 'scapegoat'. they tried to criticize elements of the world situation or the strategies of their respective national governments, but in making those criticisms they pointed the finger at brussels. i have the impression that the same is true of the euro and monetary policy. the low growth of the european economies is not a problem of the single currency or of monetary policy; it is a problem, mainly and basically, of the lack of structural reforms, of the loss of dynamism, flexibility and adaptability of the european economies in a global world in which economic frontiers have long since lost the meaning they had a century ago. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the past is not coming back and the adversary is not the euro or monetary policy. the european union is therefore facing difficult times, both economically and politically, and we must take on special responsibility for making sound decisions. i believe, as i have said many times in this parliament and outside it, that the reform of the stability and growth pact, which has had very strong support in this parliament, is a wise decision which is beginning to be rigorously implemented, as president trichet has just asked. next week we will discuss the proposals for recommendations adopted by the commission in the ecofin council a few days ago in relation to italy; we will do so in the coming weeks in relation to portugal and we will do so before the end of the year in relation to other countries: some of the founding countries of the european union and also some of the new member states of the union. these rules must be applied with credibility and energy, but at the same time with rationality, so as not to give an argument to those who want to oppose economic stability and budgetary discipline to economic growth and job creation, because they are not incompatible; they are perfectly compatible. the current stability and growth pact, after the reform, allows this compatibility to have practical consequences in the decisions taken by the commission and the council. as president trichet has just said, and as the report says, the dialogue between the european central bank, whose independence must be respected, the commission and the council, and in particular the eurogroup, must be strengthened. i am an exceptional witness to the important dialogue that takes place every month in the eurogroup between the president of the european central bank and the eurozone ministers of economy and finance. we must tackle a very important issue with which i would like to end this speech: the enlargement of the euro area to include the new member states, which will be able to join the 12 present member states in the coming years, with rigor and at the same time with a broad outlook. in the coming months we will have to analyse rigorously, sincerely and in full dialogue with the countries concerned whether estonia, lithuania or slovenia - which were the first three enlargement countries to become part of the exchange mechanism in 2004 - will next year meet all the conditions laid down in the treaty to be able to join the euro area, as their authorities wish. in this connection, with regard to information on the euro, i would like to inform this parliament that in recent months i have started a programme of visits, which will continue in the coming months, from now until the end of the year, to all the new member states to discuss in detail with their authorities, both their governments and the governors of their respective central banks, the state of their preparation for their eventual accession to the euro area. we have learned a great deal from the 1990s to the present: we can and must pass on this experience to the authorities of the countries which will one day be part of the euro zone and we can take advantage of these successive enlargements of the euro zone to explain to all european citizens, of the new and old member countries, the great advantages of the euro and dispel some of the misconceptions that are being spread about our single currency. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the euro and the european central bank are undoubtedly a success story. despite political turbulence, the euro is proving relatively stable. it is becoming a major reserve currency. and we heard it: the new eu member states are interested in very rapid implementation in their own countries. the ecb has always behaved in a professional and independent manner, even though the different economic developments in the euro area and political pressures have not made its work much easier. i encourage the european central bank to remain true to its commitment to independence and to continue to regard the stability of the euro as the main objective of its work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i do not agree with my colleague mr dos santos on this. the ecb's difficult environment is also due to the fact that the reform of the stability pact has largely removed the second pillar of stability for the euro, and thus the ecb has overall responsibility for a stable currency. the council has ignored all the european parliament's suggestions for improvements in the practical implementation of the reform. this suggests that the finance ministers may not want to soften the pact, but at least accept it. this is partly because the major eurozone countries, such as germany, france and italy, have been violating the pact's criteria for years and do not want to be held accountable. germany will not be able to meet the conditions for the next two years - this year anyway. italy has been found to be in breach of the stability pact as early as 2003 and will also need at least two years to return to the green zone. in conclusion, i would like to note that the governing council should make use of the possibility under article 10 of the statute of the ecb to take decisions by majority vote, rather than seek consensus at any cost. the ecb should not be satisfied with a consensus which is often only the lowest common denominator. i can understand why the ecb, at a time when political pressure is very high, does not want to publish minutes, let alone the results of votes by name. but i hope that the day will come when, in addition to the minutes, at least the voting ratio can be published. last but not least, i would like to join my colleague mr lauk in saying that you should publish a beige book, like the us federal reserve, with a detailed analysis of the economic developments in each country.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a month ago, the people of france and the netherlands voted overwhelmingly against the constitutional treaty, a vote which was directed above all against a 'continuation' of neoliberal policies in europe, not least against the so-called stability and growth pact. what has this pact led to? price stability is only one side, on the other side there is mass unemployment and a huge increase in poverty in europe. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still in the process of being drawn up. but unimpressed by the social upheavals and unimpressed by the obvious problems in implementing the pact, the present report continues to praise lauk. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. as if it would solve the problem if those who still have work toiled longer and longer and to the point of collapse, while more and more people do not even get the chance to use their labor power at all! if you understand and support european politics in this way, you should not be surprised if more and more people turn away from it. the failure of the constitutional referenda in france and the netherlands has clearly shown that the majority of europeans want something different: a new social policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking you for your work over the past year, mr president trichet. they have fought brilliantly for the stability of the euro against the member states, against the council and also against the commission at a time when the stability and growth pact was under attack. i would like to thank the epp group for this and encourage it to continue to do so, because times are not getting any easier. the stability pact has been softened, made more flexible, some say abolished; i'll leave that open for now. we are seeing in these days with italy how far it is being applied and applied. some people make question marks there, too. but the inflationary danger has certainly not been eliminated by what has happened in the last few months, but has increased. if mrs wagenknecht, who unfortunately has a more important appointment, speaks of 'new poverty', then the real poverty is when money becomes less valuable. we should always be careful - and you have said this - to demand exactly what is necessary in the future: national reforms. i would therefore have wished the commission to have reacted accordingly when mr de villepin, from france - your country - proposed that in future, alongside the ecb, an economic and financial government be set up, with joint responsibility for economic growth and jobs. this is the logical second step. the first step was to change or abolish the stability and growth pact at its core, and the second step is now to use the european central bank not only for monetary stability but equally for other measures, for economic growth and jobs. i can only warn you that it is necessary for the national states to do their homework, and the most irresponsible thing we can do at the moment is - and i am hearing this from colleagues in the other political group - to suggest to the people that we do not need to change anything, we just need a different policy at the ecb, that social standards can remain as they are. this is irresponsible, especially since those who are talking about this should know better than anyone that national reforms are more urgently needed than ever. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague from baden-württemberg, mr kurt lauk, very much for his report. he rightly pointed out that the european central bank and you, mr president trichet, have done a good job in the past year. the euro is a success story for many of our fellow citizens, despite a perceived inflation. in this context, i would like to expressly agree with mr ettl that price stability alone will certainly not lead to economic growth in europe, but - and you have also pointed this out, mr president trichet - the national states are called upon to orient their economic policies to the current constraints of reform. i would also like to comment on a point raised by the rapporteur which still poses a major problem for many citizens, namely the high cost of crossborder transfers. i am sure and i hope that the commission will make further efforts here to finally implement the single european payment area. like mr radwan, i do not believe that we need a common economic government in europe, at whose altar the european central bank, whose independence must be and is guaranteed, explains its policy to the ministers for economic affairs and finance. i believe that the european central bank, in its comments on the relaxation of the stability and growth pact, has assumed the political role that is its due. it is absolutely unacceptable, especially for the younger generation, that the member states spend several hundred billion euros a year more than they receive in taxes, and that this should be somehow safeguarded by a modified european political stability and growth pact. i am therefore extremely grateful to you for your clear words on this change in the pact and, in the interests of the younger generation, i ask you to maintain a keen eye on monetary policy in the future with regard to all measures taken in connection with the stability and growth pact.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in my mother tongue, there is a saying: "what lasts long, finally becomes good". when the commission submitted its proposal to the council and parliament in 1999 to limit phthalates in toys and baby products, it did not expect that so much time would pass before the final adoption of this directive. at first it seemed impossible to reconcile the divergent views within the council to a compromise. the member states therefore decided to wait until a series of risk assessments under regulation no 793/93 had been completed before taking their decision. i would point out, however, that there was no danger to children in europe at that time either, since the commission had called on the member states, by means of a decision under the general product safety directive, to ban the six phthalates in question in certain toys and baby products. however, this decision had to be renewed regularly in order to remain valid. in this context, i am very pleased that now that most of the results of the risk assessments and the relevant opinions of the relevant scientific committee are available, the council and parliament have reached agreement so quickly. this compromise for a permanent arrangement respects the precautionary principle, but without losing sight of the principle of proportionality. i would like to make it clear to the commission that it does not intend to accept amendments nos 22 and 23, which do not comply with the compromise between the european parliament and the council. during the negotiations between the council and parliament, the commission offered to make two statements in order to facilitate the search for a compromise. i'm making these statements now. the first explanation relates to the creation of a guide and is as follows. 'as soon as a directive on restrictions on the marketing and use of phthalates in toys and childcare articles has been adopted, the commission, in consultation with member states' experts responsible for the management of directive 76/769/eec and stakeholders, will prepare a guidance document in order to facilitate the implementation of the directive. the document will address in particular the provisions relating to restrictions on certain substances in toys and childcare articles, insofar as they concern the condition 'which can be put in the mouth', as in the annex to the directive.' the second explanation relates to the use of fragrances in children's toys. it is as follows: 'the commission confirms its intention to address the issue of fragrances in toys within the framework of the revision of the directive on the safety of toys. this will have the advantage of identifying exactly what should be understood as fragrances, of considering the appropriate measures to deal with the identified risk and of ensuring consistency with the other provisions of the said directive.' i would like to conclude by congratulating vice-president trakatellis and the luxembourg presidency. without the efforts of both sides, agreement on this very difficult and important matter would not have been possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council has waited five years to submit its opinion to parliament for second reading. i think that is very responsible, since he has waited for the results of the extensive risk assessment of phthalates, particularly dnp. the eu risk assessments of dnp do not consider dnp to be a risk for use in all population groups, including infants. nevertheless, the council, on the basis of the study by the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment, extended the restrictions on phthalates in children's toys to the 0-3 year age group. the precautionary principle has thus been sufficiently implemented, based on the scientific result. i therefore consider the council's proposal for a second reading to be balanced and realistic. it takes account of the need to protect the health of our children and gives the toy industry a clear perspective. it is also good that we have now reached agreement between parliament and the council. i therefore turn to my colleagues in parliament and say that i am not entirely satisfied with the course of the debate and its outcome. i want to justify this: firstly, the approaches we are now pursuing are characterized by an exaggerated call for the application of the precautionary principle. what are warnings for when there is nothing to warn about, and what are prohibitions on fragrances when they are intended to neutralize the smell? if we continue in this way, we will become a breeding ground for prohibition and panic. in contrast, there are hardly any deaths from phthalates, but there are 380 deaths a day from smoking; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's painful to have tears in your eyes. secondly, by the compromise amendments we are putting our very own task of drafting legislation into the hands of the commission. i have confidence in the commission, as the commissioner has said, and i can only urge it to continue to use the risk assessment as the basis for the council's position at second reading. i think we will have a good result in the end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i hope that tomorrow we see the beginning of the end of soft pvc in toys. this move away from plasticizers is long overdue, especially since there are safer alternatives. in germany, there have been worrying test results for scoobidoo bands and plastic dolls. they caused a great deal of alarm because they showed the high concentration of plasticizers. however, they also made it clear that the existing legislation requiring product controls was not sufficient. the european toy directive does not take account of plasticizers suspected of damaging the liver, kidneys and reproductive organs. it has been pointed out that the poison cocktail is dissolved not only by saliva but also by fat in the skin or sweat. we cannot give these children this toxic burden on their way through life. the ban on fertilizers is a milestone in consumer protection and, above all, in the protection of children. i hope that we will also take a quantum leap in the second category, because we can then prove that the internal market is not only in the interests of industry, but also in the interests and protection of children. dangerous substances such as phthalates must be withdrawn from the market and replaced by safe ones. but phthalates in soft pvc are just the tip of the iceberg. i hope that the commission will come forward as soon as possible with a proposal which also covers medical equipment such as infusion tubes or blood bags, because there are alternatives here too, and here too we must not put the health, especially of children and newborns, at risk.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my group made it clear at the meeting that we agree with the rapporteur, mrs müller, 100 per cent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the fact that there is a debate in the commission again about the meaning and meaninglessness of ambitious environmental policy is not at all understandable when one looks at these documents. i think you should actually put the figures on the table, commissioner verheugen, which are contained in your own commission report on environmental technologies. the global market for environmental goods was already worth eur 500 billion in 2003. the world market in this field is larger than that for aerospace. this market has been growing by 5% per year since 2003. this growth is higher than the growth of gross national product. so what more do we want? this is a very ambitious environmental policy, and i can only encourage you, mr dimas: do not be fooled, be as ambitious as your predecessors in office!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the report under discussion here underlines the importance and strength of the european parliament. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. parliament has had a considerable influence, thanks in no small part to the clear position of the rapporteur. the commission's original proposal was a more planned economic instrument, in which the administration would have determined where companies should invest in their infrastructure. parliament has succeeded in transforming this planned economy into a competitive approach which will deal much better with the problems of security of supply. this is all the more important as the current development in europe is characterised by an increasing demand for electricity, which also brings the need for new power stations back into focus. as the blackouts in italy in 2003 could have correctly shown, the lack of competition was mainly due to the weak infrastructure. privatization and competition are always two sides of the same coin, particularly in the case of public services. the commission's initial assumption that public authorities could compensate for a lack of competition and, in case of doubt, would know better where to invest in network infrastructure in the eu member states was a step in the wrong direction. the other, now improved, contents of the proposal for a directive also show that more competition can be a solution strategy. the eu is on the right track in terms of security of supply by promoting the conditions for a sufficient wholesale market that provides appropriate price signals for investment in generation capacity. the main objective of the european union must be to create viable energy market structures in which companies can make money, because that is the right incentive to create an investment climate which ultimately creates the infrastructure. this directive is not one of those which are toxic to businesses. that's good. we therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposal and congratulate him.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. i would like to emphasize in particular the shadow rapporteur of our group, mrs pia noora-kauppi, who has made an excellent effort to reach reasonable compromises and a good solution, and has shown a tremendous level of expertise. i have the greatest respect for her in connection with the work she has done here. to make it clear once again, as was made clear in the debate in the legal affairs committee, no one, no political grouping - i cannot rule out that this is the case for individuals - wants software patents. that's not the point. the purpose of this directive was to prevent legal developments in europe like those in the united states. that's the point. the common position also serves this purpose. at the end of may we received an opinion from the chamber of commerce and industry for munich and upper bavaria. similar to what the honourable member said earlier about ireland, in germany the region around munich has the largest concentration of small and mediumsized software developers who have held a hearing there. the result was clear: the common position met the conditions set and solved the problems. but it can be improved. we in the legal affairs committee have made a number of important improvements to the rocard report by means of 39 amendments. we have made clarifications and created new options. i would just like to draw attention to the two terms interoperability and technology definition. the report by the legal affairs committee is therefore a moderate report, which is suitable for solving any remaining problems. the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, mr rocard, and those put forward by the other groups in this house go far beyond the point. we sat here a few months ago and committed ourselves once again to the lisbon process. a knowledgebased society in europe is a core element of the lisbon process. we have no raw materials. we depend on our brains, on our knowledge, on the skills of our people. if we allow excessive amendments to create a situation where much of europe's high technology is no longer patentable, we will be putting the livelihood of future generations on this continent in question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we shall have to consider this option in the group tonight. this option is also worth considering from two points of view. firstly, it is of no use to us if we have to go through a long conciliation process on the basis of the legal affairs committee's proposals and end up with a simple majority in this house failing the directive at third reading. secondly, we do not want a directive which is ultimately so negatively altered by parliament's amendments that it causes damage to the lisbon process, damage to europe. if that happens, then i'd rather not have a policy at all! that is why this question will have to be decided tonight in our group.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to tell you that the whole discussion about software patents in this house is in great part contrary to what is being said in the european institutions across the continent, in particular through the initiatives of the commission and the council, that we want to do everything possible to protect the vital interests of small and mediumsized enterprises. in europe, the software industry has developed very well and successfully, with the help of regulations - fully adequate regulations on copyright, reverse engineering and, in certain areas, also using patents. why do we need these new regulations at all? there's so much talk about over-regulation. if you actually do the software patents that are being discussed, you're only benefiting two or three big companies, mainly microsoft and sap, so one american company and one big german company, maybe even siemens and those kinds of companies. but you are damaging the vital interests of many small and mediumsized businesses which have been very successful in recent years. what is being discussed here as software patent regulation could be a job creation measure, and for lawyers. lawyers will have a lot of work to do if we don't reject what's being asked of us today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's said that we're talking about one of the most controversial laws in the world. but that would only be the case if half were for and half were against. the situation is quite different here, where a large majority of the parliament is in favour of the aim of the law, namely the clear principle that pure software is not patentable. it's all about protecting the software over copyright. even there, of course, the protection is not for individual lines but for the work as a whole, just as in a book the protection is not for individual sentences but for the book as a whole. but what we need in our economy, of course, are patents. patents are a sign, an indicator of a knowledge-based economy. this is a question of technical developments, inventions with additional requirements such as novelty and the like, even if they are computer-aided, computer-implemented or computer-controlled. why do we need this law? we need it to avoid the situation we have in the united states. we know that we already have over 30,000 software patents, and we want to prevent that from happening in the future. that's why we need the law. we are right to ensure ourselves by monitoring by the commission. the commission must report to us in three years. is there really any back door, even though we have tried to close it with the last compromises? and if there are still backdoors like that, then the commission needs to report to us about it, as well as about the open source movement, so that in three years we can deal with it and close any backdoors. the matter is not closed at this stage, not only because we still have to reach an agreement with the council, but also because we are continuing to monitor the application of our law and we reserve the right to take further steps in three years' time on the basis of the application of the law.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would point out, unlike many of my colleagues, that in the course of the negotiations we all - or at least the majority of our colleagues - agreed that we want patenting in this area of computer-implemented inventions, and that the great strength of our european industry also depends on our having something like this. the schizophrenic situation is that at the moment companies that want to patent in this area can do so and that the commission's proposal has really only advocated that we get more harmonisation throughout europe. the second thing we wanted to avoid - and i think all our colleagues would agree on this - is to follow the american path in the field of patenting, where it would be possible, for example, to patent software to software. what we want is -- to put it very simply in computer language -- software to hardware. the big problem we have now is to get the language really clean. i would therefore ask the commission again, in view of the vote to be held tomorrow, how this can be done, because we have a great many proposals here. the amendments tabled in the field of interoperability are the main ones. we have the proposal from mr rocard and the other colleagues who have tabled their motions. we have the proposal from mrs piia-noora kauppi and we have my proposal. i would ask the commission what its position is on these various proposals, particularly in the area of compulsory licences or limited exclusion when it comes to pure software to software. commissioner, perhaps you could comment on this again?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the value of innovation, the importance of the knowledge society, has often been invoked in this space. it has been said that the mind is our trump card, europe's trump card in globalisation. but just as important as developing that mind is, of course, that our ideas are not stolen by others. imagine an inventor who has spent millions of dollars over two years on an invention, and three months later, someone copies that invention, puts it on the market, and robs the inventor of the reward for his effort. patents are the protection of the weak, the protection of the inventor against the one who has the market power. the patent settles the dispute between the power of the mind and the power of the market in favour of the power of the mind, whether it is a large or a small company. i am very dissatisfied with the way this debate has been going over the last few weeks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the legal affairs committee has tabled 40 amendments to less than 10 articles. we have dozens of other amendments whose consequences we can hardly foresee. i am beginning to feel that this dossier is not yet ready for a decision and we should really consider whether we are not suspending the legislative procedure by rejecting the common position. that would be perhaps the most responsible decision we could make at this stage.
the next item is voting time. (the results and further details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i am pleased to welcome a delegation from the indian parliament to the podium. (applause from the centre) the delegation is led by the vice-president of the council of states, mr raman khan, accompanied by four members of the house of the people and three members of the council of states. on behalf of our house, i welcome the delegation which is in strasbourg to take part in the 12th interparliamentary meeting of the european parliament with india. last year a working party of our house met your indian colleagues in new delhi and this visit confirms the renewed interest in an exchange during the current electoral period, a new electoral period for india and for us. we are particularly pleased with the continuing and steadily growing fruitful cooperation with india and we will do our part to deepen this cooperation between our parliaments. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. mr president, commissioner, the council presidency, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think it is not too much to say that european structural policy is at the heart of the european union. this also means that cuts in structural funds can be compared to a risky heart operation. it can go wrong, it can leave a mark, and it should be avoided. i would like to point out to the british presidency that a body without a heart is a dead body. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to call on everyone in the house once again to design the european structural funds in such a way that they play as central a role for the body as the heart: health is achieved when all parts are doing well, when they are in solidarity with each other and fair to each other, and do not use the resources available to compete with each other. but this requires the sustainable, efficient and bottom-up use of resources to empower the most vulnerable and respond appropriately to development challenges. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the most important factor in all the drafts of the individual funds is the inclusion of the local level as a target, as a programme and as an actor. i would therefore like to emphasize once again that the european structural funds are becoming increasingly important in dealing with problems. in small villages as well as in the slums of large cities, they are europe visible and tangible to the people and therefore indispensable and irreplaceable for european integration. the european social fund is the most obvious example. it has become the 'small people's fund' after the substantial improvements made by parliament. it jumps in where there is exclusion, it supports where people are disconnected, it inspires where innovation is needed to create jobs. in reply to the statement by the presidency, i would like to stress once again that jobs can be created even in regions which are already considered depreciated. the esf, with the amendments tabled by parliament, is an excellent instrument for this. it is the opposite of the idea that only large-scale investment can create competition and jobs. it is a project that is designed to help the regions to develop their knowledge and innovative potential. these factors are also present in problem regions, and that is why he can count on success there. i would like to stress once again that the commission is not living up to its claim that equal should be fully integrated into the esf. the amendments tabled by parliament are therefore particularly important in order to ensure that the whole approach is adopted in an innovative way. let me conclude with a final statement on the partnership principle: the council's attempt to abolish it is a frontal attack on the democratic nature of the structural funds. it is social control that ensures that money is not wasted and is actually put where it is needed. the strengthening of the partnership principle is therefore essential for the structural funds. we support the commission's proposal to include the partners representing the groups which are now finally being recognised under the anti-discrimination article of the treaty. however, these groups need the know-how to be able to provide expertise and opinions as equal partners. we do not think it is wise - and i say this again to the commission - to use gender mainstreaming against these groups. i would like to point out once again that the success of the european structural funds can only be achieved if they take account of the principle of sustainability.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to join and start the joint debate on the future of structural and cohesion policy by thanking my colleagues, especially the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, and in particular alain hutchinson, our shadow rapporteur on the hatzidakis report. he cannot take part in the debate today because he is in burundi on an election observation mission. he's very sorry he can't be here. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. we have clearly supported the general line of simplifying and de-bureaucratising cohesion and structural policy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european network of regional airports is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but we also agreed in committee on the possibility of private co-financing. a common approach was adopted for the situation of the regions affected by the statistical effect. the whole committee was concerned that we should be able to put policies in place for the people in the poorest and most deprived regions! the european union is not a political union, but a political union. the question of the subsidization of vat in the regional fund has been the subject of difficult discussions in our group. the majority of our group believes that european structural policy is for investment in the regions and not for subsidies to public funds. we are also aware of the difficulties facing local authorities, particularly in the new member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would be very happy if this compromise proposal could find a majority in this house and i would specifically advocate it. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the european union is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the best regulations are useless without the budget that goes with them. mr michael, i would ask you to take this up with mr blair: your country too has excellent examples of positive european structural policy, which we intend to continue in time for 1 january 2007. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by expressing my respect and gratitude to all the rapporteurs, but especially to mr andria for his openness and for the substantive discussions during the cooperation on the report on the cohesion fund. the same applies to the working basis, the commission proposal. our group has long advocated the integration of the cohesion fund into the general guidelines for the structural funds. this means more targeted spending of eu funds, more transparency and greater efficiency, but also more say of the regions in the identification of programmes and projects, i.e. the implementation of the partnership principle. all these steps will have our full support. the same applies to the commission's proposal to introduce a new priority in the cohesion fund. the commission has also been active in the field of energy efficiency. we have tabled a number of amendments which i would like to see supported. we want the funds to be allocated in equal shares to the environment and transport infrastructure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the railways. in conclusion, i wish the british presidency, like my colleagues who have spoken before me, good luck in ensuring that we have a budget soon enough so that the continuation of the structural funds programmes is not jeopardised in an irresponsible way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. my group supports the emphasis in the fava report on investment, infrastructure and other development initiatives in selected community priority areas, as, as in the past, such investments are expected to bring substantial additional benefits to the community as a whole. the report adopted by the committee essentially confirms a number of provisions of the regulation dealing with the scope, the aid and the rules governing the eligibility of expenditure. the vote in committee reflects the position of the epp-ed group as a whole, although not in full and in every detail. and we agree with the commission and the rapporteur, mr fava, on the content of the three objectives, convergence, regional competitiveness and employment and european territorial cooperation. we also support the proposed percentage breakdown of funds. the emphasis on the most eligible regions, while not disadvantaging the regions affected by the statistical effect, is a logical consequence of article 160 of the ec treaty. i would like to draw your attention to two points in particular: firstly, the private co-financing, which must be possible, as it is now. this means that private funds are included in the calculation of the cofinancing rate. there is no reason why the commission should not agree to this. if, in the context of the financial perspective, there is no agreement on the amount of funds available in time - and this is my second point - the most eligible regions will have to be given special consideration in the area of cohesion, as provided for in the treaty. this means that the reductions must not be limited to linear reductions, which would clearly be to the detriment of the convergence regions and would be contrary to the guidelines of european cohesion policy. but perhaps the british presidency will be able to achieve a budgeting of structural policy which would make any cuts impossible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. she's unable to come today for personal reasons. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has now taken the initiative of presenting the report to the council. we would like to thank mr silva peneda for his cooperation. he has really succeeded in bringing everyone together and in formulating the most important objectives for everyone here. the report contains many important additions to the commission's proposal and we hope that it will be adopted by a large majority tomorrow. we shall only make a request which, in our view, must be added. i would like to mention four points in all due detail: firstly, we welcome the fact that member states are being encouraged to implement innovative and transnational measures. this will ensure european added value and will spread the best experience we have gained in labour market policy. secondly, we believe it is very important to strengthen the link with the national action plans against social exclusion. the longterm unemployed and those without a school education need special support which can be provided by this. thirdly, we welcome the commitment of member states to more women-specific measures and the establishment of gender budgeting. some member states, such as germany, belgium and austria, already have more than 10% of esf resources allocated to women's employment. finally, we believe that asylum seekers must continue to benefit from esf measures. they are with us in many places for many months waiting for a decision on their asylum application and therefore need our support. we have to make an offer to them, whether they later get asylum or return to their home country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the structural policy is an expression of the solidarity of the community by supporting the weakest regions in europe, especially in eastern europe. i would like to emphasize something which my predecessors have not said quite so clearly: european structural policy also provides an incentive for innovation in regions which are not traditionally assisted. i would like to stress the importance of objective ii 'employment and competitiveness'. this instrument is used to support the international orientation of infrastructure and innovation. these impulses, also in the traditional economic centres of europe, will have growth effects for the eu as a whole. we all benefit from it in the end. but we are not just supporting growth and european model projects through structural aid. i would like to emphasize that promoting the competitiveness of regions also contributes to the acceptance of the european idea in western europe. this is particularly true of the social fund. however, this also applies to objective ii, territorial cooperation. the border associations are living the european idea, whether through cross-border social institutions, business areas or business meetings. it is important to have this form of european support. we therefore support the commission's proposal in principle. but we must also think very hard about how we can maintain the political content of structural policy with less money. we will have to reorganize structural and agricultural financing. that means: we need a binding national co-financing of agriculture. we need rules to facilitate private co-financing. we will have to consider loan financing in the future also in the structural programmes. if we cut, we must cut across all the sectors and not at the expense of individual regions or programmes. the bottom line is that european structural aid is successful. we should fight for the political content. we call on the heads of state and government to take a stand here in favour of the european regions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european social fund is the main instrument for implementing european employment policy. for 2000-06, €80 billion was earmarked to fight unemployment and promote education and training. germany alone received 12 billion euros. the priority for 2007-13 is to promote the adaptability of workers and enterprises and the extension of working life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i welcome the involvement of the social partners in the design and implementation of projects and the joint efforts to improve the exchange of best practices. i am, however, opposed to the commission's considerations of allocating esf action to the two areas of convergence and regional competitiveness and employment. this creates - as my colleague mr silva peneda has rightly pointed out - something new, namely a europe of different rates of progress. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the member states. we need solidarity. it is unacceptable that the commission should only approve esf funds if they are co-financed from public funds. the budgetary constraints would mean that many projects would have to die. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my home country, germany, they are carried out with great success in the training centres of the craft organizations. it is a place where new, up-to-date and important economic knowledge is conveyed. the epp-ed group therefore calls for these measures to be continued in favour of trainees, including financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises. i would ask all those who are serious about supporting smes to take the opportunity and support this motion. smes are the backbone of the european economy.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was here two and a half hours ago and it is regrettable that we are having another rather unreasonable delay before we can begin this debate, especially on such an important subject. i have to say that it is no wonder that europe's competitiveness is so weak, when it is not possible to adhere to simple rules and timetables. i hope that the bureau will consider this and also do something about it with a view to the future. i welcome this opportunity to discuss women's rights in turkey on the basis of mrs bozkurt's excellent report at a particularly important moment in eu-turkey relations. last week, the commission submitted the negotiating framework for turkey to the member states and it is the most rigorous framework ever presented by the commission. it states that the union expects turkey to sustain the process of reform and ensure its determined implementation to respect fully the rule of law and human rights in all walks of life and in all corners of the country. i have said that in the negotiations with turkey the journey is at least as important as the destination, but to have a meaningful journey you need a destination and it is precisely the prospect of eu accession that provides turkey with such an aim and gives the european union credible leverage to influence issues such as women's rights in turkey. let's be frank with each other. no other perspective would give turkey the same incentive to adopt and implement european values on gender equality as the prospect of its becoming a member of the union. this is the secret of the success of our enlargement policy and let us not forget this secret. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. it is a well-researched and comprehensive report that addresses many of the issues identified by the commission in its regular reports. the report's recommendations should be taken on board by all relevant parties. i particularly welcome the report's focus on promoting women's participation in the workforce, increasing the representation of women in decision-making positions and combating domestic violence against women, and especially the need for more shelters for the victims of violence. i share the rapporteur's appreciation of the turkish government's efforts to introduce constitutional and legislative reforms, for example the penal code, which addresses the situation of women and promotes gender equality. the new penal code has been criticised in some respects, but overall it represents a clearly positive development that modernises the criminal system, as it includes many improvements for women. i shall give you some very concrete examples. the penal code implies and leads to the criminalisation of marital rape, the abolition of discrimination against non-virgin and unmarried women, the criminalisation of sexual harassment in the workplace, the abolition of the patriarchal concept of the head of family, and equal rights to children born out of wedlock. all this is included in the new penal code. now it is a matter of implementation, implementation, implementation. finally, i would like to underline that women's rights will be a main priority for the commission in the process of accession negotiations with turkey and we shall assess the state of women's rights in depth in our next regular report, which the commission will adopt on 9 november this year.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i read a wonderful report last week in a leading german monthly magazine about three turkish businesswomen. if you read today's report, you will see how wide the gap is in turkey. our main concern is to help human rights, in this case women's rights, to make a breakthrough. violence against women, including domestic violence, so-called honour killings, forced marriage, the high rate of illiteracy among women, all of this is alarming. many hundreds of thousands of girls are not allowed to go to school because of the backwardness of their parents or because of the lack of infrastructure. all this applies in particular to kurdish women. laws have been passed - the commissioner has just said this - but we have to wait for their implementation. i very much hope that the commission will press for this. but honor killings and forced marriages are also and especially a problem that affects turkish immigrant women and thus our own society. the underrepresentation of turkish women in parliaments should also be changed by the parties by appropriate means. but to impose quotas and a zip-lock system on turkey is, to put it mildly, a travesty. we should try this first in our own countries. i hope that the resolution we are going to adopt together will give the women's associations in turkey a means of talking to their political representatives in turkey. the amendments are necessary because these violations are human rights violations which should be stopped regardless of the aspiration to become a member of the european union. i hope that this will gradually dawn on the politicians in turkey.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on behalf of the socialist group. the report is a very well-founded report. it comes at the right time and we have had countless discussions, both with the women's committee in turkey and here in the european parliament. we have spoken to the ngos, we have spoken to the political class and to the social partners. the result was a wide-ranging debate in the committee on women's rights and a report which was supported by almost all the political groups. the report makes it very clear that there has been a lot of movement in turkey to conform to the acquis of the european union. on june 1st, the new penal code came into force. this, of course, must be implemented and the pressure maintained. but turkey must also be given some time to do so. marital rape is now a criminal offence, and we have branded crimes in the name of honor for what they are, namely very dishonorable and criminal acts. now it is time for turkey to take the next step and put women in political office. a quota of 4% of women in the turkish parliament is unacceptable, a quota of 1% in the municipal parliaments is negligible. the women need our help and the urgent appeal of the women's organizations is to find clear words here in parliament and say: please support us with quotas, support us with best practice methods, but put it in the resolution! and i think we should. we should also denounce violence against women more and put it on the agenda. the negotiations are due to start on 3 october and this report is an important element in that process.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of the green group for this report. i hope that tomorrow not only parliament will send a clear signal. i would like the commission to give greater emphasis to equal opportunities policy. i think that in the past, unfortunately, it has only been a shadow existence. we must make it clear that we are not satisfied with progress on paper but are demanding the practical implementation of women's rights. i'm glad we prescribed the quota. moreover, we should consider asking for the same for the european union. if we have only 4% of women in national parliaments and 1% at local level, then this is really a political oath of revelation, a testimony to poverty. it is urgently needed, and it cannot be achieved by anything other than quotas. we have already made our position quite clear in the resolution of 8 march against forced marriage. i therefore ask again for support for our proposal for immediate registration of newborns, in order to prevent underage girls from being declared adults and thus de facto legitimising forced marriage.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we in the gue/ngl group support mrs bozkurt's report and will support it tomorrow in the vote. the report makes it clear that despite the improvement in the situation of women in turkey, as evidenced by legislation on so-called honour killings and marital rape, much remains to be done in the social, economic and political spheres. we in the gue/ngl group believe it is important that a political solution be found for the south-east of turkey and that the disadvantage in the kurdish areas be brought to an end. we are concerned that women in the backward rural areas should have more opportunities for employment and education and that projects that support these should be supported. i therefore included in the report an invitation to the turkish government to cooperate with the mayors of the kurdish region ! the commission has also proposed that the member states should provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the programme. improving the situation of women in turkey is an important step in the accession negotiations with turkey.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank mrs emine bozkurt very warmly for the excellent report she has presented. i believe that the issue of equal rights for women in turkey is not one but the central issue in the context of turkey's aspirations to membership of the european union. as an educator and social worker, i would also like to say something positive: if the turkish daily milliyet, for example, has started a campaign under the slogan "daddy, send me to school!", then this is also something we can put on our flag. this is happening against the background of eu accession plans. for example, when the turkish media group dogan is working against domestic violence, that is also something to be welcomed. i believe that in the coming years turkey will also have to find a new social consensus on the issue of the headscarf. it cannot be right that in the eastern turkish city of erzurum, mothers with headscarves are not allowed on the university campus if they want to participate in their children's celebration. i am for a clear no to the compulsory headscarf. but no to a perverted secularism which forbids mothers to visit their children at school!
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs niebler, and the committee on women's rights and gender equality for their important report on our proposal for a revised directive. the proposal aims to simplify, modernise and improve community legislation on equal treatment for men and women in employment. the revised directive aims to concentrate in a single document the relevant passages of the directives relating to this subject, so as to make them more understandable and practical for all citizens. it is part of an effort to make the union more open, clearer and more focused on everyday life. the proposal goes beyond simple consolidation and combines simplification with careful modernisation. the most important elements of this substantial improvement are the harmonisation of terminology and, above all, definitions to ensure the coherence of legislation. explicit application of a number of horizontal provisions in employee social security schemes and incorporation of the well-established case law of the court of justice to increase legal certainty and clarity. it is true that the proposal does not introduce new policies or innovative concepts. on the other hand, it must be stressed that we are in the special context of the process of revision under the interinstitutional agreement. this legislative technique offers the great advantage of allowing the community administration to improve union law in a legislative way while preserving what has already been achieved, without re-igniting debate and calling into question the solutions found in the case of politically sensitive and complex issues. the commission has sought to use the process and potential of the revision to better promote equality between men and women.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the vote tomorrow on the report on the recast directive marks the end of very intensive deliberations in the committee on women's rights and gender equality. i am sure you will understand that mrs niebler is very sorry that she cannot be present at this debate today. it's because of a grieving incident in her immediate family. i ask the honourable members to understand that she has asked me to make her statement on her behalf. mrs niebler thanks you all for the good and fair cooperation in the committee in the preparation of this important report. the commission has proposed a somewhat difficult balancing act between merely consolidating existing legislation and partially improving existing rules. the existing legal framework should be made more comprehensible, modernised and simplified, and the case law of the european court of justice should also be incorporated into the consolidated text. as a former member of the legal affairs committee, i can only support this objective. we need more transparency, more clarity, more clarity about what europe is asking for in this area, and that is why we support this approach. as is well known, the proposal now falls at a time when the implementation of community standards is being discussed in the member states in a highly controversial manner. i can only recall the heated debate in germany, where the red-green federal government is even going far beyond european standards and is facing political defeat. that's not the point. this directive deals exclusively with equal opportunities for men and women in matters of employment and occupation - essentially a core element of european policy on equal opportunities and also an area of undisputed competence of the european union. what has happened after decades of efforts to achieve equality? despite efforts to achieve equality, particularly in working life, we still find a gender pay gap of some 16%. men are twice as likely to be in leadership positions and three times as likely to be in top positions. in the top decision-making bodies of the 50 largest publicly traded companies, only 10% are women. the committee has debated three complex issues with some controversy. the first point: several colleagues have called for the inclusion of parental leave in the directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. given the wide variation in the rules in the member states, the length of parental leave ranges from three months to three years, and the enormous changes which would be required if the directive were extended would require intensive discussion and also an impact assessment. the compromise reached is therefore worth supporting, in that it calls on the social partners, who have already started to work in this field, to undertake a corresponding review of the existing arrangements. the second point which has been the subject of critical discussion is the so-called unisex tariffs. the committee has at one point, by a very narrow majority, voted in favour of no longer differentiating between men and women in the field of occupational pensions. but mrs niebler warns very explicitly against having this discussion again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is very important to mention this to mrs niebler. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we would overload this process of consolidating existing law. the same argument applies to the third question, where we said that more pressure must be put on the member states and the social partners to improve the situation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the clarity and comprehensibility of the law is a value in itself. that is the aim of the directive and i ask you all to support it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union has always been a beacon for women's equality in the past. we have spoken a great deal about the community of values, the value of equality in the european union, in the debate on turkey. i hope that value will not be undermined. it is essential for us that the occupational pensions be included in this report, because we know that women are discriminated against on the grounds of sex, because they do not know in the workplace whether they or their male colleagues are living longer. the fact that we still have different occupational pensions is not only incompatible with article 13 of the treaty but also with the principle of equality in the workplace. i therefore expect and hope that this proposal will receive broad support from the women's committee. i also think it is not right that mr wuermeling and others here in passing are making a general attack on the application of the anti-discrimination directives outside the working world. i also expect you, commissioner špidla, to stand up again clearly and unequivocally for the anti-discrimination directives, not only within working life but also outside working life. in women's politics, you can't say "hoo" and then "hoot" again. we must make it clear that it is a value in the european union. we must not abandon the policy of equal opportunities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this directive deals with the situation of women in the labour market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the european parliament. i hope that we will reach agreement tomorrow, and i hope that it was also a mid-term decision by mr wuermeling to bring the anti-discrimination law into this. there is already a national election campaign; however, it has nothing to do with this directive. the point is that women, who have been promised equal rights in european law from the outset under article 119 of the treaty, should finally be able to see them implemented. many colleagues have mentioned the areas where this has not yet been done, where there is a need to raise awareness of direct and indirect discrimination. discrimination starts in the minds, but we also need to change the rights so that they are abolished and the case law and national implementation can be moved in this direction. political will is needed. the commission has shown that political will. the european parliament is doing even more. i hope that tomorrow we can prevail and send a clear signal to the citizens: we are still the driving force for women's rights in europe!
the commission has already done so. i would like to ask you a question about this: you rejected the proposal of the committee on women's rights and gender equality on two essential points, namely parental leave and occupational pensions - that was the heart of this proposal. you said that the issue of company pensions was a very important one and that we would address it at some point. i think, mr commissioner špidla, that is what you promised us when we discussed the directive. ) i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me ask you a question. you said this was an important issue that would be addressed at some point. i would like to ask you: when will it be taken up? in what form will it be taken up? what is your specific timetable for this? i really want to ask you to take a position on the occupational pensions - you have also assured me of this - because it is in fact contrary to the treaty, ... (the president interrupts)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would also like to thank the rapporteur for dealing with this difficult subject. in the end, it was only a few points, but very competitive. i do not want to go into that specifically now, but rather, in the light of what has been discussed in the last few weeks, i would like to deal with two points where this legislation is making progress in practical terms as well as in principle. on the one hand, i believe that the classic case of road traffic accidents - this has already been discussed in this debate - is a relevant development and rounding off. this is the case where we can most readily see citizens 'colluding' with europe in the true sense of the word and then asking themselves: how far do my rights go? the second point is of a fundamental nature, namely the right of the press. in the last few weeks we have seen that the fourth force, which is closely watching how the first three forces work together, and which is, in a sense, the first lobby of the citizen, is itself becoming a lobby. you might think, based on the caroline decision, that this area only affects the rich, the beautiful, the famous, the important or the noble. but in its form it can also affect ordinary people, as we have only known since the lost honor of katharina blum. we are living in the dawn of a european understanding of fundamental rights. we must accept that this understanding of fundamental rights can also bring about the collision between freedom of expression and personal rights. it is therefore good that we are trying to make a practical distinction here, but also to include a review clause in the regulation. one last point, quite unspectacular but important: ms wallis has suggested that we should allow a new way for law to evolve ... (the speaker closes early.)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, as you know, with regard to the well-known incident with a klm flight, the united states authorities indicated that the flight was prevented from entering us airspace after two passengers were identified from advance passenger information – api data. api data is essentially passport and ticket information collected at check-in to speed up immigration controls at the destination. the transfer of api data by airlines prior to arrival at the point of destination constitutes normal airline practice. according to the information available to the commission, air carriers only send api information to border control authorities. that information is not retrieved by the us authorities from computer reservation systems. the commission also wishes to clarify once again that the passengers concerned could not be identified on the basis of passenger name record – pnr – data. that instrument does not cover flights overflying the united states, but only flights from a! nd to the united states. as such, it is not relevant with regard to cases such as the klm incident. in the commission’s view, the use of api data by the united states authorities does not seem to constitute a circumvention of the pnr agreement. the commission will be particularly attentive to any circumvention of the agreement and will raise this issue in the framework of the joint review. the commission wishes to underline that there is no current requirement for air carriers to provide the us with api data on passengers for over-flights. the no-fly list is drawn up by the us authorities and contains the names of people they do not wish to fly into the us on the basis of us intelligence and risk-threat assessment criteria. it is produced by the united states and that country alone is responsible for it. the european union has a rigorous policy on aviation security, but that does not include a no-fly list. in the commission’s view, a no-fly list does not mean that the people included are necessarily suspected of any wrongdoing. the united states simply decided that it does not want them to enter the country for various reasons, based on a number of rather general criteria. it is, of course, very annoying for somebody to be denied access to the united states because his or her name is on the no-fly list. in this regard, the commission will seek clarification of the us no-fly list in its talks with the united states. for example, the early and effective forwarding to airlines of an up-to-date no-fly list is an essential aspect. the commission is, therefore, seeking to better clarify these criteria with the american authorities, in order to prevent future cases of false positives. since the start of the us-eu talks in march 2003, the commission has been able to secure from the united states the undertaking that the american congress would require the appointment of a chief privacy officer within the department of homeland security who has to report annually to congress and whose findings are binding on the department. the chief privacy officer has agreed to receive and handle in an expedited manner cases lodged by data protection authorities in the european union on behalf of citizens who consider that their complaints have not been satisfactorily addressed by the department of homeland security. so the eu citizen has stronger assurance of fair treatment. as regards the joint review of the united states undertakings, the latter provide for a joint review of their implementation, to be conducted by the united states authorities and the commission, the latter assisted by representatives of european law enforcement authorities and data protection supervisors. the joint review will take place after the summer break, presumably in september. the review aims to provide a clear picture of the way the undertakings function. it is the commission’s intention to inform this parliament of the outcome of this joint review and any important developments. finally, national data protection authorities will be part of the commission-led team conducting the joint review. this should allow the national data protection authorities, the so-called article 29 working party, to assess fully the implementation of the undertakings. i am pleased to tell you that despite differences in view of the united states pnr package, there is excellent cooperation on the implementation of this package between the article 29 working party and the commission, and this cooperation will continue.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i can say for my group that your explanations of this question were very convincing. let us remember that it is good that we want to make a joint assessment of the agreements on pnr data. we're in a difficult situation here. the interest of each member state within the union, on the one hand, and the united states on the other, in protection against terrorist acts must be balanced against the protection of the personal data of individual citizens. it's a difficult process. i hope that the americans will also keep their promise to us, namely that the data we provide them will be collected and analysed only for the protection against terrorism, that it will be destroyed when it is no longer needed, and that we will inform each other about internal security issues. i do believe that we have a good chance that the european union-us collusion will lead to an outcome that both meets data protection requirements and reduces our common concern about terrorist attacks. but let us look to the future. i think it is important to say this to the american people again and again: whether we like unilateral security measures or not, we want to protect our citizens in the same way as the americans want to protect their citizens. i therefore believe that the right approach is, commissioner, to assess the risks to our passengers together with the united states and to draw joint conclusions so that we can work together to increase the safety of our citizens.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. after years of oppression and lack of freedom, the people of iraq today, despite all the difficulties they face, have a chance for a future of peace and freedom. we must do everything we can to seize this opportunity! what does this mean from a commercial point of view? firstly, my committee welcomes the strategy for engagement in iraq proposed by the commission and calls on all concerned to support iraq's transformation into a diversified market economy. secondly, the planned accession to the wto is a decisive step towards the integration of iraq into the world economy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. thirdly, the united nations must take the lead in coordinating reconstruction. fourthly, with its oil reserves, iraq has many natural resources. the resumption of oil and gas trade is also in our interest and will make a considerable contribution to the security of our energy supply. it is therefore important for both sides that the legislation in the energy sector should be aligned and that adequate conditions for investment should be created. but the proceeds must be reinvested in iraq. otherwise, sustainable reconstruction is not possible. fifthly, we need close cooperation between the partners involved in international financial aid or debt relief. and sixthly, we need iraq to cooperate closely with its neighbours in the region, because only then can a favourable investment climate be created throughout the region. in conclusion, i would like to thank the members of the foreign affairs committee, which has almost completely accepted our position. ladies and gentlemen, the window of opportunity for change in iraq will not be open indefinitely. let us use it for the good of the people.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. fourteen days ago we had a delegation from the provisional parliament of iraq in the committee, led by the president and his deputies. all groups were represented, shiites, sunnis and kurds. i was pleasantly surprised to see the way in which these leaders of their groups are interested in finding a solution that includes reconciliation and that brings together religious and ethnic groups, and that this is being tried in a serious discussion. the chairman of the constitutional committee was also there. i believe that a crucial prerequisite for lasting peace in this country is to find a balance of power in a kind of federal structure that is guaranteed by the constitution even for bad times . in this way, a practice could be achieved in which everyone has the right to have his interests protected, but also his religious and ethnic identity protected, and this is also reflected in the cultural sphere. i believe that this is a crucial prerequisite for success. it was often the case that in these states that were formerly under colonial rule, a small group held the reins of power, in this case the sunnis. i believe that this is also a major cause of terrorism. we must make this clear - as you have said, commissioner - so that the benefits for the people are visible. it must realize that the terrorists are trying to make democracy and power sharing impossible, that they do not want stability, because stability is a prerequisite for investments that would improve the situation of the country. in this way they want to regain their old positions of power or, for ideological reasons, to prevent any democratic development at all. i was against the war then, but that doesn't matter now. the european union must be able to play a leading role in this process. the old divisions between us must be overcome in order to create the possibility, through a multilateral approach, of bringing stability and democracy to this country, and on this basis, to bring benefits to us throughout the region.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. on the occasion of the forthcoming g8 summit, i reaffirm the basic demands of many african movements in particular: ensure fair trade, end the debt crisis of poor countries, raise substantially more resources for aid and ensure that this aid is of the highest quality. i ask the european union to regard these demands as directed at itself and to strive consistently for a just world economic order. i would like to make it clear to what extent oda, official development assistance and partnership agreements are a form of development aid for european companies and firms. the eu's development policy summit is expected to be the first to address the question of how the eu will ensure that such scandalous economic aid is not given.
mr president, i strongly support the proposal made by our colleague mr stubb. he is quite right. we need a comprehensive africa strategy. the presidency representative just spoke about soft power, where the european union is successful. i think he is absolutely right, but we still need to translate this into positive action. talking about action against poverty is wonderful, but it is certainly not enough, especially if you consider that we have been putting so much aid into africa for many years and the outcome is not always very positive. the same applies when we talk about trade and poverty reduction. there is a strong connection. we know this, but do we really understand it? i am speaking on behalf of the committee on international trade. i would recommend an africa strategy, which should be the subject of renewed debate by the end of the uk presidency, taking all aspects into consideration. it would be great if the uk presidency could reflect on this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have, as chairman of our group, quite deliberately taken the floor at the end of this debate. i am a little disappointed that i am the only chairman of a parliamentary group to speak on this subject. this is an issue on which the leadership of a group must actually stand behind the colleagues who are doing the work in our ranks in the fight against poverty. i would like to say to the members who are always working on this subject, not only because of the british presidency and its initiative, but in general: the socialist group considers the fight against poverty in africa and the world to be a central element of its work. i want to take a moment of my time to talk about an unknown person: the mother in front of her dead child. in the small town where i was mayor, there were many men and women, but especially many women who had lost children during the war. when i visited a retirement anniversary, the worst event i had to talk about with women of the war generation was the loss of a beloved child. this wound never heals. when we look at africa, we see countless mothers -- countless -- sitting in front of their dead children, stunned, grieving, and left alone. i wish for all of us that we would take this picture to heart, because nothing should encourage us more, nothing should commit us more to take more seriously the fight against poverty which the british presidency of the council has placed at the centre of its action, than the little human feeling that a woman who has lost her child cannot be left alone in this world if one claims to want to create a humanitarian world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i want to make a concrete proposal: let us help these women and many, many others who need our solidarity by taking a small action. if the large multinational and global companies donate 0.25% - that is, a quarter of a percent - of their fees for monetary transactions to an african fund, if we here in parliament budget a quarter of a percent of the expenditure on our international monetary operations and pay into a fund for aid to africa, we have a large sum that the economy and, for example, we in the european union can mobilise together to make a very concrete contribution, including through an individual contribution from each individual, to the fight against poverty. that would be a step forward which we could perhaps discuss together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i have a point of order. i refer to rules 146 and 148 of the rules of procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say to you personally that i am very grateful to you for the efforts you make in each plenary session before the votes to ensure that the last ten minutes before the votes are conducted in a manner that is half-dignified. unfortunately, that is not possible. the colleagues who come from their offices to vote enter the chamber and do not understand what you are saying because there is no interpretation. the colleagues are talking, standing in groups in front of the attendance register, going to their seats, having to settle something with colleagues. everything is understandable, everything is acceptable. but it is totally unacceptable for the representatives of the council and the commission to have to speak here under such conditions. i can't do that, and i'm ashamed of it. i don't think that's right. (applause from the centre) i do not want to have to go through this again in every plenary session. that is not the image of a worthy parliament. therefore, i ask that you do the following: because the rights of the members must be respected on the one hand, but also the rights of the other institutions on the other, i ask that we pause between the end of the debate and the beginning of the vote. (the speaker interrupts his speech)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have always heard from the commission that it is not prepared to put forward a new proposal if the common position is rejected. i would like to recall the interinstitutional agreement we reached with president prodi on 15 september 1999, under which the commission undertook to take initiatives if parliament so requests. i have no doubt that parliament will ask the commission to submit a new proposal. i would remind the commission that it has a duty to make such a proposal and that it must then do so. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a serious matter. mr rack was right: we once had a fixed rule in the house on voting hours. it's not about eating or not eating. but i have visitors here who have traveled 1,000 kilometers to talk to me. i have to be back in the plenary by 3:00. i really ask that in future we abide by the rules we have once established. we cannot vote on everything on wednesday just because there are lazy people who think they should leave on wednesday. we could have voted on the last five reports as well as thursday at noon. i ask the bureau to organise and plan properly, as it has done in the past.
thank you, colleague. we will take note of your comments and forward them to the departments concerned. the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i have to say, madam president, i have joined the great majority here in voting against this draft directive. i think that was also a victory for reason in the european parliament today, a victory for reason against the lobbying interests of a few big it producers. we have thus set a precedent for consumer choice. we also made it clear that there is a future for information technology companies in europe, because innovation and the freedom of small and mediumsized enterprises to develop their own products were at stake. i am very pleased that we have today succeeded in giving a clear red card to the plans to legalize software patents. we also supported those who are for open source, who are for free software development. we have also given special support to the medium-sized software companies, because they would have suffered immense damage from this patent directive. i am glad that we have achieved this success. i hope we can achieve something similar for the revision of the bioprotection directive.
in writing. war of aggression against iraq legitimized: the resolution before the european parliament on the decision 'on increased eu involvement in iraq' points the way in a completely wrong direction. it is stated that one wants to "get rid of the events of the past". all the claims that no weapons of mass destruction were found in iraq were dismissed in advance. the fact that the united states and its allies waged a war of aggression against iraq is obviously to be forgotten. the resolution also calls for 'support for the active steps taken by the european union together with the iraqi authorities in the fight against terrorism', without missing a single sentence on possible causes. the eu is expected to provide even more funding in the future. the fact is that the funds so far have been administered in part by the world bank trust and not in their entirety by the united nations; the world bank trust has so far only used a small part of the funds at its disposal. the transparency of the accounts by the iraqi authorities is also a clear failure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. on this basis, the democratic reconstruction of iraq cannot be guaranteed.
in writing. the european commission has launched a new initiative to combat poverty in europe. hundreds of thousands demonstrated against the short-term postponement of the elections. police forces were deployed against the demonstrators. there were many deaths. the eu parliament almost unanimously condemned the actions of the security forces. a committee of inquiry was immediately set up to determine whether eu-trained police units were also involved in the killing of protesters. at the same time, the eu parliament decided to immediately recall all eu military advisers from france. this story is true, except for a few small details. on 30 june, the army and police in the congolese capital kinshasa used force against demonstrators who had responded to a call by opposition parties for peaceful protests against the postponement of elections. agency reports indicate multiple deaths. in addition, a state of emergency was imposed. the european union is currently training police forces in congo (eupol kinshasa) which are also deployed in kinshasa. in addition, since 8 june 2005, eu military advisers (eusec d.r. congo) have been working in the 'office of the minister of defence' and 'the general staff'. of course, the eu parliament did not meet in a special session. nor has a committee of inquiry been set up to determine whether eu-trained police forces were involved in the killings. the eu military advisers continue to be the most senior in the drc.
member of the commission. mr president, almost 10 years ago to the day, on 11 july 1995, srebrenica fell. no-one should ever forget the horrors that unfolded during the following days and weeks. we have a duty to remember so that we will see no other srebrenicas; so that ethnic hatred and destructive nationalism will be definitively buried in bosnia and herzegovina, in the balkans and in the whole of europe. i shall go to the commemoration ceremony in srebrenica next week to honour the victims and their families. i shall go there to express europe’s support for peace, reconciliation and democratic development and for the european future of the western balkans. i also expect all the parties to ensure that the ceremony will be a dignified event and will contribute to the reconciliation process. reconciliation is a very painful process after a devastating war like this, after violations of the most fundamental human rights, but it is also a necessary process. the european union, as the greatest peace and reconciliation project, can testify to that and serve as an example of what can be achieved, including in the balkans. justice is an essential element of reconciliation. there can be no reconciliation until war crime suspects are held accountable in a court of law. in this respect, the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, the icty, plays a crucial role. the countries’ cooperation with the icty has steadily improved, which is an encouraging sign, but more remains to be done to achieve full cooperation. only then can this very sad chapter in the region’s history be truly closed. the people carrying the main responsibility for the srebrenica massacre are still at large. this is unacceptable. mladić and karadžić should have no place in the region. their place is in the hague. (applause) the european union has major responsibilities in ensuring peace and stability and enhancing democracy and prosperity on our continent. this is what the european union is all about. as mr alexander stated regarding the eu’s policy in the western balkans on behalf of the presidency, the inclusion of our balkan neighbours in the european integration process has been a powerful incentive for enhancing stability, human rights, the rights of minorities and the rule of law in the region. this is no small achievement, and we must make this perspective firm and tangible and thus ensure steady progress towards the respect of european values. an important and intensive period for the balkans lies ahead of us. the kosovo standards review is a work in progress and the status talks are likely to start in the autumn. the prompt resolution of this issue is very important for the stability and progress of the whole region. we are about to open negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia and montenegro. the commission is ready to contribute to the timeline mr alexander presented, i.e. this autumn, to get the negotiations started. we also aim to start negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina soon, as long as the country fulfils the remaining criteria. when we have fully examined the conduct of last sunday’s elections in albania, we can determine the future pace in the negotiations on a stablisation and association agreement with albania as well. the commission’s opinion on the membership application of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is under preparation. we are also looking forward to opening accession negotiations with croatia, as soon as the one remaining condition is satisfied. we are all aware of the serious problems that we are presently facing in the european union. it is only natural that enlargement policy will be a part of the broader debate on the future of europe. i was therefore satisfied that the june european council very clearly confirmed the union’s existing commitments on enlargement policy and on the european perspective of the western balkans. this was very wise. our enlargement policy has helped transform countries in regions that are still very fragile. we shall continue to help them to become stable, democratic and prosperous societies able to join the union. the building of a better future for the western balkans is indeed the best way to commemorate the victims of srebrenica. it serves the cause of peace, stability and prosperity in europe, and our own vital interests. i am looking forward to continuing to work closely with european parliament and its relevant committees to this end. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. srebrenica is a symbol of a broken promise after 1945: never again mass murder! ten years after srebrenica, western governments must also ask themselves why they did not intervene in time to prevent expulsion, murder and war. in the early 1990s they turned their backs and let milosevic, karadžić and mladić run free to deport, rape and ultimately murder, as in srebrenica. in srebrenica, serb criminals slaughtered thousands of muslims in cowardly fashion, under the eyes of an under-mandated un force. we commemorate this massacre today and call on all to make efforts to hand over the perpetrators and the cowardly fugitives, karadžić and mladić, to the tribunal. without this, reconciliation in bosnia and herzegovina will not be possible. it is good that senior serbian politicians are attending the srebrenica memorial. but they should also prevent some serbian politicians from equating and adding up the serbian victims of the war in bosnia-herzegovina with the victims of srebrenica. the failure of the serbian parliament and the parliament of republika srpska to condemn these massacres is a sign of immaturity and stubbornness. how can the serbian people do this if their representatives do not set a good example? this day is an occasion to remind serbs in particular that reconciliation is only possible if one also acknowledges one's own guilt. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. the germans were all to blame then, but now it is all serbs. therefore, politicians, religious leaders, and the media should do all they can to promote reconciliation. but the eu must not lose sight of its efforts and its responsibility to help the countries of the region to put the tragic past behind them and to look to a better future. the young people of the region deserve to be supported. but it is their politicians and their parents and grandparents who have the duty to pave the way for them, to call the crimes in srebrenica crimes and to extend a hand of reconciliation. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we could talk for a long time about the mistakes of that time, and i saw it on the spot and in parliament at that time. i would like to focus on the mistakes of today. firstly, mr president-in-office, you said that negotiations with croatia, a country which is important for the stability of the whole region, could only be held after mr gotovina had been extradited. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. none of us knows where mr. gotovina is. if you know it, i ask you to put it on the table of this house and to forward it to the croatian government. we should do with croatia what you are wrongly trying to do with turkey, namely, start negotiations. and it is only if there is no full cooperation - we have a review committee for that - that we should stop or interrupt these negotiations. but the negotiations should start, because croatia is a central european democracy which is stabilising the whole region. secondly, bosnia: daniel cohn-bendit is absolutely right: the dayton agreement has failed. we need a bosnia-herzegovina of three peoples with equal rights and, above all, of free citizens. otherwise, this structure will again become the starting point for new dangers and serious conflicts. thirdly, kosovo: i was in kosovo only a few days ago. if we continue to allow the peace-oriented policy of president rugova to run into the void, radical elements will become stronger. we saw the bombings a few days ago. i therefore call on the council to move swiftly towards a strictly conditional, long-term, internationally controlled but inevitable independence for kosovo. the fourth point concerns minorities. we talk about minorities all the time. in kosovo, there are guaranteed seats for minorities. in serbia, a new electoral law has been in place for some years now, which excludes any representative of a minority from having a seat in parliament. we need uniform standards, only then will we be able to develop a credible policy.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, in the 30 years since the european union established diplomatic relations with china, both the european union and china, and indeed the eu-china relationship, have seen quite remarkable change. the european union-china relationship is now as close as it has ever been. but now, more than ever it is crucial that the european union adapts to the challenge of china’s political and economic growth. european union economies need to be able to respond to the competition and the opportunities offered by china and other emerging economies in asia. the european union has many interests at stake in china and east asia more widely, clearly a highly important region in the 21st century. it is vital that the european union and china both work together, with other international partners, to tackle global problems. discussion between the european union and china is now rightly on a broad range of topics, including regional security, human rights, environment, education, migration, climate change and transportation. just last week, the first eu-china aviation summit took place. all these discussions bring benefits to both parties. the european union already has a lot of experience to share and often china is approaching problems in a new way and the european union can learn from its fresh approach. the eighth european-china summit in september in bejing will be an opportunity to celebrate 30 years of official relations between the european union and china and to look forward to the next 30 years. this will be an opportunity for the european union and china to work together as global partners on global challenges. we look forward to this chance for the european union and china to combine their efforts in order to address the challenges of climate change and energy security through dialogue and practical cooperation. of course there are differences between us, but it is a sign of the maturity of the relationship that we can discuss these constructively, for example, through the eu-china human rights dialogue. human rights are of course a fundamental part of european union foreign policy. the european union acknowledges that china has made considerable progress over the last decade in its social-economic development and welcomes steps towards the strengthening the rule of law and cooperation with un human rights mechanisms. but much more is needed. the european union continues to have serious concerns about human rights in china, such as freedom of expression, freedom of religion and freedom of assembly. journalists, lawyers, and members of ngos continue to be harassed. the death penalty continues to be used extensively; there is widespread administrative detention and we have serious concerns about the use of torture. the situation in tibet and xinjiang remain a concern. the council welcomes china’s work towards the ratification of the international covenant on civil and political rights and hopes that as this work continues there will be real improvements in the day-to-day lives of all china’s citizens. another issue which china and the european union discuss frequently is that of taiwan. the last 30 years have seen tremendous change in taiwan too. taiwan is one of the most successful asian tigers, experiencing an enviable 5.9 % economic growth just last year. gdp per capita in real terms is considered to be on a par with japan and hong kong. but change there has not just been economic, but also political. thirty years ago chiang kai-shek died and his son chiang ching-kuo continued in power thereafter. it was not until 1996 that taiwan had its first democratic presidential election. now taiwan is a full democracy. the european union’s member states have no diplomatic relations with taiwan. nevertheless, its economic and commercial ties with taiwan are strong. taiwan is of course a member of the world trade organisation. taiwan and the european union also enjoy solid relations in other non-political areas, such as science, education, culture and various technical fields. however, other aspects of the cross- strait relationship are not so positive and this has consequences for regional security. in march this year china introduced its ‘anti-secession’ legislation with the intention, it said, of halting or deterring taiwanese moves towards independence. it was largely a codification of existing chinese policy but it made reference to china’s strong commitment to peaceful reunification and more disturbingly made reference to the use of non-peaceful means should circumstances warrant. the description of what those circumstances might be was rather vague. the european union reacted by reaffirming its adherence to its one-china policy and its opposition to any use of force to resolve this issue. the european union’s position has always been that the question of taiwan should be resolved peacefully through constructive dialogue and it has urged both sides to avoid unilateral measures which might heighten tensions. in a statement at the beginning of this year, the european union welcomed the agreement to cross-strait charter flights over the lunar new year. it considered that this type of practical cooperation would help to promote dialogue and understanding between the parties and hoped that ways could be found to build upon it. we note the dialogue between the mainland and visiting opposition taiwanese leaders and hope that the mainland will soon be able to commence similar dialogue with the elected leadership in taiwan. on regional matters, china and the european union share a common interest with others in a stable korean peninsula. given its influence with the dprk, china has a key role in efforts to achieve a nuclear-weapons-free peninsula, a role which the european union supports. the european union remains keen to contribute to peace and security in the asia and asia-pacific region. it is one of our key objectives. speaking for the united kingdom for a moment, we are keen to use the united kingdom’s presidency of the european union to take forward work in this area. the european union should aim to engage more actively in the political management of the regional security challenges. among current concerns, the european union has called for early and unconditional resumption of the six-party talks and for the complete verifiable and irreversible dismantling of any dprk nuclear weapons programme. we need to look further at ways to strengthen the european union’s contribution in regional fora such as asem and as a member of the asean regional forum, the only asia-wide multilateral forum on regional security. it also makes sense for the european union to develop strategic dialogues with other key players in the east asian region. the security of the region is not just a concern to those there, but to all of us. since china’s reform of the economy which began in 1978, its economy has grown by almost 10 % a year on average. in that time, chinese-european trade has grown more than fortyfold. the eu is now china’s most important trading partner, and china is the eu’s second most important trading partner, after the united states. in 2003, china became the world’s fourth largest trader, and its foreign trade continues to grow by 37 %, a growth rate unrivalled by any major trading nation. china has also overtaken the us as the largest recipient of foreign direct investment anywhere in the world. china has made considerable efforts to live up to its new role in the global economic system. to comply with its world trade organisation obligations and accession commitments, it has cut tariffs across the board and engaged in a thorough overhaul of laws and regulations. nevertheless, concerns remain. the business environment in china is still a difficult one for the foreign businesses that operate there. for example, laws to protect intellectual property rights are not implemented vigorously enough. the wto ministerial in hong kong this year provides an opportunity for the european union and china to work together once again to help achieve an ambitious and balanced outcome. with this tremendous economic growth in china has come change in other areas too. it was not until the mid-1990s that the european commission drew up its first asia strategy and china policy papers. this first policy paper attempted to define a long-term strategy to address china’s swift economic and indeed political development. at the same time, engagements stopped being rather haphazard and regular annual summits became the norm. in 1996, the first asia-europe meeting was held and two years later the first eu-china summit took place. against this backdrop of rapid change, the main legal framework for eu-china relations, the bilateral trade and economic co-operation agreement of 1985 is looking decidedly out of date. the european union is looking forward to the introduction of a new framework agreement that is more in keeping with the multifaceted relationship we enjoy today. i hope that during the period of the united kingdom’s presidency of the european union, progress can be made on this. we will also be looking for progress on a number of other issues, including climate change of course in this week when the g8 leaders gather in gleneagles, and towards market economy status for china. energy security is an issue of concern to all countries. it is a requirement of economic growth and development. current global levels of energy production and consumption are already considered as having a negative impact on the global climate, and greenhouse gas emissions are expected to rise over the coming decades. the european union and china face an important dual challenge, ensuring energy security and combating climate change. the european union recognises its obligation to reduce its own emissions while at the same time assisting countries such as china to meet their growing energy needs in a sustainable manner. the european union and china have significant and internationally respected scientific and technological expertise. there is therefore excellent scope for the european union and china to significantly strengthen collaboration in this important field. the european union and china do, of course, have differences. the agreement reached at the conclusion of the recent eu-china textile negotiations shows what can happen when we sit down to discuss those differences amicably and seek win-win solutions. china has acted, as the commissioner for trade, mr mandelson, said and i quote ‘as a responsible and valued partner’. the time available to me for these remarks to the parliament today is too short to encapsulate relationships which have evolved over 30 years, but i hope that others will now be able to contribute their thoughts on this important evolving relationship.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by welcoming mr alexander in his new role, especially here in parliament. we will have many debates together and it will be a pleasure to work with him. i am very happy about this debate, because the situation in asia and also in east asia is indeed a major strategic issue. asia is today not only the continent with the largest population but also with the highest economic growth rate and the highest rates of spending for research and development. the far eastern countries invest in their future and asia will, no doubt, be the continent at the centre of the world stage in the 21st century. we have to know that and prepare for it. security in the far east is a topic, therefore, of direct concern to european interests. it is part of the overall global responsibility for security and stability that lies at the heart of the european union’s role in foreign policy. moreover, stability in the far east directly impacts not only on the prosperity and the well-being of our citizens but also of the citizens of this continent. china, japan and the republic of korea are among the world’s top six economies, if the eu is counted as one. they also count among our major trading partners and are also key recipients of european foreign investment. japan, for its part, is also a major source of investment in europe, not least in some of the new member states. in short, instability in the most dynamic region in the world would have serious consequences that would be deeply felt in europe. what, therefore, are the european responses and what are the instruments at our disposal to address this issue? i would like to tackle that question now. let us look at the main issues at stake in east asia. over the medium-term future, three major policy issues will dominate the political agenda in east asia. firstly, how to respond to the rise of china. secondly, ensuring stability on the korean peninsula and, thirdly, a peaceful resolution of tensions between china and taiwan. the proper handling of these issues will have major implications both for our regional and wider security. by contrast, the degree of economic integration in east asia is also very impressive. however, this alone will not be sufficient to make east asia more stable or more peaceful, particularly as the dprk is still outside the emerging economic cooperation. moreover, unlike in europe in the later half of the 1980s, economic ties have not resulted in improved political relations. on the contrary, the economic rise of china and its assertive foreign policy have fanned concerns in some neighbouring countries that a more prosperous china could use its economic gains to pursue its national interests more forcefully and dominate the region both politically and economically. the china-japan rivalry has surfaced earlier and more visibly than expected by many observers. a trend in all east asian countries towards a more nationalistic orientation may set the stage for using bilateral conflicts as a valve for domestic consumption. in china, for instance, as part of the process to move away from ideological constraints, nationalism has been revived as a unifying theme. with a generational change in korea, anti-communism based on the traumatic experience of the korean war has lost its appeal. the new leadership, in line with the views of the younger generation often appears to see a forceful policy vis-à-vis north korea as more of a threat to peace than north korea’s nuclear programme. in japan, a nationalistic renaissance can be observed, not founded on a young generation movement, but on an elite’s wish to change a so-called ‘self-denigrating attitude’ in japan. this tendency in all three countries to favour nationalistic policies does not! bode well for solving the concrete political problems that will become more urgent in the years to come. moreover, with the technological rise of china, the economies may, in fact, move from complementarity to more intense competition and thereby heat up the political environment rather than cool it down. rising tensions are not a given, however. for instance, the meeting in jakarta on 23 april between japan’s prime minister koizumi and china’s president – at which i participated – was held specifically to de-escalate the tension and that demonstrates that both sides understand that they would stand to lose economically from rising tensions. it is unfortunate, therefore, that the follow-up steps complicated rather than calmed down the situation when vice prime minister wu yi abruptly cancelled a scheduled meeting with prime minister koizumi. if nonetheless managed well, the tokyo-beijing rivalry could lead to constructive competition and thus would open the way to addressing long-standing conflicts, as witnessed, for instance, by the india-china rapprochement, followed by a visit of prime minister koizumi to new delhi and tokyo’s increased interest in south east asia. in this regard, it is very interesting to see the european example of overcoming war hostilities a! nd cold war separation become a object of strong interest and study in east asia. this provides us with an opening that we should use to foster relations with all regional players. we are taking a number of concrete steps to address the various issues at hand in order to clearly voice europe’s views for a way forward and to express our concerns about the situation. there is a political dialogue. it is true that we are just celebrating our 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations. there is also a human rights dialogue and all the security issues are there and are being discussed. indeed, at the next summit with china, which will be held in september, we will try to come up with the idea of a more comprehensive and more ambitious framework agreement, because the old one is no longer fulfilling our most ambitious goals. there are 20 sectoral dialogues with the various ministers at ministerial level to prepare china for its wto trade obligations and also, for example, for its obligations as regards intellectual property rights and as regards labour protection, which our colleague also mentioned. the general idea is fully reciprocal two-way relations. on the china-japan tensions, we have used recent high-level meetings – notably the eu-japan summit on 2 may in luxembourg – to discuss stability issues in east asia at the highest governmental level. in that context, we have agreed to intensify our political dialogue and we have said that energy issues in particular should be very high on our agenda, together with japan. we want to do this, not least with a view to responding to japan’s concern over a possible future lifting of the eu’s arms embargo on china. as a first follow-up, we held a ministerial troika with japan on 6 may in the margin of the asem meeting. in our political dialogue with china, we are also addressing the issue of sino-japanese tensions and calling for moderation and reconciliation. on the arms embargo, the european council conclusions of december 2005 clearly stipulate that there should not be any change in the quantity or quality of arms exports to china. therefore, any possible future decision on lifting the embargo should not alter the security situation in east asia. moreover, the european union has started a strategic dialogue with the united states on east asia to address the security concerns of our partners, and information missions have been carried out to the us, japan, south korea, australia and new zealand to explain our position. we are finalising the reinforced code of conduct on arms experts. let me say two more things before the debate and then i will answer your questions. regarding china’s anti-secession law, in its statement issued on 15 march, the european union clearly expressed its concern about this legislation. on that occasion, the european union reiterated the principles guiding its policy, i.e. its attachment to a ‘one china’ policy and to the peaceful resolution of disputes. we have also called on both sides to develop initiatives for dialogue and understanding. it must be said that we were happy to see that taiwan opposition leaders went to mainland china. we hope that in the future all parties will be involved in such contacts. i refer again to the dprk’s nuclear programme. i would remind you that the european union – and the commission also – is a board member of kedo. we have financially and otherwise supported this – currently suspended – activity with a view to finding a peaceful resolution of the nuclear issue. we continue to give our full support to possible six-party talks as a way forward and have impressed our view very clearly on the north korean government on various occasions. i hear that a parliamentary delegation is going to north korea. we will be very happy to listen to you and to learn from you when you come back. i will stop here. there is a lot to be said, because these issues, as i have said, are at the centre of our global policy for the 21st century.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in fact, we should now have twice as much time to be able to give a proper reply to the excellent speeches by the previous speakers on the subject. so i can only go as far as the keyword. i think we can agree that the tensions between the different states in the far east must be taken seriously, whether it is the tension between japan and china, whether it is the tension between north korea and japan. you can trace this back to russia, for example, in the question of the four islands that have been occupied since the second world war. it is very important that we as europe make a sensible contribution, not only for economic reasons, madam commissioner, but also for political reasons. we all agree - and i think the council representative will agree - that we want to promote democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and that we see it as a long-term basis for sound economic relations, that we work on an equal footing. commissioner, you have rightly referred to the successful japan/eu summit in luxembourg in may. but sometimes i get the feeling that council and commission representatives are in beijing three times as often as they are in tokyo. a visit to taipei would also be a good idea. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. we have not yet seen either in the people's republic of china, and it is only very distantly foreseeable. a greater balance of visits and contacts would be needed to demonstrate that democracies need to work together. i would like to know from the council what the situation is now with regard to the further considerations on the lifting of the arms embargo. we have three very clear conditions as a parliament: first, we need to make substantial progress on the human rights situation in china. secondly, we must put an end to the tensions between taiwan and china. we are not going to be able to supply arms to a region of tension where china is threatening taiwan with over 700 missiles stationed on its coast! commissioner, you've been a little bit of a cheat. should the gun code be legally binding? if so, when? for this is also a prerequisite for us to be able to talk about lifting the arms embargo. we must do everything possible to ensure that the countries of asia achieve what we have achieved in europe, namely to achieve reconciliation 60 years after the end of the second world war. we should therefore encourage them to push through the same process of reconciliation, because without reconciliation there is no stability and no security.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, it is only right that we have had this important debate. i have appreciated the lively and thoughtful discussion we have had in the limited time available to us today. indeed we have heard the moving personal testimony of the commissioner and seen her personal commitment both to this issue and to this agenda. as we have heard, there is almost universal agreement on the need to tackle the terrible problems caused by anti-personnel mines. there is equally a recognition that people of our constituencies all across this continent expect nothing less of us. let me respond to some of the main points that have been raised in the course of our debate. i begin by paying tribute to the long-standing work on this issue by mr van orden. he spoke with real knowledge and a sense of urgency, given the scale of the challenge we face. i join him in congratulating the commission for its work and paying tribute to the work that it has undertaken on this issue and recognise, as he made clear, the particular challenge faced by africa in relation to the clearance of mines. all of us, with a sincere regard for the condition of that continent, recognise what a significant contribution the removal of mines can make to the achievement of the millennium development goals there. mrs gomes spoke in particular of the risks mines pose to children, while recognising the significant step forward represented by the convention. i agree with the initial point she made, that europe has a leading role to play in this regard. indeed the european union has been at the very forefront of the fight against anti-personnel landmines. i can assure her that we will continue to be so. under the 2005-2007 strategy, we are aiming for the ambitious goal of a zero-victim target, where no one will be injured or killed by landmines. this strategy represents a common goal that all 25 member states share. mr kacin spoke of the contemporary threat posed by landmines with reference to the recent incident in afghanistan. on the issue of universalising the convention, as part of the action plan agreed by the first review conference of the ottawa convention last december, the european union is committed to promoting the universalisation of the treaty and the international community is making progress: 152 countries have now signed the convention and 144 have ratified it, so the ottawa treaty is now very much the international norm, although that does not mean that we should ease up on our efforts to universalise it. mrs lucas paid rightful tribute, i felt, to the important work of non-state actors in relation to the ongoing work both of universalising the treaty and of continuing to make the case for further action to be taken. we have had the opportunity and indeed i believe that we now have the responsibility to make a real difference to the lives of millions of people around the world by taking action in relation to mines. this is an opportunity to help free them from the shadow of fear that anti-personnel landmines cast over their daily lives week-in and week-out and we have a responsibility to meet that challenge head on and deliver real results that will help deliver prosperity and security for future generations, not just on this continent but on all the continents of the world. i am grateful for the contributions that i have heard to the debate this afternoon. i have been heartened by the commitment of the commission. i can assure you that the uk presidency will continue to take action on this important subject. (applause)
the next item is question time (b6-0247/2005). we are dealing with a number of requests to the council.
question no 1 by mr papadimoulis (h-0447/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: marble frieze of the parthenon new data have been published in the british press on the improper way in which the british museum is managing the protection and conservation of the frieze, which once again refutes the argument of the british side that the frieze could be better protected in the british museum. what initiatives does the council intend to take to implement the european parliament resolution (3 november 1998) on the promotion of our common cultural heritage? does the council intend to offer its good offices to put pressure on the united kingdom to comply with the demand for the return of the frisian flag? does he think that an agreement on the return of the frisian would help to improve the image of the uk as the host of the 2012 olympic games?
president-in-office of the council. the point made by the honourable member is an important one in terms of work that can be done collaboratively. i can assure him that, if one looks, for example, at some of the treasures from the art world that have been brought to the united kingdom and taken to other european countries in recent years, it reflects that fact that there is much sharing of cultural heritage across european boundaries. that does not, however, diminish the points that i made. in this case, the matter is more appropriately dealt with bilaterally between the respective national authorities. i would also reiterate the point that the british museum trustees are the appropriate body with whom these discussions should be taken forward, rather than it being a matter for national governments in the first instance.
question no 2 by mr sajjad karim (h-0449/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: torture in the name of others in light of the absolute prohibition of torture and other ill-treatment, states have defended their practice of transferring alleged terror suspects to other countries, emphasising that they seek diplomatic assurances that the detainees would not be tortured. however, there is increasing evidence that certain states - both within the eu and in third countries - have detained and transferred terrorism suspects from one state to another, which is widely known to use torture as an interrogation technique. victims claim that they were tortured and the states that arranged the transfer even sent lists of questions to be answered during the interrogation to the receiving authorities. in view of these practices, there is no doubt that relying on diplomatic assurances is an attempt to bend the law. this practice must be exposed and stopped. what will the council do, given that the prohibition of torture and other ill-treatment is a universally binding obligation, to prevent these violations and to remedy them if they have occurred?
president-in-office of the council. madam president, in light of your direction, i shall keep this answer brief. i note the offer made by the honourable member to pass on the evidence apparently in his possession to the committee against torture, which has been set up by cat to monitor the implementation of the convention. i would simply reiterate that the council is and will remain actively committed to the prevention and eradication of torture and other cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment, in line also with the eu guidelines on this subject.
question no 3 by sarah ludford (h-0452/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: implementation of the third pillar of the fight against terrorismthe european council declaration on the fight against terrorism of 25 march 2004 obliges the member states to implement four framework decisions and two decisions which are crucial for the fight against terrorism by june 2004. in this declaration, the council also called for the implementation of another framework decision and the ratification of the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters, the protocol thereto and the three protocols to the europol convention by december 2004. can the council confirm that all member states have fulfilled their commitments after one year? if not, what steps does the council intend to take to ensure that these measures are fully implemented? what conclusions does the council draw from the fact that there is a gap between theory and practice in the areas of security and threats from criminal acts?
president-in-office of the council. the state of play of the implementation of the legislative instruments relevant in the fight against terrorism is set out in document 8211/05 add. 2 rev. 1, which will be distributed to the european parliament. the tables indicate that, although not all instruments have been fully implemented, considerable progress has been made since last year. the council plans to update the tables contained in the aforementioned document regularly and, on that basis, to discuss with all member states the state of play with regard to implementation.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, i note the tenor of the question. the specific matter raised is an issue that i will certainly look into in the course of the presidency. i would say, however, on the general question of why the european union has not made further progress on counter-terrorism legislation, that substantial preparatory work on counter-terrorism legislation has been carried out under previous presidencies. we anticipate that we will be able to agree a framework decision on exchange of information and the european evidence warrant under our presidency. the framework decision on data retention has been held up by concerns about its legal base and by the lack of a common understanding between member states.
question no 4 by mr jonas sjöstedt (h-0454/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: judgment against eğitim sen in turkeythe supreme court of turkey has ordered the dissolution of the eğitim sen teachers' association on 25 may 2005. it thus loses the right to represent its approximately 200 000 members vis-à-vis the authorities and employers. the background to this ruling is that eğitim sen, in its statutes and action plan, defends the right of all children to be taught in their mother tongue and the right of all to develop in accordance with their cultural background. the supreme court considers that this is a violation of the constitution of turkey, which states that all teaching should be conducted in turkish. the commission has previously confirmed that turkey continues to have significant restrictions on the right to organise, the right to negotiate collective agreements and the right to strike, and that turkey does not comply with ilo standards. what consequences does the council consider the decision of the supreme court of turkey will have for the country's efforts to become a member of the eu?
president-in-office of the council. i am happy to concur with the opinions of my fellow countrymen. i would certainly say on a serious basis that real and significant progress has been made. there is clearly further work to be undertaken, but it would be unfortunate if those who have wider objections to this issue did not recognise that this is a single decision within a process that is heading in the right direction, although there is a significant amount of progress still to be made.
president-in-office of the council. we are clearly concerned that on 25 may the supreme court ruled that the egitim sen should be closed down on the grounds that its by-laws contradicted the constitution by advocating mother-tongue education. the decision is especially disappointing after the case had twice been dismissed by the turkish labour court, which had noted that mother-tongue education is permitted under european law. again i would reiterate the general point in relation to freedom of expression that free speech is beginning to take hold and beginning to flourish in turkey. recent reforms include allowing broadcasting and teaching in kurdish and constitutional amendments strengthening the freedom of the press and recognising the supremacy of turkey’s international human rights obligations. there is mounting evidence that the judiciary is now increasingly relying on the european court of human rights’ rulings as a basis for its judgments. that is surely to be welcomed by all members of this parliament.
question no 5 by chris davies (h-0458/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: cypruswhen will the council implement the agreement on the opening of direct trade with northern cyprus?
president-in-office of the council. the council has expressed its view on this matter on a number of occasions. in any event, it may be recalled that the council has been steadfast in its support for the pursuit of efforts to achieve the reunification of cyprus and in its desire to see all cypriots living together as citizens of a reunited island within the european union in the near future. it is against this background, and with this in mind, that the european union has been examining measures capable of putting an end to the isolation of the turkish cypriot community and facilitating the reunification of cyprus. more specifically, as regards the commission’s proposals relating to part of the instrument of financial support for encouraging the economic development of the turkish cypriot community and the exchanges with zones where the republic of cyprus exercises no effective control, council bodies have already carried out important work. the fact that certain difficulties – particularly as regards direct exchanges – remain to be overcome, means that these two proposals still cannot be adopted. however, the council can use the presidency’s good offices to assure the honourable member that it will continue working to encourage the island’s economic integration and to improve contacts between the two cypriot communities and within the european union.
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful to the honourable member for his question. in relation to whether i am enjoying the experience, i think it is still too early to say. on the substantive point of the need for direct trade with northern cyprus and the query that was directed to me in relation to the views expressed by others, the council’s position remains that which has been previously stated. we continue to believe that direct trade will help to narrow the gap in economic development between the north and the south of the island, promoting economic cooperation and business ventures between the two communities. assisting the economic integration of the island would also boost significantly the prospects for reunification, since it would make a settlement easier and, frankly, less costly to accommodate. in relation to the specific actions that will be taken under the united kingdom’s presidency, the government wishes to see these regulations agreed as soon as possible, in order to fulfil the council mandate to end the isolation of the turkish cypriots. so, in consultation with the commission and other member states, we will carry forward work on the dossiers left by the luxembourg presidency.
question no 6 by mr simon coveney (h-0460/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: burma - human rights and shan civilians in view of the significant increase in attacks by the burmese army on shan civilians and the serious human rights violations in shan state (burma), what concrete steps does the council intend to take to put pressure on the burmese authorities to end their brutal actions in shan province? what is being done to encourage the thai authorities to meet their responsibilities and provide the necessary protection and humanitarian aid to the refugees who cross the border into thailand every day?
president-in-office of the council. the council has expressed its concerns regarding human rights in burma at several meetings with burmese leaders, most recently on 6 may, at a ministerial meeting with burma held in the margins of the asean ministerial conference in kyoto. at the eu-asean ministerial meeting held in jakarta in march, the presidency met with a senior burmese official to inform him of the european union’s concerns and to encourage his authorities to attempt to initiate a dialogue with all the country’s political and ethnic groups in order to facilitate reconciliation and democracy in burma. on 17 june 2005, on the occasion of the 60th birthday of aung sang suu kyi, the presidency made a declaration on behalf of the european union in which it reiterated its concern at the current situation in burma and the renewed tensions involving the nationalities, especially the shan state and the karen. in that declaration it was pointed out that the european union is committed to supporting national reconciliation and respect for human rights and democracy in burma and a request was made to the state peace and development council to enter into a genuine dialogue with the nld and with ethnic representatives to find peaceful political solutions that take into account their legitimate concerns.
president-in-office of the council. i am speaking to parliament today as a representative of the presidency, but i can assure you, not least from my previous work as a foreign office minister in the united kingdom government, that i am fully aware of the efforts that have been made by the british government, and by europe more generally, to try and bring about the resolution that all of us would seek in the face of the present human rights abuses in burma. our commitment in burma is to promote human rights, democratisation and sustainable development as far as we can, using all the tools available to us. the european union remains, i am delighted to say, at the forefront of international efforts to press for improvements in human rights in burma. opposition groups, including the national league for democracy, acknowledge and welcome the continued political and practical support of the european union. human rights violations have been highlighted in successive highly critical resolutions on burma in the united nations general assembly and in the united nations commission on human rights. the burmese authorities can be in no doubt about our views. the eu troika expressed our deep concern over the situation in burma directly to the burmese foreign minister in kyoto on 6 may. we continue to believe that it is essential for the regime to enter into a genuine and inclusive dialogue with aung san suu kyi and the national league for democracy, and with ethnic representatives. only such a dialogue can promote a peaceful democratic future for all burma’s people. i would, however, add this additional remark. while i am proud of the work that the european union and european member states have taken forward on this issue, i think it should be recognised that it is also important for other asian neighbours of burma to continue to take action and step up their efforts on the human rights abuses. the failure in previous resolutions before the united nations to secure the active support of other asian partners to the kind of initiatives necessary to bring this degree of pressure to bear on the burmese regime was a matter of disappointment to us. so i can assure you that from the presidency’s point of view we will maintain the pressure at european level, but we are cognisant of the responsibility of others outwith europe as well to continue to make the case for change to the burmese authorities.
question no 7 by mr claude moraes (h-0465/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: protection of minorities in the eu does the council intend to make statements on the protection of minorities in the eu and the future of the eu agency for fundamental rights or to include these issues in its work programme?
president-in-office of the council. i am certainly alive to the concerns that the honourable member has raised. indeed, it was the subject of lengthy discussions this morning with the council of europe, which has expressed similar concerns in terms of how we avoid duplication. sometimes, the language that is used in terms of synergies and complementarity should not mask the important question that he has asked in terms of the importance of being rigorous as regards the role of the fra. i believe t is necessary for the presidency to be clear that steps will be taken to ensure that the fra avoids duplication, as his question suggested. the presidency has worked closely with the council of europe, which supports the establishment of the fra. we believe that the fra management board could include a representative of the council of europe and an observer from the proposed european gender institute in order exactly to avoid the kind of duplication raised by the question. this is a matter on which we will need to have continuing watchful eyes. in that sense, i am grateful to him for raising this question. it is not a matter that will be finally be resolved today, but it merits continued and detailed reflection in the weeks and months ahead.
question no 8 by mr evans (h-0467/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: banking chargesis the council aware that some banks in the eu charge exorbitant fees for money transfers? for example, a citizen from my constituency was recently charged about eur 1 000 for a transfer from a bank in spain to an account in the united kingdom. is the council prepared to consider regulating the fees that european bank customers may be charged for transfers within the internal market?
president-in-office of the council. it is fair to say that, due to the nature of the international capital markets, this is not the only instance in which, by the touch of a button on a computer keyboard, vast amounts of money can be made. indeed, we have some experience of that in the united kingdom, though – i am glad to say – that was before the term of office of this government. however, the honourable member raises an important point and, should he wish to correspond further with me, i would certainly make sure that those representations are passed on to the relevant people.
president-in-office of the council. the honourable member raises a very important matter on behalf of one of her constituents. as a scotsman, i have to say that i fear the question of world cup tickets may prove only to be of academic interest to me, but i am sure for many other members represented in this chamber it will hold greater significance than for those of us in scotland. as i have already made clear, though, in relation to the original question that was asked, it should be recalled that the commission has exclusive right of initiative in this field of community regulation and therefore i think if there are particular concerns in relation to the credit card transaction in question it would be appropriate that these matters also be raised with the commission.
since they concern the same subject, we shall now deal with questions nos 9, 10 and 11 together. question no 9 by mr paulo casaca (h-0470/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: distribution of calls for violence in lebanon via public european telecommunications facilities the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the un security council resolution on the situation in lebanon. one of the most widely used channels by this terrorist organisation to spread its message of hatred and violence is the broadcasting of its programmes through the telecommunications company hispasat, which is co-owned by at least one member state. does the council not consider that this approach is contrary to the 'television without frontiers' directive, in particular article 22 thereof, and to the conclusions of the 'education, youth and culture' council of 23 and 24 may 2005? when can the council ensure that no more terrorist calls are made to the lebanese through public european media? question no 10 by mr tannock (h-0554/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: al-manar programme and continued breaches of eu directivesalthough the content of al-manar programmes is confirmed by all audiovisual regulators to be in breach of the european 'television without frontiers' directive, al-manar continues to be broadcast in europe and from europe to other regions of the world: spanish (partly nationalised) satellite operator hispasat and french satellite operator eutelsat continue to provide al-manar with broadcasting capacity. it is amazing that hispasat, although aware of al-manar's hate speech, has not yet taken concrete measures to stop the broadcast of such hateful programs, while in france, eutelsat has been ordered by the government to stop broadcasting al-manar and has complied with these instructions. in addition, al-manar can be received directly in most european countries via arabsat, operated by saudi arabia, and nilesat, operated by egypt. these satellite operators are encouraging young people to commit suicide bombings. will the council put this question to the governments of spain, france, saudi arabia and egypt to ensure that this situation is brought to an end with the urgency it deserves? how can the eu claim to take its responsibility seriously in the fight against terrorism in all its forms when it is possible for a channel like al-manar to continue to promote terrorism unhindered by the media, despite the fact that this has been known for a long time? question no 11 by frédérique ries (h-0561/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: al manar tv stationin march 2005, the commission organised a meeting of the european broadcasting regulators association (epra), which reaffirmed that article 22 (a) of the 'television without frontiers' directive expressly prohibits any broadcast which incites hatred on grounds of race, sex, religion or nationality. it was also agreed at that meeting that such a provision should also apply to broadcasters from third countries using a frequency, satellite transmission facility or satellite link belonging to a member state. al manar calls for hatred, violence and suicide attacks, distributes anti-semitic material and does not respect fundamental rights. al manar is broadcast using the satellite services and capacity of hispasat (partly owned by the spanish government) and globecast, a subsidiary of france telecom. from its office in beirut, al manar also transmits its signals to arabsat (www.arabsat.com) and nilesat (www.nilesat.com.eg), whose broadcasts can be received in most parts of europe. what is the council doing to stop this form of terrorist propaganda reaching europe and other parts of the world? have the authorities of saudi arabia and egypt been alerted and asked to take action and play a responsible role in the joint fight against terrorism?
president-in-office of the council. the honourable member attaches great importance to diplomatic discussion of these issues. this is clearly an issue not solely of broadcasting, but also of getting to the root of those organisations or individuals who seek to perpetuate hatred and misunderstanding, when we stand for greater understanding and reconciliation of great faiths and of great peoples. so i take on board the importance of diplomatic representations being made. in relation to his second point, i think this is factually accurate in the sense that bertie vogts has already left the coaching role for the scottish football team, but then i thought it might be not very communautaire of me to point that out, given that we have reappointed a scotsman to that role, apparently to no great effect so far!
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. question no 13 by mr james hugh allister (h-0473/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: external action servicehow are the proposals for an external action service affected by the failure of the ratification process of the proposed eu constitution? what steps does the council propose, in view of the failure of the constitution and thus the envisaged basis for action, to revise the preparatory steps which are likely to have already been taken for the establishment of the external action service?
president-in-office of the council. i will not intrude in the private discussion between the honourable members as to who is a federalist and who is not. let me simply say that i am on record in the united kingdom as saying that one of the obvious areas where there is scope for progress in relation to greater transparency within the european union is the european council in its ability to meet, when in legislative mode, in public. that seems to me to be common sense. however, we also need to reflect the fact that the decision reached at the brussels european council two weeks ago was for a period of reflection. it is necessary, therefore, to reflect that in the priorities that we will be developing in the course of the coming year. there will be plenty of opportunities, both for members of this parliament and, indeed, for european leaders, the european peoples and the public within europe, to take part in those discussions during the period of reflection. therefore, the first priority must be to hold discussions relating to the period of reflection rather than to move immediately towards changes – whether great or small – in relation to the actions of the european council or, indeed, some of the issues anticipated in the constitutional treaty.
question no 14 by mr willy meyer pleite (h-0478/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: compliance with international obligations in connection with terrorist attacks luis posada carriles, a venezuelan national of cuban descent, is the subject of an extradition request by the government of his country for his involvement in a terrorist attack carried out in barbados on 6 october 1976 in the airspace of barbados against a cuban airline 'cubana de aviación' aircraft which was taking off from caracas to havana, and in which 73 people were killed. he is currently in custody in the united states, and venezuela - the country where the attack took place - has requested the united states to extradite him because of his alleged involvement. at its extraordinary meeting on 21 september 2001, the european council stated that terrorism is a real challenge for the world and for europe and that the fight against terrorism will be one of the union's priority objectives, in compliance with international law and international agreements. one of these agreements is the convention for the suppression of unlawful acts against the safety of civil aviation, signed in montreal on 23 september 1971, on the basis of which, in addition to the bilateral extradition agreement with the united states, the venezuelan state is requesting the extradition of its national from the united states judiciary. how does the council assess the fact that the united states has not yet extradited the suspected terrorist luis posada carriles?
president-in-office of the council. with the greatest of respect to the questioner, it would be injudicious to be drawn into general discussions of this case given its status as sub judice at present. i have noted what the questioner said, but in light of the fact that the matter remains sub judice, what i have said fully states the council’s position.
question no 15 by bill newton dunn (h-0482/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: joint investigation teams in response to my question (h-0377/05) oral answer of 8.6.2005 during the last question-and-answer period, the council was unable to answer my supplementary question but publicly promised to send me a written reply. how long do i have to wait for that answer to arrive?
president-in-office of the council. following the reply given by the council representative to question h-0377/05 during council question time at the last european parliament plenary session in strasbourg on 8 june 2005, the honourable member asked a supplementary question concerning the state of play as regards the transposition of council framework decision no 2002/465/jha of 13 june 2002 on joint investigation teams. in reply to question h-0377/05, the council representative stated that 21 member states had notified the general secretariat of the council that they had transposed the framework decision, but in two member states the draft legislation transposing this decision had been, or would soon be, put before parliament and that one member state had announced that it had transposed the decision in part. the supplementary question put by the honourable member was aimed at finding out what the situation was in the 25th member state. on the basis of the information obtained, the council can inform you that the 25th member state – namely italy – has informed the general secretariat of the council that the provisions implementing the council framework decision of 13 june 2002 on joint investigation teams and the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters of 29 may 2000, are contained in draft law c2372, tabled by the government on 20 february 2002 and currently undergoing scrutiny in joint committees 2 – justice – and 3 – foreign affairs – of italy’s chamber of deputies. no estimate can be given for the moment of how long the italian parliament will take to approve this bill.
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful for your words of congratulation to the presidency for the fullness of our benches, but i fear i have already learned at my initial appearance at this parliament that what you lack in quantity you more than make up for in quality in relation to the questions that you asked. in relation to the specific point that was made by the honourable member in relation to correspondence from the presidency, it is a matter that i will look into, but i will look into it in light of the fact that we have endeavoured in the course of the reply i have given to offer as comprehensive an answer as possible to the question posed by the honourable member.
question no 16 by mr david martin (h-0484/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: outcomes of the g8 summit for the eu institutionsin what form does the council intend to discuss the outcome of this week's g8 summit in scotland and any future action required by the eu institutions?
president-in-office of the council. it is a benign coincidence that the united kingdom holds both the presidency of the european union in the second half of this year and the chairmanship of the g8. i believe it allows an opportunity for effective synergies to develop between the work of the european union and indeed of the g8. the evidence i would cite in support of that contention is already clear. if one considers the truly historic decision taken by european union development ministers within the last month to effectively double the level of aid provided by european union member states by 2010, from approximately usd 40 billion to usd 80 billion, it is clear that it has already established a very important benchmark for the g8, as it gathers in scotland this week. the european union deserves fulsome tribute and credit for its long-standing interest in issues of development related to africa. if i might be so bold, with the permission of parliament, i think the united kingdom also deserves credit in this instance for having decided to put the issue of africa at the top of the international agenda of this week’s g8 meeting. i would say, however, that the conclusion of this discussion will not be at the conclusion of the g8 summit this week. in the course of our european union presidency over the next six months, there will, of course, be this week’s g8 summit in gleneagles. there will then be the millennium review summit in new york in september, followed by the next critical ministerial meeting of the doha development round in hong kong in december. each of those represents a vital staging post on the onward march of progress towards helping many of the world’s poorest countries and the peoples of africa. if you need any further illustration of the critical contribution that european union institutions can make to that progress, one need look no further than the decisions that will be reached in hong kong in december, where i personally hope the european union’s trade commissioner will be able to advance an agenda that is pro-growth in europe and pro-poor in the world.
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful to the honourable member for his warm words of support for the leadership that britain has offered both in the g8 and in the european councils on this important matter. we are definitely in agreement that the peoples of europe care passionately about the issue of development. i attended the rally that took place in edinburgh, in my country of scotland, at the weekend. if, like me, you had been able to see in excess of 200 000 people gathered in that city, you would have been in no doubt whatsoever about the extent to which both the european union and the government of the united kingdom are acting with the full support of people from right across europe in pursuit of the achievement of the millennium development goals. however, it must be recognised, notwithstanding the level of public support for the action we have taken and, i hope, the further steps that we can take this week at gleneagles, that the scale of the challenge we face is profound. if you take, for example, the millennium development goals, and in particular their aspirations for sub-saharan africa, the timescale set out by world leaders back in 2000 was 15 years for the achievement of those millennium development goals. at the present rate of progress in sub-saharan africa, some of these millennium development goals will be met not in 15 years but in 150 years. we are categorically of the view that this is too long to wait. that is why we are so proud of the work that european union institutions and european ministers of development – and, indeed, as reiterated in a decision by ecofin when it met last month – have carried out in relation to advancing the cause of development in recent months and weeks and why we are det! ermined to use the opportunities, not just of our presidency of the european union, but also the opportunities presented by the g8 this week, the millennium review summit in september and the doha talks in december, to try to continue to advance this vital and important agenda.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. question no 18 by mr bushill-matthews (h-0492/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: working time directive can the council state what it envisages as the next steps in the context of the revision of the working time directive?
president-in-office of the council. i am not convinced that this is either the forum or the occasion on which to advance the united kingdom’s position on this, given my responsibility to answer on behalf of the presidency. as with every incoming presidency, our responsibility is to seek to lead and also to find consensus, but that consensus will inevitably and appropriately involve the united kingdom, as well as the other member states of the european union.
question no 19 by gay mitchell (h-0495/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: assisted suicidethe standing committee of eu nurses (pcn) has called on eu member states to legislate on assisted suicide and on the role and responsibilities of all healthcare workers, in particular nurses, where such legislation does not already exist. the committee took the view that medical activity can be considered when a life is terminated. a report by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe on the issue of end-of-life care called for 'procedures and provisions that clearly define the responsibilities of doctors and nurses and ensure the traceability of all decisions and actions, so that effective monitoring is possible'. does the council share the concern of the pcn and will it make a statement on this matter?
president-in-office of the council. the community’s responsibilities in the field of public health are set out in article 152 of the treaty establishing the european community. in particular, article 152(5) states that community action in the field of public health shall fully respect the responsibilities of the member states for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. the council, therefore, has no competence as regards euthanasia.
president-in-office of the council. with the greatest of respect to the questioner, i would reiterate the point i made in my initial answer, that the european community does not have competence for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. the present treaty is quite clear on this point in relation to article 152(5). as such, the council has no competence as regards euthanasia and so it cannot create legislation on this issue. it cannot specify the roles and responsibilities of healthcare workers regarding euthanasia because member states have the sole competence in this area. it is therefore for member states to ensure that they have procedures and provisions in place to define the roles and responsibilities of medical and nursing staff. member states are also responsible for monitoring these procedures.
question no 20 by mr bernd posselt (h-0496/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: situation in togo how does the council presidency assess the current situation in togo and what steps does it plan to take to contribute to the stabilization of west africa?
president-in-office of the council. the european union has closely followed the evolution of the situation in togo. in a statement issued in the aftermath of the elections, the presidency expressed its grave concern regarding the situation in togo following the elections on 24 april and paid tribute to the people of togo who took part in the ballot despite difficult conditions. the presidency also condemned the wave of violence and launched an urgent appeal to all the parties to restore calm. in a declaration issued on 3 june, the european union expressed its support for the initiatives taken by the african union through its peace and security council, in particular the appointment of a special envoy to facilitate dialogue between the togolese parties and the decision to send an observer mission to monitor the political, security, social and humanitarian situation, as well as the human rights situation in the country. the european union also urged the togolese authorities to carry out an impartial, exhaustive and credible investigation into the acts of violence against the civilian population. the european union raised the issue of togo at the latest ministerial meetings with the african union and the economic community of west african states, held on 11 april and 18 may respectively. during those meetings it had the chance to discuss the complexities with regard to african mediation efforts and election monitoring. the european union declares that it is ready to support the national reconciliation process and it will continue to monitor the political situation in togo closely, particularly in relation to the 22 engagements undertaken by the togolese government during the consultations under article 96 of the cotonou agreement and reproduced in the council decision of 15 november 2004. the next legislative elections in togo figure among the election monitoring priorities established by the commission for 2005. the commission will send an exploratory mission, which should report on the advisability of sending an election monitoring mission if a number of conditions are met: first, if a government is in place; second, if a consensus exists among the main political parties to respect the results of the elections: and, third, there is real progress on the 22 commitments.
mr president of the council! i thank you very much for your detailed reply and would just like to ask the following: do you think it is conceivable that the european union will intervene directly and actively in the peace process in the near future and try to bring about a new electoral cycle, in concrete terms, in the near future?
president-in-office of the council. i reiterate the point i made in my earlier statement that the commission will send an explanatory mission, which should report on the advisability of sending an election monitoring mission if a number of conditions are met, and i set out those conditions. in the first instance, we would want to be clear as to the findings of such an exploratory mission in relation to further work that could potentially be done in that area.
question no 21 by mr panagiotis beglitis (h-0498/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: participation of cyprus and malta in the european foreign and security policy negotiations as you know, cyprus, as an eu member state, has the right to participate fully in all cfsp activities, but does not participate in cfsp initiatives concerning eu-nato strategic cooperation. this is due to relevant agreements between the two organisations. however, turkey is preventing - directly or indirectly - the participation of cyprus and malta in all eu-nato negotiations and in eu institutional negotiations, even on issues not directly related to strategic cooperation between the two organisations, by interpreting the north atlantic council decision of 13 december 2002 very broadly. the same is done at eu meetings, on the grounds that nato classified information is discussed there. does the council intend to react to this continuing situation, which is creating serious institutional and political problems and essentially offering a third country and a candidate country the opportunity to interfere in the functioning and procedures of the eu?
president-in-office of the council. obviously the basis of the question reflects the fact that two organisations, in particular the european union and nato, must both agree on the agenda of any meeting in advance. as i made clear in my original reply, it is not for me to comment today on how nato interprets and applies its own decisions in this respect. i would merely reiterate what i said in my initial answer.
question no 22 by mr protasiewicz (h-0499/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: human rights in cuba the regime of fidel castro continues to hold 61 political prisoners who have been sentenced to long prison terms for their work in the field of civil liberties and human rights. at the same time, the cuban government is preventing european parliamentarians from contacting human rights activists in cuba in a way that is totally contrary to the principles of international law. in this situation, why has the council rejected proposals to tighten the eu's political sanctions?
president-in-office of the council. i shall begin with a couple of points of history and then speak of the future. on 31 january the european union agreed to intensify its dialogue with the peaceful opposition in cuba and then on 13 june, conclusions also noted that the expulsion of eu deputies and journalists, which prevented them from attending a meeting of civil society on 20th may in havana, was unacceptable. the european union’s cohesive approach to human rights in cuba was recently shown at the united nations commission on human rights in april when member states jointly co-sponsored the resolution, drawing attention to cuba’s human rights record. i can assure the honourable member that the european union will continue to use every opportunity to call for the release of all political prisoners and will urge the cuban government to apply greater respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, political reform and further economic liberalisation in cuba.
as the time allotted for question time has been used up, questions nos 23 to 42 will be answered in writing. for unanswered questions, see the annex 'question time'. that concludes the question time. (the sitting was suspended at 7.35 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union has a duty to ensure that the schengen agreement is respected and that the schengen agreement is respected. but a few things had happened before then: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products, which are not yet available in the market. export subsidies and import levies were also abolished at that time, so that the border was really open. the final step was the control of persons, which was regulated in the schengen agreement. in switzerland, it's the other way around. all the things i've listed will remain. the only thing i want to get rid of is the personnel controls. i therefore ask whether our swiss neighbour here should not have succeeded in picking the only raisins from this very dry bread, as i have described it here, as i had the impression during these negotiations anyway. at any rate, that is the impression my constituents have on the upper rhine: they repeatedly point out that what switzerland considered important was also dealt with. but there are very difficult problems - for example, the aircraft noise at zurich airport - which have not been solved, although they are bilateral and affect both switzerland and germany. the second question, which is equally important, concerns the farmers on this frontier. the german farmers are in very great difficulty, firstly because the swiss subsidies are much higher, so that the swiss can pay higher rents, and now they are also to receive the subsidies of the european union. no human can understand that! the negotiations have not been conducted in any way that adequately reflects these interests. we have a different view on the legal basis. we believe that these joint committees are indeed institutional in nature. our legal committee has confirmed that. in these circumstances, i do not think that the european parliament can give a definitive opinion. so we'll have to continue to discuss it. i therefore believe that ratification of this treaty by the european union is not possible at the moment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as a member of parliament whose constituency is in the immediate vicinity of switzerland, i have, of course, a special interest, together with my colleague from wogau, in good and, above all, close cooperation between the european union and switzerland. however, i have the impression that the cooperation between the member states on the one hand and the european union as switzerland's negotiating partner on the other hand is not as good as the citizens in our constituency can expect. however, i believe that the bottom line of the present agreement is that - assuming that the agreement on freedom of movement is to be added directly on 25 september - it is a step forward for our citizens in our constituency, because schengen and dublin stand for closer and therefore better cooperation on control of persons and thus also serve internal security. this is not only beneficial for the swiss but also for our fellow citizens. however, cooperation between the european union and switzerland must be mutually beneficial. i therefore share the view that the schengen agreement and the free movement agreement must complement each other like two sides of a coin. it is right that the commission should remind our swiss colleagues, particularly in the light of a number of current problems in the border area, which we will also be addressing when we meet our swiss colleagues in fribourg next week at the sineea delegation meeting, that we can only see the schengen agreement in the context of the free movement agreement, and that this - as mr wogau rightly pointed out - should not be the end of a development, but rather the beginning of a development in which switzerland opts for further closer cooperation. i believe that this is in the interests of the citizens of the upper rhine and i therefore think it right to support mr kirkhope's report. i am not in a position to comment on the legal questions raised by mr kirkhope. i'm supporting him here.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i have the opportunity today to present to you my report, which was commissioned by the committee on development, a report which deals in particular with the effects of the lending practices of the european union, in this case, of course, specifically with the european investment bank. the report before us today, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, is primarily intended to make the european investment bank an important and, above all, an effective instrument of development aid. many of you have joined the make poverty history campaign today. that is of course to be welcomed. on a day like this, when the european parliament has also symbolically committed itself to taking part in the white band global action day, we must also talk about the extent to which the development aid we have to give so far actually meets the requirements that we ourselves have always put in the foreground, also to the outside world. today's poverty has a history, and part of that history is the mistakes that have been made in development finance in recent years, which have led to the fact that today, at least 2,736 million people - almost half the world's population - live on less than two dollars a day. i would like to refer again to a part of the debate this morning which i believe is directly related to this report. the african movements in particular have repeatedly criticised the patronage shown by the northern countries and have asked us above all to wage an intensive struggle against poverty, hunger and disease and to agree to a total and unconditional cancellation of the debts of the poorest countries. we should support that. they also call for more resources to be made available for development aid, and above all for it to be of a better quality than it has been in the past. the mistakes of the past certainly include - and this must also be addressed in relation to the european investment bank - a lack of coordination between the various actors in development finance. despite the barcelona agreement, the commission and member states, multilateral and national development banks still act too closely together. in fact, they can be counterproductive. this report therefore places great emphasis on the eib's commitment to coherence, transparency and, above all, coordination from the outset of its new development tasks. the commission has also been very active in the development of the community's external relations, and has been very active in the development of the community's external relations. if you look at the limited mandate of the european investment bank, particularly in terms of lending in asia and latin america, you will find that it is also phrased almost verbatim. the shareholders of the european investment bank, the member states of the european union and the commission, are currently negotiating a new mandate for the eib for lending outside the union. but i think that these negotiations are increasingly being conducted by financial experts and less and less by development experts. parliament's expertise has also been excluded. but this new mandate must contain a clear commitment to the tasks, which also relate in particular to the achievement of the millennium development goals, the fight against poverty in the target countries. but in order for parliament to be able to monitor the wording of this new mandate, i think it is necessary - and this is the request in the report - to inform the european parliament as early as september of this year about the state of play of the negotiations. we cannot then be faced with a fait accompli. the fight against poverty must no longer be measured simply by economic growth figures. these often also mask the growing poverty, especially in rural areas. the level of foreign direct investment quoted in the report is also not a good indicator of success, as it does not indicate the level of job creation or the social or environmental compatibility of the investments. for example, if the eib is now supporting swiss and canadian companies in zambia in the construction of large copper mines, which are exporting almost all their profits, but leaving their poisons in the local rivers and destroying agriculture in whole regions, then this is a tangible foreign investment, but not a measurable fight against poverty. the report before you today also contains a number of concrete proposals for improving the eib's lending in developing countries in the future. in line with the un's objectives, the millennium development goals are the framework for these proposals, and within these proposals a great many detailed proposals have been made to move forward. i would like to draw attention to one particular problem. in my view, the european investment bank is still not taking enough account of the need to apply the indicators of the millennium development goals in particular, to enable it to assess the impact of its own activities. it relies on general information. i think that is simply not enough, especially when we compare the impact of other national development banks in some member states. the tsunami in particular has shown that we urgently need to change if we are to ensure that the investment bank is able to provide reasonable loans in emergency situations, irrespective of external economic criteria, and actually help effectively. we need a clearer mandate from the member states as shareholders. i therefore ask for your support tomorrow for this report, so that cooperation between the european parliament and the european investment bank can continue to be productive and we can move forward in the development aid field.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner michel, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i too would like to thank mrs zimmer for this excellent report. two facts underline the importance of the european investment bank. with a volume of eur 40 billion, it is the world's largest public lender. it is active in over 100 countries, making it the largest development bank after the world bank. but there is a problem, because according to its statutes the european investment bank is not supposed to act like a development bank. the bank's statutes require it to conduct its interest rate policy in a market-oriented manner, i.e. not to grant particularly low interest rates in order to promote development policy objectives. on the other hand - and this is particularly welcome - it has been committed to contributing to the implementation of the millennium development goals through its lending policy. this is a contradiction, and this contradiction should be resolved by a fundamental reform of the bank. i think it is essential to consider whether it would not be sensible and appropriate to institutionalize the separation of development finance at this bank, a separation from its european activities. i believe that this is the big question that should be discussed in the future in the policy of the bank, because i believe that this existing contradiction should be resolved politically. until such a fundamental reform is achieved, however, concrete steps are also needed to improve its policies to achieve the goal of supporting the millennium development goals. i believe that the issue is that lending must be oriented towards the objectives of poverty reduction and respect for social, environmental and human rights criteria, that this must take precedence over financial and technical criteria, and that the bank's management must actually implement and enforce this. secondly, i think it is very important that the bank makes greater use of the instruments of interest rate subsidies provided for in the cotonou agreement and also in the meda agreement. it must be used more to provide low-interest loans to small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of development finance. we can then offset the difference to the high interest rates the bank is obliged to pay by its statutes by means of subsidies. thirdly, the social and environmental impacts of major infrastructure projects need to be identified and taken into account, much more than in the past. in particular, it is not to support projects which do not meet the criteria of the world commission on dams, especially large-scale dam construction projects. i believe that these three elements can be implemented now, and in the long term we will need a fundamental debate on reform.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am in favour of quality over quantity in the enlargement process. the simultaneous deepening and enlargement of the european union is of the utmost importance for the development and stability of the european continent. every additional square metre of european land that safeguards democracy, the rule of law and human rights also increases the space for peaceful conflict resolution, particularly in the balkans. but enlargement must not be rushed. each country must meet the necessary accession criteria, not just on paper but in practice, in a way that is clear to the people. i regret that despite the progress made since the elimination of the communist regimes in bulgaria and romania, there is still a poorly developed political culture. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. critical are the lack of progress in judicial reform, widespread corruption in the police and judiciary, significant shortcomings in the integration of minorities, weak economic development and social and environmental problems. the shocking electoral success of the far-right ataka party, which won 8% of the seats in the bulgarian parliament, does not improve the political climate in society as a whole. it is feared that the emerging problems in the formation of the government in bulgaria will further delay the progress of reforms. it is important to send a signal to the responsible authorities of both countries. unlike the majority of my group, i believe that we should invite the observers only after the progress report and the decision on accession to the european parliament. we should make it clear to the governments in bucharest and sofia that there is still considerable need for reform and that the sprint to the finish line for accession is not a sprint.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have initiated this debate to discuss the appropriate timing for inviting observers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the decision is highly political, which shows that such a decision must be met with some doubts. it is not very democratic to take decisions in the closed chambers of the conference of group chairmen which should be taken in the full light of this house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all want romania and bulgaria to become members of the union. there is not the slightest doubt about that. but we must take seriously the conditions we have set for accession! i would add that the french and dutch referendums were so disastrous in part because many citizens have the impression that we do not take seriously the conditions we attach to accession. that is why the enlargement process has gone completely off the rails. we cannot expand and deepen at the same time. we must now give priority to deepening. the signal to invite observers, more than a year before accession, which is not even fixed, is in any case a false one. it is quite possible - the commissioner has just indicated this himself - that, in view of the situation correctly described by mr horáček, accession will be postponed by one year. we have to be able to see the problems of the people of europe. i think that would be more than inappropriate. that is why it would have been right to wait until the progress report had been made to take a decision, and that is why we wanted to discuss it here.
the commission has already done so. life+ is to be the only funding instrument for the environment from 2007. it is not a bad idea to combine the various programmes which have supported environmental actions, such as actions under the forest focus regulation, the support of non-governmental organisations or that of local and regional authorities, into a single environmental instrument. we can assume - and this is particularly pleasing to me as a housekeeper - that efficiency and effectiveness gains can be expected from such an operation. we know that an effective energy policy is one that takes place locally, across the union, across the local area. the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality is therefore not to be criticised. but effective control of the use of funds is urgently needed if we are to achieve a clear european added value in financing environmental policy. this control includes two things: firstly, the european parliament must take part in the decision-making process on multiannual programmes. secondly, evaluation must be carried out at shorter intervals to allow for timely follow-up if necessary. the commission's proposal for life has virtually eliminated the life-nature part, and thus the funding of natura 2000 actions. we can't have that. the commission's proposal to pay for the management of natura 2000 sites from the funds is also not a bad idea, even though we first saw in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety the problems of this approach, namely competition with other objectives set by different funds. we finally agreed that we wanted to support one part of natura 2000 sites, namely natura 2000 sites, which are not covered by a fund scheme, with life+. we shall see where we end up with our clear-sighted, realistic and at the same time solidary approach. in any case, yesterday our colleagues, led by the committee on regional development, removed all reference to natura 2000 from the structural funds regulations. i now expect an initiative or offensive of persuasion not only from our committee but also from the ngos and the commission.
the commission has already done so. i also welcome the commission's proposal to simplify the financing and management of existing environmental programmes and to combine them all into a single financial instrument under life+. i too am in favour of environmental protection and the necessary financial compensation. i too would be happy if we were able to set generous financial limits for nature conservation today. however, in view of the lack of medium-term financial planning for 2007-13, i believe that it is unrealistic and illusory to make concrete financial demands today. we do not know today how many euros the total budget of the european budget will be. first, we all know that the whole house, the financial framework, must be built. then we can arrange the rooms. we have already described very well the competitive situation between the structural funds and rural development on the one hand and life+ on the other. in the current situation, we need to ask ourselves which actions make sense to support through life+ and which tasks should remain the responsibility of the member states. for example, is it not better to leave the protection of forests to the responsibility and responsibility of the member states? or: why should land acquisition be funded by life+ funds? here, the assumption is that it is environmental protection when an environmental organization buys a piece of land. the question is not who owns the land, but how it is managed, i.e. management in the sense of flora and fauna habitat (ffh) must be ensured and promoted. the resulting tasks and costs must be covered by life+. the proper management of land is the first step towards environmental protection, and it is also much cheaper in the end. i am clearly against institutional support for ngos. life+ shall not be used to finance purely administrative tasks of the organisation concerned. instead, concrete projects that benefit the environment must be financed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the commission, with our help, has managed to reach an agreement with china a few days ago. the aim of this agreement is to protect the european textile industry from a tsunami of chinese textiles. there's good and bad. the good news is that the textile industry in southern europe is getting a breathing space. but let's look at the bad side of the deal: we have again introduced quotas. we are doing exactly what we always criticize china for: we are building trade barriers. who determines when and to which importer the quotas are allocated? first come, first serve? or is preference given to those who already have longer supply contracts? or are there other options? the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. what about the department stores and retailers who placed large orders in china, hoping that the quotas would run out? are they getting their goods? are the shelves going to be empty? or does someone compensate them when they have to buy more expensive products elsewhere in the world? what about european textile companies which, in the hope of eliminating quotas, have moved their production to china and in return have further strengthened their marketing and distribution in europe? can they get supplies from their own factories in china, or are they just unlucky and have their foundations torn down and have to lay off their staff in europe because the quotas have been reintroduced? what about the textile manufacturers who have restructured themselves at their own expense in recent years? are they now being punished by the fact that those companies which have not yet taken up the challenge are receiving money from the structural funds? we are giving those companies which have not yet adapted to the new situation on the world markets a last chance to finally do so. it is not the task of a european protectionist and subsidizing policy to protect the textile industry permanently from the future. this is the very task of enterprises, managers and employees. i therefore call on them to rise to the challenge!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i cannot understand the general outcry that followed the rapid increase in textile imports from china since 1 january 2005. we all knew this was gonna happen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is open to competition. look at what china's top imports are today: aluminum smelters, foundries, presses, gravity tools, rolling mills. this is a very important point, and i hope that the commission will take it up with the council and the commission. the deadline of 2008 set by special safeguard clauses will not solve the problem, but will only mitigate it. it is a bluff to demand a level playing field for trade with china and other countries. does this mean that from 2008 onwards, a worker in the european textile industry will have to earn the same salary as his chinese colleague in order to be competitive? this is absurd! it is absurd and scandalous that the european union is draining itself of water by subsidizing companies which move their production to third countries. the only chance for a solution is a complete reorientation of eu trade policy. the eu must work for a fair trading system. this includes breaking with the policy of unbridled market opening and liberalization. a fair balance of interests involves promoting trade where it is useful and not self-serving, and on the other hand safeguarding and promoting the survival of local production and regional economic cycles, not only in one's own regions but also in developing countries. this includes - as my group has called for - the european union's commitment to improving working conditions and the social rights of workers and to high environmental standards both in its own industry and in the production of its trading partners. this includes taking due account of differences in development between the various trading partners. the commission's negotiating mandate must be re-formulated. the old mandate of 1999 has failed twice, in seattle and cancún, and it will fail in hong kong too! i do not see why the commission should, as this report says, design its new mandate itself. i support the rapporteur's call for specific support for research and innovation in the textile sector. the emphasis should be on the development of safe, chemical-free textiles by strictly enforcing the substitution principle, in line with reach. i also believe that this means ensuring that consumers are not subjected to experiments on textile products made from colourful nanotechnology without adequate research into their effects.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think mr wurtz is absolutely right. it is not that we have not concluded the debate yet, that is fine. the point is that we are not going to vote today but in the next part-session, in the september part-session. i am in favour of the motion. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had already signed up for the rules of procedure before the explanations of vote. i would like to ask you directly whether it is really legitimate to ask for a vote to be postponed before the end of the debate. i don't think he did. i think that this could have been requested after the end of the debate or voted on tonight. i'm asking you to check it by tonight. then we would have to vote on the motion for a postponement again at the final vote this evening. because in my view, that was an illegal vote in the middle of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the isler béguin report. i want to make it clear that i am in favour of environmental protection and also in favour of the much-needed financial compensation. i am also in favour of the line we have found to be the line of the financial perspective, as we have stated in the böge report. i am against institutional support for environmental associations, for non-governmental organisations, and also against the european union taking on more responsibilities. subsidiarity must also be applied to environmental protection. the member states have the primary responsibility. this applies to forestry policy, but also to the purchase of land for nature conservation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to say on behalf of the epp-ed group, with regard to the vote on bulgaria and romania, that it was our group that initiated the debate yesterday. we want to say with all the force that the enlargement of the european union so far has been a great success. we also want the enlargement to bulgaria and romania to be a great success. no group in the european parliament has voted with as many votes as our epp-ed group for the inclusion of bulgaria and romania. we want this to be a success and we want the accession treaties to be applied in all their meaning and content. there was a difference of opinion as to the observers. the conference of presidents decided on 9 june that the observers should come on 26 september. i would like to say that the idea of inviting observers - even for the ten countries that are now members - came from us at that time. we strongly support the idea of having observers from the candidate countries. but we would have welcomed it if the observers had come to the european parliament a year before accession, as they did when the ten countries joined. when we asked for the debate on monday, we would have had the opportunity to inform parliament that the president of parliament had already invited us, which we did not know. it would have been necessary to inform us of this. in this context, we have withdrawn our motion and the two amendments to the vote which we had requested. we would have welcomed it if we could have reached a common position here. the majority of our group abstained. that is why we have not agreed to the joint motion. we respect the majority that has emerged here. we are democrats. we respect that and welcome the observers and look forward to working with them.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr freitas on his balanced report. the geographical, climatic and economic conditions in the outermost regions are unfavourable compared with the rest of the european union. the eu has recognised the special situation of these areas and has also referred to them in article 299 (2) of the ec treaty. for this reason, the union must ensure that the eu's outermost regions are included in the development of the union. agriculture is an important pillar of the economies of the outermost regions. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal for a council regulation on specific measures in the field of agriculture in these areas. such measures have been the subject of programmes going back to 1991. they are now essential for the development of the eu's outermost regions. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the development of the regions concerned. the commission proposal provides for greater flexibility for the union's outermost regions in the future implementation of agricultural measures by decentralising and simplifying administrative instruments. i welcome that. the best solution to the problem, in my view, is usually to be found where the specific circumstances of the region are best known, and that is on the spot. only in this way can we increase the competitiveness of the outermost regions in the long term, so that they can catch up and move closer to the rest of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not after the rigged elections on 31 march, some might have thought that the dictator had had enough of repression for the time being. but unfortunately, that is not the case. the "take the trash" campaign, mentioned earlier, served to further intimidate the people. and by garbage this cynical dictator really means people who are now, in some cases, losing their homes for the second time, having left the expropriated farms where they no longer had a livelihood. the african union's refusal to intervene is also more than cynical. and south africa has a key role to play. i call on president mbeki, who is in gleneagles today, to: you are personally and politically responsible for what is happening in zimbabwe because for years you have failed to do what you could to end this human tragedy! you lose the right to manage the political legacy of a liberation movement when it is obvious that an old boys network accepts the misery of millions of people for the sake of power! the united nations secretary-general kofi annan has finally spoken out against this behaviour in an interview with the financial times today. i call on the council and all the member states to finally and effectively isolate the regime. you are not even prepared to deny visas to this clique. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty of rome. the council and our member states are not prepared to take even such a small diplomatic reprisal for the refusal of visas. this is another scandal, but this time it is european politics. there are certain member states which are now increasing their presence because others have reduced it. anyone who does this makes us an accessory to this regime. let's stop this and do something effective! the people of zimbabwe need us!
a writer. the commission is not this week is particularly concerned with africa, a continent which we have neglected for too long, including in part here in the european parliament. it started with the pop concerts at the weekend, it continued on wednesday with the summit in scotland and with our great debate here in the house. and today the subject of africa continues to dominate our urgent debate here on thursday afternoon. the zimbabwe issue has already made it clear that this is an issue that has a lot of political conflict. it has become clear that there is a need to develop a rigorous, well-founded african policy beyond the purely humanitarian approaches. here, i have to say, i was shocked by what i heard from the commissioner. i would like to say this as a member of the bavarian parliament: when i consider that the commissioner, in his former capacity as belgian foreign minister, was one of the main instigators when it came to imposing sanctions on the european model democracy austria, and when i hear him now saying that sanctions against one of the most disgraceful dictators in the world, mr mugabe in zimbabwe, would be counterproductive and wrong, then i have to say: it is precisely this double standard that we cannot accept at all. we must be clear: we will only be credible as europe if we do not just go around africa and hand out money like a water jug, but develop a political strategy and a very clear concept of human rights. of course, we can't just - i agree wholeheartedly - go around the world and make a fool of ourselves. we have enough to sort out in ourselves. but, commissioner, i do believe that there is an urgent need to impose sanctions and pressure on the dictators in africa. mr mbeki in south africa, who is posing as a model democrat and peacemaker for the whole continent, is in fact a disguised mugabe, otherwise he would have long ago turned against these developments in zimbabwe. and if you listen to what the church leaders in south africa are saying on this subject, it is clear enough, and we should take it up. it is in this context that ethiopia belongs. in ethiopia, the principle is "return to the beginnings". ethiopia is on the road to another catastrophe. this country has seen enough disasters: terrible famines, wars, civil wars, a communist dictatorship under soviet auspices, then again civil war and civil war, war between neighbours, and so on. and now we see that a dictatorship is developing again. this country has enormous potential. it is one of the oldest independent states on earth. a civilized people of ancient origin, predominantly christian, which, with the exception of a few years, has never suffered under colonial rule, which has fought against fascism and european militarism, which was once the pride of africa as a symbol of independent and autonomous development. we cannot allow this country to be divided into clans like neighbouring somalia, into its multitude of ethnicities and parties, most of which are also ethnically based. that is why it is important that we massively strengthen democracy and human rights in this country in particular. i do not often agree with mr kohlíček, but today i must expressly support him. we must support decentralized projects in the field of agriculture, in the field of irrigation, so that not only the central government and the bureaucracy are fed, but so that a new community can be created from below in the strategically important horn of africa.
member of the commission. ethiopia is a typical case where the european union can make a difference and is indeed making a difference. like all of you, i have been following very closely the electoral process in ethiopia. i followed him before the election and i have to say that the election campaign was a model of democracy, with access to the media for everyone. it was the elections that were the real problem. i was, of course, a witness to the serious incidents which took place on 7 and 8 june. i personally intervened. javier solana stepped in to help. as you know, i am in contact with prime minister meles almost every other day to convey the union's concerns about the conduct of the elections and in particular the human rights violations that have been committed during these incidents. clearly the messages that the european union and others have sent and continue to send to the authorities are having an effect as evidenced by the government's decision to release some 3 800 people arrested without charge following the protests. we have had numerous telephone contacts and each time mr meles has complied with our request. i had a conversation with him and president barroso three days ago in libya: there are still 600 to 700 detainees, many of whom are in hiding. prime minister meles told me that he was trying to speed up the settlement of these issues and that most of these detainees will probably be released if they are held without reason. the ethiopian authorities must respect their laws and international human rights standards. we have asked for the international committee of the red cross to be allowed to visit those who are still in prison. with regard to the events of 7 and 8 june, it would be desirable for the government to authorize an independent inquiry to fully establish the facts and the charges. prime minister meles told me that he was able to comply with this request and that he would work on it. as regards the electoral process, i welcome the progress achieved after the serious risk of a slip-up and i welcome the fact that the electoral litigation has been able to begin. i have asked all the political parties - i have met with all of them, including the opposition parties - and their leaders to exercise maximum restraint in order to allow the national electoral administration to complete its work independently. the european union also obtained - this was a request from the opposition parties - that representatives of each party, including the opposition, sit on the complaints committee. again, we were satisfied. we were also the only working party in negotiating a code of conduct for the media. this code is well on its way to being adopted by all parties. it is more than likely that this code will be adopted fairly quickly. the commission and the union are keen to help ethiopia conclude the electoral process not only for the stability of the country but also for the great signal that it is truly democratizing the country. the commission is at the forefront of initiatives and is playing a constructive role which is appreciated by all the ethiopian parties, both through the eu election observation mission and through the political dialogue conducted on the ground by the commission representative. we will continue to support the process. i would also like to thank and warmly and publicly congratulate mrs ana gomes, member of parliament, for her outstanding work as head of the european electoral observation mission and the excellent cooperation she has allowed between her and us. we have had contacts and i can see how much she has helped to bring our positions closer together. she went beyond her role as head of the observation mission, she was a truly remarkable facilitator, i would say. (applause) i would like to thank i am convinced that the european union will continue to engage in a constructive but firm and demanding dialogue in order to continue to have a positive influence on the process in ethiopia. this process is obviously fragile. in each camp, extremists are waiting for a slip or an opportunity to set fire to the gunpowder. i think that this collective responsibility - parliament, commission and council - should prevent this worst-case logic to maintain the commitment of each side within the legal framework and in the current electoral and political process. i would like to add one more thing. without taking sides, i would like to say that the influence of the european union is, to a certain extent, facilitated by the open attitude of prime minister meles and above all by his very high confidence in the european union. the european union is an institution and a reality in which he believes, which he respects, and for which he is quite ready to respond to our requests, our demands and even our demands. i am convinced that if we can continue to accompany the process, we should play a calming role and democracy could quite easily regain its rights in ethiopia. prime minister meles told us that he would accept the verdict of the ballot box when it is announced by the institution that is supposed to give the exact results. if, for example, new elections are to be held in certain constituencies, etc., he will submit to them. we'll see what happens. anyway, whenever he committed to something, he did it. it was important that i let you know. the picture i am drawing is not as dark as some speakers have drawn. naturally, it is fragile. of course, it is risky. of course, it is dangerous. who can imagine that it would not be! but since i became commissioner, this is the first time i have realised that when the different institutions - parliament, the high representative, the commission, the delegations on the ground - work together, including with the member states, using all the instruments at the disposal of the european union, they are effective. this is certainly the case with ethiopia. i feel that we have been very helpful, but i would like to thank mrs gomes again from the bottom of my heart because she has been very helpful.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the saïfi report was not put to the vote this afternoon, but this evening. it was, however, dropped this afternoon, after the voting period had ended and many had already left the chamber. i have read the rules of procedure again. article 170 (4) clearly states that a request for postponement may be made before a vote is taken. so it is only now that mr schulz could ask for the saïfi report to be postponed. why he can't do that is obvious. he's not even here. i believe that we cannot accept that the rules of procedure are applied in this way in future. the vote on this could have taken place now, but it was not scheduled for this evening because a clear majority would have voted in favour of the saïfi report, because those who are here are the ones who are working to the end. this afternoon a majority of those who are too lazy to hold the sitting to the end acted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we had the opportunity to discuss this issue at the conference of group chairmen last thursday. we in the socialist group and, i know, most of the other groups in this house believe that it is not sensible to hold this vote this week. there are a number of reasons, including the ongoing discussion in the general affairs council, particularly in relation to the open questions on cyprus, which suggest that we should discuss the whole package, i.e. approval of the association agreement and all other related issues of turkey policy, at the september ii meeting when we will also be discussing the commission's negotiating mandate for 3 october. we therefore think that mrs frassoni's request should be rejected.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, as rapporteur, i would ask you to support our request to the council to inform us, before our decision is taken and before 26 september, of the way in which this protocol will be implemented in the light of the additional declaration by turkey to this protocol.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the vote was taken. the result is clear, and we respect that, of course. but i would like to take up what mrs napoletano said. we should take up this subject at one of the next meetings - my proposal would be at the september ii meeting - because belarus remains an important subject. we have just had guests from belarus at a meeting of the executive committee of our group. the situation there is very threatening. i therefore ask the house to agree to this debate being held at the september ii part-session. this is a really heartfelt request to all of you!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank all the volunteers who have worked in a very selfless way in the various disasters we have to discuss today and have helped to reduce the damage as quickly as possible by providing rapid aid where it was needed. i can only agree with many speakers. of course, we must be prepared for disasters that seem to come at ever shorter intervals. i would like to make it very clear, mr dimas, that the programmes presented by the commission have led to precautionary measures being taken. i can say this for my home country, which has now been hit terribly by the flood disaster. we have taken a number of flood protection measures there. this has resulted in significantly less damage than in the past, despite the fact that the water volume was higher than in the last flood. this means that the aid is being used and is also being used to prepare the necessary protective equipment. it is very unfortunate, of course, that - as was the case in my constituency - the flood occurred in the middle of a construction project, so that some things that were under construction were also destroyed and the flood took a different path than it would have been planned after the completion of the project. i would like to appeal to the commission to make full use of the instrument of the solidarity fund. the appropriations for 2005 are still available. i hope that the member states concerned will be able to report their losses to brussels quickly, so that the commission can also provide funds in a timely manner to rebuild public facilities quickly - that is the big problem in my home country - and to help ensure that protective measures are taken. then we are on the right track and have drawn the right consequences. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, over the last 100 years the temperature of the planet has increased by 0.6ºc and in europe, in particular, we have had an increase of 0.9ºc. that is why several members – mr maat, mr prodi, mr turmes and others – have mentioned the connection between climate change and the recent phenomena and catastrophes. over the last few months, the tragic catalogue of natural disasters has tested the european union's civil protection response to the limit. using the commission's civil protection mechanism, the european union has dispatched field hospitals, search and rescue teams and forensic experts to help to deal with the aftermath of the asian tsunami. pumps and medical supplies were sent to the flood-affected areas of romania and bulgaria. water bomber aircraft and specialist helicopters were sent to deal with portugal's forest fires. today, the first consignments of european union assistance arrived in the united states, following the destruction caused by hurricane katrina. over this period, it has been demonstrated that the european union system works, and works well. by pooling the civil protection resources of member states, we were able to provide a common response that is more effective than any member state can provide on its own. a well-coordinated response is always more effective. in the natural desire to show solidarity with the victims of natural disasters, many nations spontaneously offer support, but without clear coordination there is a risk that assistance will be duplicated or that what is sent will not meet the real needs of the affected region. the commission's monitoring and information centre provides a real-time service matching resources with requirements. in romania and bulgaria the crisis had passed by 24 august, when we received the message that no further international assistance was needed. nevertheless, the situation could deteriorate quickly, and the commission is continuing to monitor the overall flood situation in central and eastern europe. romania was immediately offered assistance by austria, belgium, the czech republic, germany, spain, finland, france, greece, hungary, luxembourg, malta, italy, portugal, sweden, slovenia, slovakia and the united kingdom – almost all the member states. the assistance took the form of intervention teams, highly specialised material and financial support. assistance in the form of highly-specialised material was immediately offered to bulgaria by austria, belgium, the czech republic, germany, greece, malta, sweden and slovakia. portugal was offered assistance by france, two water bomber aircraft by italy, one water bomber aircraft by germany, as well as three puma helicopters and four other helicopters, and spain offered one water bomber aircraft in addition to bilateral assistance. the netherlands offered two helicopters, slovakia one. norway also offered assistance, but those offers were not needed, so were not taken up. today, in portugal, there are only five fires. the dutch helicopters will return tomorrow to the netherlands and the german helicopters are still operating today but will be going home tomorrow. i should like to refer to what mrs grossetête said about arson. in portugal, 98% of the fires were caused by humans. twenty percent were caused by arson and the rest by negligence. many people have been arrested. in the united states, the european union's mobilisation is only just beginning. following yesterday's request from the united states government, the first european union assistance arrived within 24 hours from italy and germany. it is important to note that, even though the rules of our civil protection mechanism prevent it from being activated until a formal request is received, commission experts had contacted their us counterparts last week to explore areas where the european union could provide the most help. we received the request yesterday morning. it is too early to have a final picture, but it is clear that thousands of lives may have been lost. according to the united nations, the cost of the damage is likely to be several times that of last december's tsunami. even though the request for help was only received yesterday, a large number of states have already offered assistance, including medical teams, water purification equipment and heavy-duty pumps. i am aware that other member states are in the process of preparing additional offers. some of the assistance is already on site, whereas the rest is still being considered by the united states or is in the process of being dispatched. the civil protection mechanism response to this year's natural disasters has provided a clear example of european union added value. it is important that all member states channel their assistance to the united states through that mechanism in order to avoid overlapping. we will use the united kingdom presidency as the contact point. that has worked very well up until now. mr pinheiro and others raised the question of whether the mechanism could work more efficiently. the mechanism has worked excellently up until now and help from the member states has been coordinated immediately. of course, there is still room for improvement. that is why, in april this year, the commission made proposals which would effectively create a european civil protection force, more or less along the lines suggested by mr prodi and others. having heard the comments today, i am confident that parliament will support these proposals. finally, on behalf of the whole college of commissioners, i would like to express solidarity with the continued suffering of the victims of hurricane katrina. we are standing by to provide any assistance that might be needed.
member of the commission. mr president, i should first like to thank the european parliament and the committee on the environment, and in particular mrs sjöstedt's rapporteur, for the painstaking preparation of this second reading report. with the consequences of the major mining waste accidents in asnallcoger, spain, in 1998 and in baia mare, romania, in 2000, still fresh, the commission's proposal for a directive aimed at establishing rules at european union level to minimise the impact on the environment and human health of the storage of waste in waste tanks or piles, both under normal operating conditions and in the event of an accident. in conjunction with the revised seveso 2 directive on the control of major industrial accidents and a document on best available techniques, the proposed directive will ensure the proper management of waste from the mining industry throughout the european union. at first reading, the commission accepted in full, in part or in principle 46 of parliament's 74 amendments, since they clarified and improved the text while remaining consistent with the structure and approach of the commission's original proposal. the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the common position, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the proposal was discussed in the council during the irish and dutch presidencies and it soon became apparent that the large majority of member states considered the scope of the commission proposal to be overly ambitious and entailed costs which they considered disproportionate to the risks involved. the commission considers that many of the changes adopted in the common position are improvements to its original proposal. in particular, the provisions on inert waste have been extended, permitting procedures have been specified, references to community standards, in particular those established by the water framework directive, have been increased, requirements for the long-term stability of waste facilities have been strengthened, stricter limit values for cyanide compounds have been set and inventories of closed abandoned sites are now required. at the same time, the council, concerned with the principle of proportionality, gave the member states the possibility of exempting non-hazardous, non-inert waste from certain provisions of the directive, in particular from the obligation to provide a financial guarantee. the commission would prefer the wording of its original proposal which did not allow for such exceptions. however, the commission decided to support the common position, taking into account: firstly, that no general derogation from the basic provisions of the directive is allowed but that the competent authorities in the member states decide on a case-by-case basis and, secondly, that no derogation is allowed from the main environmental safeguard clauses of the directive concerning the safe design, operation, decommissioning and maintenance of waste facilities. i would like to point out, however, that the commission is willing to look positively at any other possibility of compromise that might arise. i hope that we can complete the procedure for this proposal as soon as possible. we need the new directive to ensure that mine waste is managed in an environmentally sound manner both in the day-to-day operation of waste facilities and in the event of a major accident.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. the common position we have before us takes account of many of the amendments adopted by the european parliament at first reading. the definition of waste is more clear. the financial guarantees and the list of decommissioned installations are now more precise and better presented and regulated. i also fully support what jonas sjöstedt has just said in his speech. the commission has already made a number of proposals. but there is one crucial point on which we as the epp-ed group disagree, and that is the different weighting of waste. we must take account of the different hazard potential of mining waste. the common position provides for this. it is therefore right that member states should be able to differentiate between hazardous and non-hazardous waste and to reduce or suspend the requirements for non-hazardous non-inert waste, provided that it does not fall under category a, i.e. the very well defined hazardous waste. the range of mining waste ranges from harmless substances such as quicksand, salt and mother earth to toxic cyanide from ore mining. you can't just put everything in one place. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner which would be contrary to the interests of the community. commissioner, you also said that: a quarry, a sand or gravel pit must not be equated with a hazardous waste landfill. this is just to meet the demand for building materials. i would ask you to accept the amendment to article 3. the aim is to include the incineration of lime in the scope of this directive. the waste generated by the combustion of lime, such as lime dust, is marketed and used; they are not dangerous and should not be covered by the landfill directive. this avoids unnecessary landfill costs. in all our activities we must keep in mind our objective, which is the safety of people and the environment with the least possible bureaucracy and effort. that is what we are trying to do.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to use my three minutes to say something fundamental. i shall not go into the great number of details which many of our colleagues cannot grasp, but which we, who are engaged in the debate, of course understand, because other colleagues will certainly be dealing with these details. the directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries is a piece of legislation which is not of particular interest to large sections of the european public - at least in my own country. but that does not prevent those concerned from lobbying us effectively. this applies both to trade unions and industry and their associations on the one hand and to the various environmental and consumer associations on the other. the fact that they all do not always want the same thing, but sometimes the exact opposite, did not make our decision-making any easier. however, i believe that the environment committee is presenting a balanced piece of legislation to the plenary for adoption, especially as this directive is a supplementary directive. the waste framework directive and the landfill directive largely exclude the extractive industries because the types of waste produced by these industries do not quite comply with the rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that is harmful to the environment. but there must be legal certainty! not only for people and the environment, but also for trading companies, for companies that extract mineral resources, such as oil, coal, metal, clay, gravel or sand. the socialists in the european parliament always have two things in mind: firstly, the protection of people and the environment, the sustainability of our economy, and secondly, the right framework and the appropriate conditions that our companies need to be able to operate, to create jobs for the people we want to save from harm. these two principles are fully taken into account in the present proposal for a decision. our reporter is a man of his word - thank you, dear jonas!
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for the very constructive remarks they have made and i would like to give some answers on the bauxite waste - a subject mentioned earlier - for the production of alumina: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the directive. as regards the last remark by mr nicholson, which is different from what was said by previous speakers, the commission and the council in their common position accepted the inventory pension for old abandoned waste facilities. however, it is better to leave the recovery to the member states, taking as a given that the water framework directive is still in force. furthermore, as regards the possibilities for exemptions for non-inert waste, these do not concern the main environmental requirements which are still in force. we need the new directive to ensure that mine waste is managed in an environmentally sound manner both in the day-to-day operation of waste facilities and in the event of a major accident. and i hope that we will complete the process on this proposal as soon as possible so that we can ensure the best protection of human health and the environment, as mr davies said, in a way that is real and meets the requirements of the various stakeholders. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the amendments concerning the scope of the directive are particularly important. amendments nos 2 and 13 concern the deletion of permitted exemptions for non-hazardous non-inert waste. the commission cannot accept the reasons i set out in my original intervention. for the same reasons, the commission is not in a position to accept amendment no 11, which increases the scope of the provisions applicable to inert waste, nor amendment no 15, which deletes the various periods of time allowed before a waste site is classified as a 'waste facility'. the text of the common position already reflects the amendments made at first reading and ensures the necessary proportionality. amendment no 47 suggesting that the criteria for classifying installations in category a should be changed cannot therefore be supported either. the financial guarantees shall be as follows: amendment no 37 which requires the commission to approve the relevant national procedures because it adds red tape without added value cannot be accepted. amendments nos 7, 38 and 39 cannot be accepted either because the original text provides a practical way of calculating the amount of money required. there are a number of amendments which specifically refer to the protection of water. the commission considered that this issue is already adequately covered by the relevant provisions of the directive which supplement the general provisions of the water framework directive, as well as by other community legislation on water which is applicable in any event. however, i can support amendments nos 29, 30, 32 and 33 which clarify the applicable obligations and refer directly to community water legislation. on the other hand, we cannot agree with amendment no 36 which regulates joint excavation operations to prevent water pollution. i understand the concerns of parliament, but i believe that this issue is adequately covered by the water framework directive. similarly, amendment no 42 introduces obligations to be applied during the transitional period granted to existing waste facilities, in particular the obligation to comply with the water framework directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. another source of concern to parliament was the considerable burden of the past represented by the polluting closed and abandoned waste facilities. although the need to inventory such enclosed spaces has now been incorporated into the common position, i have the impression - and as i said earlier - that the additional requirements imposed by amendment no 40 and the related amendment no 41 can be covered more effectively at member state level. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. amendment no 10 can help to promote the integration of the environment into other policies. amendments nos 17, 18 and 21 specify more precisely the content of waste management plans. amendment no 27 refers explicitly to protected areas. the commission supports these amendments which pursue the same objectives as its proposal. in conclusion, i am pleased to say that the commission can accept eight amendments in full and six other amendments in principle or in part. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission's position is set out in annex. i 'm not .
the debate on this point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday, at 12 noon. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept the following amendments in full: 14, 17, 18, 21, 29, 30, 32 and 33. the following amendments are acceptable in part or in principle: 4, 10, 12, 23, 27 and 39. the commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15, 16, 19, 20, 22, 24, 25, 26, 28, 31, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49 or 50.
the next item is a statement by the commission on dialogue with the churches and secular organizations.
the commission's vice-president i support what has just been said. the commission does not play hide and seek in this area. any dialogue, which by definition is an exchange, must be made public for those who wish to have it. this is in keeping with the spirit of our european institutions.
the debate on this point is closed.
the next item is a statement by the commission on aviation safety.
i have to say, madam president, it is true that august 2005 was a dark month for civil aviation, and it is good that we are once again looking at aviation safety. europe does not start from scratch, as i have to say to the honourable member who has not followed the debate. the commissioner has done that. the regulation we are discussing - it should be noted - was put on the table by the commission before the disasters. but obviously, only one speech is of interest; the matter is not so important then. the aim of our work must be to ensure that the citizens of the union, and in particular air passengers, are as safe as possible. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it is therefore important that we discuss this air carrier regulation as soon as possible and as seriously as possible. the rapporteur has done it. it is an excellent proposal and if we all come together we can really get this done very quickly - at first reading. we have set up the european aviation safety agency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'aircraft' in the definition of the term 'aircraft'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i already have a criterion. last week, this happened. a pilot for flyair returned to paris-orly with a broken plane. but instead of praising the pilot, the airline fired him. in this respect, there is already a blacklist candidate and i hope that the commission will take care of that. the commissioner should include in his considerations the possibility of tackling the low-cost airlines - also from the point of view of safety - perhaps a little more than in the past. otherwise, we're on a very good path together.
the commission's vice-president madam president, first of all i should like to congratulate you on the quality of this debate and the involvement of parliament which will help us to make more rapid progress towards improving aviation safety. we had anticipated this, since it was in february that i proposed to the commission that it adopt this draft regulation on consumer rights, which included the obligation for member states to provide all the information they had on dubious companies. this starting point was followed in april by an agreement in principle between the member states. but this summer has shown the need to go beyond what the member states have agreed. i myself had asked the member states to establish common criteria and had not yet been able to convince them completely. i would like to thank your committee on transport, and in particular mrs de veyrac, for her excellent work. we can now hope to benefit from standards of control, to ensure that a ban in one member state extends to the whole of the european union, and even, at the level of the commission, to possibly add a failing company to the blacklist. mrs de veyrac also mentioned the data which, at european level, will be much more significant and will allow much more effective action. the president of the committee on transport, mr costa, to whom i also express my thanks, insisted that the commission should explain its overall strategy. i am at the disposal of his committee to list all the elements of this strategy: the aircraft of third countries, the regulation you are about to adopt, the safa directive which will have to be transposed into national legislation before april 2006 and, finally, the new draft regulation which i will present to the commission at the end of september with a view to conferring additional powers on the european aviation safety agency. the strategy must be described in the clearest possible way and i shall try to do so, because it is by having an overall strategy that we will obtain the necessary results and that we will put pressure, i say it clearly, on all the companies so that they too really agree to subscribe to this effort to secure. mr piecyk, in particular, insisted that we had spoken about liberalization. we must not forget, however, that the development of competition has led to a certain reduction in fares, which has opened up air transport to younger generations and to more modest people. air transport has become more democratic thanks to competition. but of course there can be competition in this area only if it is subject to extremely strict and clear regulation. i thank parliament for its assistance in making this regulation effective and much more determined. mr sterckx also mentioned third countries. what took us so long? the member states were very often at odds over their national competences and found it difficult to accept a certain transfer of competence at community level. today the lesson has been learned and parliament and the commission must now be able to convince, and convince the member states to the full, that european competence is indispensable, not to remove national competence but to verify that these national competencies are exercised, with the necessary means and the required determination. this is how we will succeed in establishing a european air safety area. some of you have also mentioned the problem of staff. the new proposal for a regulation which i am going to put forward will also contain provisions which will enable the european aviation safety agency to take care of the crews, the pilots, their training and the flight plans, so that it can, in a way, give the crew both the training and the authority to impose flight plans and to avoid being asked to do things which are not or are not compatible with safety. this, ladies and gentlemen, is the task which we must now carry out rapidly, as many have pointed out, because we can no longer show a lack of determination in this area which would be culpable in relation to the citizens of europe. i am very grateful to all the members of this house who have taken part in this debate and i can already see in it the promise of quality legislation which should be adopted quickly so that we can be operational by the end of the year.
the debate on this point is closed.
the next item is the report by mrs barsi-pataky, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european satellite navigation programme (com (2004) 0477 - c6-0087/0156 (cod)) (a6-0212/20059).
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank my colleague, mrs barsi-pataky, with whom i have worked very well. i have known about this for some years and have often dealt with it. mrs barsi-pataky has adapted surprisingly quickly and has worked very openly and transparently with the shadow rapporteur. this was followed by a very unanimous vote without objections in the committee on industry. however, this unanimous vote also shows that the european parliament still has some doubts about this project. it is one thing to buy a project, a device, a system, but it is equally important to develop systems and to advance one's own technology. i think that's the most important thing about this project. the civil project in the european union, as i said, is to be built in a public-private partnership and, according to experts, will create up to 150 000 jobs. for once , i believe this forecast: it may well be, if we can get the project into practice relatively quickly, generate applications and then produce this solution in europe instead of importing it. we must succeed in doing so, and then the forecasts will be realistic. europe has the chance to build this project with the 3.5 billion, one third of which is public and two thirds private. i am optimistic that once the projects and the concession contracts are in place, the capital can be raised. it is important, of course, that we provide the public funds. and there is a great snare for me, because the council has not yet been able to agree on the financial perspective, and one of the points of the financial perspective is of course the one billion for this project. if the council fails to achieve by the end of the year - we have done our homework - to provide these funds and secure funding, then the concession contract will not be signed and therefore no satellite will be put into orbit. if that doesn't happen by december, we'll lose the frequencies. i think we've been at a crossroads before with galileo. the council has always been the party that has delayed development for a while. i hope we can get through this time. my group fully supports this proposal and will support it. i am aware of the oral amendments tabled by mrs barsi-pataky; i've been mediating here, and i think we can follow that. i sincerely hope that the council is not as petty as the shirt i am wearing today. i'm sorry, i haven't had a chance to change. i'll be a little more dignified tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is no doubt that this galileo project is of extremely high strategic importance and that a public-private partnership of this size is a unique project for the eu. i am grateful to the rapporteur for her work and i would also like to thank her on behalf of my group. i would like to give the rapporteur my full support on one point in particular, namely her call for the european parliament as a budgetary institution to have a seat on the administrative council. we as a budgetary institution should indeed be fully informed about the financial aspects of the galileo project. it's based on a real-life incident. third countries have bought in to a smaller share. i refer in particular to china, which bought into our project on 30 october 2003. china wanted to invest 20 million in the 3.5 billion project, 5 million were announced, but only 2 million were paid. for this 0.06 percent of the total, one thousandth of the total, china has full ownership of the know-how that galileo provides and full access to it. i've been looking into this myself in oberpfaffenhofen and i've seen that our know-how and our intellectual property are not secured. commissioner, i ask you to do everything in your power to prevent our technology from being sold to others. we want to have third parties involved, we want to win markets, but we also have to be careful that we protect our intellectual property. i would like to refer in particular to amendment no 22 by my colleague, mrs fiona hall, which calls for the european union to be given its share of the profits of the commercialisation, so that there is a clear distribution of profits. this debate deserves more viewers and more listeners, given its importance. we can't change that. i wish you, dear rapporteur, every success in the preparation of your report.
the commission's vice-president madam president, i will be brief, although the project deserves to be developed. i want to thank parliament for its support for this great programme. it is true that the financial perspectives will have to be in line with the situation, but in any case i believe that priority should be given to the billion for the galileo programme. the galileo programme, as mrs de veyrac has just said, is truly independent of the european union and will allow for many applications. it is clear that these applications will have to be accessible to the greatest number and will open up many new opportunities for our small and mediumsized enterprises. there is no doubt that there is a need to train staff to make full use of the new opportunities offered by this programme. i understand very well that parliament particularly wants to be associated with this programme. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs barsi-pataky for her report on which you are here to give your opinion. it's a comprehensive and high-quality report. i also thank your committee on transport and tourism and the committee on industry for their support of the european commission's proposal. i of course support parliament's concern to feel fully responsible for the implementation of this project, which will be developed in the framework of a public/private partnership in which companies will have their full place. it was said earlier that there were no private companies in the development phase. this is true in the development phase, but in the deployment and operation phase, it will be european companies that, through synergies, will carry this project. and that's what's very interesting about all of this. the authority will of course ensure that the objectives pursued by the european union are well achieved. the report by mrs barsi-pataky is in line with the commission's wishes and is in a position to accept all the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, with the exception of amendments nos 13 and 25. i will not comment on all the points raised. most of the amendments improve the text considerably and make a positive contribution to the programme. amendments nos 9, 10, 20 and 21 mention that the budgetary authority will have to give its assent if the financial guarantees or financial commitments arising from the programme exceed the budgetary envelope. i'll give you my blessing. i would also remind you that the commission has committed itself to ensuring that the future concession contract provides for the reimbursement of public financial contributions in the event that the profits received by the concessionaire exceed a certain threshold. it therefore accepts amendments nos 11 and 22, which provide for a profit-sharing mechanism, but specify that the reimbursement of the community contribution will not be automatically in full but will depend on the amount of profits made by the concessionaire. as regards the €1 billion, i would stress that it is the result of a precise assessment of the costs of the programme and the desire to obtain a strong financial involvement from the private sector. the commission accepts, however, the inclusion of the indicative nature of this amount at this stage through amendment no 19 as long as the discussions on the new financial perspective are in progress. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 13 and 25, which provide for the parliament to have observer status on the board of the authority. it seems difficult for the parliament, which is the main budgetary control body of the community as a whole, to be able to carry out this control and at the same time sit, even as a mere observer, on the board of directors of an entity which it is called upon to control. i would add that there is currently no precedent in the other community agencies. the experts appointed by parliament in some of these agencies are only ad hoc experts appointed for their qualifications and do not represent parliament as an institution. i think that parliament must retain its power of control and not be bound in any way by its presence, even as an observer, on the board of directors. i can assure you that the commission is prepared to provide the european parliament with all the necessary information, including, as some have said, the protection of our patents and the most sensitive technologies. that is why i hope that we will clearly respect our responsibilities to each other and that parliament will fully assume its responsibility for monitoring. i think it is better for that reason not to accept amendments nos 13 and 25, the spirit of which i understand but which do not seem to be in keeping with the spirit of our institutions. in conclusion, i welcome the work of parliament. i am convinced that the last point, which is part of a general interinstitutional approach, will in no way diminish the importance of parliament's role and will not hinder a rapid and positive development of the codecision procedure. i thank you, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for having initiated this great project which we can hope will give the younger generation a very positive and very dynamic image of europe. i thank you and i hope that parliament will support this great project by a very large majority.
the debate on this point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday, at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 142)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we too, mr kusstatscher, are concerned with prevention and protection, not in the field of leisure but in the field of work. but if the commission and the council are to be trusted, then there is something that construction companies will have to realise in the future: the workers who are outdoors will apparently need a certificate of safety against uv rays in future. time-consuming action programmes are being established for sunburn. bathing masters have to disguise themselves in the open water. the operators in horticultural establishments must not only carry tablets, but apparently also a pair of variable sunshades. what is being put together in this 42 pages - you have to think about it! - is a burden on businesses, a threat to jobs and a source of legitimate public horror. the rapporteur, mr csaba őry, has done a very good job and has presented a compromise in the committee on employment and social affairs. this compromise was supported by a majority, albeit a very narrow majority. we want to ensure that the member states themselves decide how to deal with this sunshine directive. we have set a standard of realism and against bureaucratic monsters with this proposal. the failure of referendums in some member states - others have hesitated to push the decision-making process forward - must show that citizens will only accept the european union if we focus on the essentials and if we really take the issues seriously and use our skills. elizabeth lynne is right: the european union is in danger of being discredited. it's been over ten years since the first reading of these optical radiations. the text of that time has almost nothing in common with the text of today. it is and remains absurd to say that we will protect workers in the same way throughout europe, even though we know that we have countries with completely different climatic zones. the workers themselves know from many years of experience how to deal with optical radiation and how to deal with it. some tolerate the sun very well, others not at all. they are making their own individual decisions; we do not need to interfere in that either. ria oomen-ruijten is right: we have seen a lack of response from the council. the council's attitude, even in this obscure proposal, is far from realistic. the german government, which is still in office, has naturally joined in. we, the cdu and csu meps, will consistently reject the common position, which does not guarantee subsidiarity. let us protect the sun from the european union's regulatory fury!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would remind you once again that the minimum health and safety requirements at work are already a european competence in the single european act and that employers have been obliged since 1989 to assess risks, to train and inform workers, to provide protective equipment if necessary and to document these measures. the technical directive in question does nothing more than set the framework for these measures, in a balanced and appropriate way, even where we cannot control the source. i therefore do not understand why the employers' associations are resisting this legal certainty. the only alternative for them is to provide simple measures such as leaflets or up-to-date information on health risks or to face the court judgments on the recognition of occupational diseases. i do not understand why they do not choose the cheaper measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr csaba őry, who has done an excellent job. where are we going in europe? we have a constitutional crisis. we have a financial crisis. people don't understand europe any more. we must do everything we can to get the citizens back on board. the proposed regulations on natural radiation in the common position will achieve exactly the opposite. these regulations are a classic example of over-regulation and bureaucratization. they are not in line with the european union's deregulation efforts. the commission and the council are always talking about better regulation for more growth and more jobs in the eu. but better regulation is not what i mean. that is precisely the kind of regulation we should be starting with. the council and the commission are going far beyond their objectives in terms of sun protection. there are also many practical considerations which argue against such a europe-wide scheme, due to the differences in climatic conditions in the eu alone. i do not think that the protection of workers from the sun should be given the same importance in finland as in spain or greece. we are taking responsibility from the people of europe! what about the workers' own responsibility? furthermore, how can you tell whether a sunburn is recreational or work-related? what would be the position on liability if employers were to carry out extensive risk assessments of solar radiation, as this directive would definitely do? i would like to give you one more example. i spoke to a man in charge of safety and health. he told me he was standing next to a worker and there was a three-foot-high flashlight next to him. he asked this worker why he didn't put out the flame. the worker then said: 'you are responsible for safety at work.' this is an example of the need to give workers the same responsibility. tomorrow we as a parliament will have the opportunity to set a signal for de-bureaucratisation and deregulation, a signal that we have learned from the referendums in france and the netherlands. i have tabled amendments with thomas mann, philip bushill-matthews and many other members of this house which take the sun out of the scope of the directive. i would ask you to support our amendments or at least to approve the compromise agreed in committee. we must win back the confidence of the people of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for several weeks now we have been witnessing in my country how cdu/csu members of parliament have been trying in a really grotesque way to exploit this directive on optical radiation for the german election campaign. the campaign has reached its sad culmination in the amendment tabled by mr ferber and mr nassauer, which rejects the common position as a whole. i might have expected such a proposal from the british tories, but not from the cdu/csu! in doing so, these colleagues are going against the whole of the eu's protection of workers. you're making him completely available. and at the same time they contradict their previous attitude to safety at work - that too must be said. the cdu/csu has agreed to all three other occupational safety and health directives. she carried them all. can anyone explain to me why the aim is to protect workers at work from the dangers of vibration, noise and electromagnetic radiation but not from the dangers of optical radiation? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you know that the primary purpose of this directive is to protect against artificial radiation. but you do not say a word about it, you build a fence around natural radiation and talk hypocritically about citizenship. the only thing that is needed is an obligation on employers to inform their workers of the health risks of exposure to the sun. the two amendments tabled by the pse make this quite clear once again. whether and how the worker then protects himself in practice against solar radiation remains entirely his own decision. i suppose it's not too much to ask for handing out flyers. such measures have made a great deal of progress in the past in the field of occupational safety. we also want to allow the member states to define their own specific criteria for carrying out risk assessments. this is a reasonable way of taking subsidiarity into account. what we social democrats do not support, however, is an à la carte system of occupational safety and health in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. let me start by saying something about the procedure. we are dealing here with a piece of the legal history of the european parliament, because in 1992 the commission decided on the dossier and we are debating it today in second reading, and i emphasize: in second reading. we are bound by the procedure for tomorrow's vote, which means that the dossier must be rejected or amended by a majority. as a member who was not present in this parliament at the time of the first reading, i find it intolerable that the commission and the council should not be bound by a proposal where a large number of members were not present. i have not been able to table amendments in committee, although the rules of procedure allow me to do so. that's why we should all insist that these curiosities come to an end. that is one reason why the cdu/csu has tabled this amendment to reject the directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of radioactive waste, and it is not the commission's intention to take any further action. serious about the constitution and lisbon. president barroso and his colleagues are always confused when they analyse the reasons for the failure of the constitution. they regularly call for the lisbon objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i wasn't in office. at the same time, however, the commission has quite a few officials who simply and poignantly ignore what their superiors say. better regulation what does it matter to the consumer advocates, those who are supposed to act accordingly in this area. they're doing business as usual. in germany, this is not a one-sided political issue. i am only reminding mrs jöns of the president of the german towns' day. maybe you missed this during the summer break. in any case, the president of the german towns' congress, who is also the mayor of munich and, as you know, a member of the spd, has called the sunshine directive into question. so there is a broad consensus in germany that we are in favour of a system that is workable. the compromise would be one way to do that. if the motion for a resolution calling on the commission to do a better job is not adopted, i would therefore ask you to support at least the compromise motion.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking all the members for their constructive cooperation in the committee. but i also thank the temporary committee on the financial perspective, because it has made a significant contribution to the fact that progress will not only be a good instrument for better implementation of the social policy agenda, but that we will also have enough money to really ensure more sustainability. with progress we take account of the results of the eurobarometer survey. the citizens want the eu to be more involved in the fight against unemployment and poverty. the first step is to ensure that the exchange of experience is well organized and structured. this means, first and foremost, that we need to do much more to promote mutual learning, whether through the support of european networks, whether through the initiation of pan-european studies and analyses or even through conferences. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the member states seem to have finally understood this. the commission's proposal has been improved and supplemented by a number of amendments. the improvements relate mainly to the increase in the total amount of the funds and a slightly different distribution of the funds among the various fields of action. in all, we have now decided on eur 225 million more for progress than originally planned by the commission. this sum also includes estimated inflation. we have been particularly active in one of the five areas of the progress programme, together with the committee on women's rights and gender equality, namely gender equality. i do not want to reopen old wounds, but i am firmly convinced that the strengthening of the principle of gender mainstreaming in all areas of programmes and measures would ultimately reconcile the women's committee, if there is no longer a formal independent action programme to promote equal opportunities in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are taking back a lot of that, but we are not taking money away from other important areas of action. we have decided to merge the rather high 10% flexibility margin, and this will allow the equal opportunities share to be increased by at least 4% and now amounts to 12% of the progress budget. the committee also attaches particular importance to five points in this programme, and i am counting on the commission's support in this respect. firstly, we want to increase the visibility of the various fields of action. the programme committee will therefore now also have five subcommittees. the commission is also proposing that the council should organise, once a year, a detailed exchange of views on the implementation of the programme in each area, so that the subject can be discussed in the specialised committees of this house with their participation. secondly, we want to continue to pursue transnational exchanges in the future, because that is the only way to achieve the desired european added value. and thirdly, progress should help to spread the experience gained in the programme among the member states really more rapidly than in the current programmes. of course, we as a parliament - and this is the fourth point - want to be more closely involved in monitoring the programme. i think that is essential, given the seven years of the programme. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i now come to the last point, the role of the social partners and the ngos. the committee was at a loss to understand why the commission wanted to limit their role to the mere pursuit of eu objectives. we believe it is essential that they are also involved in the further development of strategies. in addition, national and regional ngos must also be given the opportunity to participate in progress. the maximum co-financing should therefore be 90%, rather than the 80% or so that would be a major problem for many eu networks. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. equal treatment for men and women is a fundamental principle of community law. all the relevant policies and directives have made a decisive contribution to improving the situation of women, who make up the majority of our population at 52%. i thank mrs jöns for having emphasized this aspect in the progress programme. i am of the opinion, however, that the merging of the five areas of the social agenda is a political mistake and should not stand still. there should be a separate programme in the field of equality. i would like to give six arguments for this: first, the constitution strengthens the policy of equal opportunities; secondly, the responsibility for the equal opportunities programme has been in the committee on women's rights, as has the responsibility for the budget, and that is a good thing. thirdly, by creating the future gender institute, by gender mainstreaming and by having a relevant and independent programme on equality, the eu and we as a parliament will be very visible to women in terms of equality policy. every woman can see that europe is actively working for women. fourthly, the women's committee remains a driving force for women's rights and does not agree to any weakening, such as the planned merger of the daphne lawyer programme with the anti-drug programme from 2008. this is a direct attack on women's politics. fifthly, gender mainstreaming must be applied consistently in all the pillars of progress: employment, social protection, working conditions, anti-discrimination, because women are always exposed to multiple discrimination. and sixthly, the barroso commission has advocated putting gender equality high on the agenda. the activities are currently moving in the opposite direction. progress is putting women back on the social agenda, in the social drawer. but equality is a political issue. we lost the first round to women, but thanks to the amendments of the european parliament - thank you again, mrs jöns - the drastic reduction in equal opportunities has been prevented. i would like to point out to the commission that if the visibility and seriousness of equal opportunities policy continues to decline, so will the support of women. progress is only possible with women.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i too would like to thank mr henri weber for his report and i agree with his fundamental view that we are dealing with a european success story in this television directive. in recent years, the aim of this directive has been to ensure that the bulk of the broadcasting time is reserved for european works. the other crucial point is that europe is growing together and there needs to be more exchange of television programmes in all european countries. it is regrettable that the proportion of programmes from independent producers has decreased in recent years. the consequence should be more publicity and the possibility of european co-productions. i would like to address two problematic points. the media concentration has increased appreciably, especially in the new member states. we have to keep an eye on that. we cannot have a political interest in such a concentration of media, because media diversity means freedom and liberalism, and we must defend them. i agree with mr weber that there must be rules to protect media diversity. the second crucial point is that when it comes to adapting the directive to the new technological revolution, to the digital media, we must do everything we can to enable public television to participate effectively in these new technologies, despite all the competitive challenges, so that public television cannot be put at a disadvantage by the back door. because only by a diversity of media, including in the public sector, can our success be measured. with all the respect and commitment i have for public television, i must say as a german representative in the european parliament that the new possibilities also have to meet the requirements and that there must be no more such a thing as illegal advertising on public television.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the television directive is a directive whereby citizens can directly experience the benefits of europe and the european union. the issues of youth protection, consumer protection, cultural diversity and european content and european productions - these values are guaranteed for viewers in all member states of the european union by the 'television without frontiers' directive. i am very grateful to mr weber for taking up this success story and for putting forward the demands we need to continue this success story. we all know that television is no longer the only thing in our homes, but that we can increasingly record programmes via the internet, the computer and the mobile phone. it is not possible for the same consignments to be subject to different rules depending on where they are sent. it is therefore right that there is an urgent need to revise this directive. the commission and the british presidency will be holding a major conference in liverpool in a few weeks' time. i would like to make a strong appeal to the commission, to the member states and also to the companies and broadcasters to be prepared to continue this directive. i have the following essential demands: first, we need to close the digital divide, we need access to all media. secondly, the objectives of the television directive - safeguarding cultural diversity, dual system, youth protection and consumer protection - must also be guaranteed for new media in the form appropriate to them. that is why we give this report our broad support.
the rapporteur. - as rapporteur, i would like to point out that the commission proposal covers all the categories mentioned in article 13, including groups who are discriminated against on the grounds of their ethnic origin. it is therefore clear that progress will also deal with the special problems of the roma. i find it a pity that the committee never discussed whether or not to include the roma explicitly. we could have discussed this in committee. it is problematic to include one group again, because then we would have to include all the other groups concerned. so far we have only mentioned people with disabilities. we should also stick to that and not start to include individual groups. article 13 should continue to apply. i would also like to point out that it was my group which indicated in the vote in june that we would deal with the sinti and roma problem in this programme. i shall therefore abstain.
the rapporteur. - i would like to thank the members of the standing committee on the financial perspectives very warmly, because they have made it possible for us to obtain the appropriate funds and thus a good instrument for implementing the social policy agenda.
in writing. it's about the production of gelatin and organic gelatin. both types of gelatine are produced by the same production process, the only difference being the recording and control of the raw materials. raw materials for the production of organic gelatine are exclusively obtained from controlled organically reared pigs. all organic farming rules must be observed and complied with. part c of annex 6 to this regulation provides for the release of raw materials for the production of conventional gelatine, as up to a certain percentage of non-organically produced agricultural products may be processed into organic products. and that's right, because the demand for gelatin is currently much greater than the supply of organic gelatin. we have several companies in germany that produce organic gelatin. in order to continue to allow the production of this organic gelatine, the following processing aids should be included in part b of annex 6 to the regulation:
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as rapporteur for the committee on regional development, i cannot be satisfied with the budget which the council has presented to us. in particular, the reduction in payments by 150 million - i understand that as a reduction - cannot be satisfactory. we have tried in recent years, through the introduction of the n+2 schemes, to tie expenditure very tightly to commitments and to actually spend the money. basically, we're being punished for this effort by having 150 million less in payments. but overall we are punishing ourselves as the european union, because at some point the commitments will be called in. it has always been our policy not to allow the gap between payments and commitments to widen too much. the commission has really only presented the minimum necessary budgetary appropriations for structural policy in the preliminary draft budget. we want to reinstate them and i urge the council to do so.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr lewis, minister, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very important one. that is why it is so crucial to the other priorities and ambitions we have in common, or at least should have. i therefore express a clear criticism of the council's proposal: it is far too restrained and provides for drastic cuts compared with the commission's proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is a big difference between us and the council, namely 106 billion in the financial perspective. in our view, in order to make europe truly fit for the future, we must promote very specific priorities: research, education, youth, cultural exchanges in the enlarged europe, the environment and renewable energies - and i say this in view of what has just happened in new orleans. if you look at the budget figures in the european parliament's financial perspective and now in the council's 2006 draft, you see clear differences: the financial perspective provides for 10 billion for research, but the council has only 4 billion. the council's budget for the same period was only 0.8 billion. the european parliament has allocated 2.5 billion for energy and transport, but the council has only allocated 1.3 billion. this shows how small-minded and reserved the council's proposal for the 2006 financial year is and how little it is forward-looking. i believe that the draft budget for 2006 should be something of a bridge, extending over the next few years, from 2007 to 2013. that is why it is wrong to be so petty now and to propose such small budgetary measures as you have done. there is no correspondence between the speeches on sunday on the renewal of lisbon and the great economic potential we must rebuild and the figures you have given us here. the commission's communication strategy: after the failed referendums, we must have an interest in doing more in 2006 rather than cutting payments or making cuts to the flexibility instrument. i do not understand politically how the council, in view of the many challenges we are facing in the world, can be so petty and reticent about the flexibility instrument, instead of showing that the european union wants to be a global player here and is also responding to many crisis regions in the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. we simply do not think that the resources are sufficient to ensure that european environmental and health policy and our food safety policy are properly implemented. we are now 25 member states. the growth in the environmental sector is said to be just under 1%. in the field of public health, the level of 2005 has been maintained. some colleagues have already found this ridiculous. but now the council has added to the sum and reduced the already low appropriations. all the members of the council, in televised or in speeches, talk constantly about the creation of a europe of citizens. we have just heard in the house that the quality of life of the people of europe should continue to improve. but adequate financial resources for such a policy are being denied. i call that a confidence-building measure!
i have to say, madam president, if europe is to reach its citizens, we must work for them in a tangible way. this is most evident in category iii, where the council has made the greatest cuts. to make europe the most competitive, knowledge-based and dynamic region in the world means increasing the budget here. the report by mr böge is a guide for parliament. investing in education, research and youth, and consistently applying the principle of gender budgeting - we are light years away from that! you decide on concepts, the lisbon strategy, the youth pact, ambitious action programmes in the fields of research, culture and the media, and then you draw the money to implement them. if we want to get people to agree with our policies, we have to act on them. i thank mr pittella for having brought this contradiction of the council to light and i ask the commission to go along with parliament so that we can have a good budget that is clear to the citizens.
i have to say, madam president, the establishment of a sustainable common fisheries policy does not reduce the tasks in this area. without the necessary financial resources, it is extremely difficult to implement the community's objectives. i would like to mention just a few examples: the restructuring of the fisheries sector in the new member states, improved control activities in the fisheries sector, international fisheries agreements - for example the future fisheries agreement with morocco - fisheries research which provides improved data for the management of stocks. we therefore support the commission's preliminary draft budget and we are against the council's.
the debate on this point is closed.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr salvador garriga polledo, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the amending budget 4/2005 (tsunami) [11220/2005 c6 0239/2005 2005/2079 (bud)) (a6-0255/2005) and the report by mr reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the use of the flexibility instrument: tsunami (sec ((2005) 0548 c6-0127/2005 2005/2083 (aci)) (a6-0254/2005)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the british presidency of the council has spoken very statesmanlike about the requirements of foreign policy and has also been operating with some virtual figures. but what we have to discuss today, unfortunately, as a compromise, as a result of negotiations - and i can fully endorse what mr garriga polledo, as rapporteur, has already said on the amending budget - is actually contrary to this statesmanlike formulation and also contrary to what the council, for example, envisaged in its conclusions of 7 january 2005 in response to this great catastrophe. in this respect, what we are unfortunately discussing here is a wonderful example of the credibility, the sometimes uncertain events and the questionable timetables with which the european institutions are clearly sometimes only able to respond to necessary, current challenges. we should finally draw the lessons together in the negotiations on the future budgetary framework from 2007 onwards and also with regard to the necessary future instruments. the commission initially put forward a proposal which envisaged, for example, that the flexibility instrument should also be used in the order of 98 million. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. at the same time, the 13 million we have not yet found are to be raised over the next few months. it should also be noted that the corresponding transfers are made from budget lines which were already intended for this region. the british presidency and the council must ask themselves how all this is in line with the major millennium development goals to which they have repeatedly committed themselves in their declarations. i would remind you again that our reading does not necessarily mean that the council looked at the snake like a rabbit and said: we cannot allocate more than 15 million, otherwise we would have already used the flexibility instrument of 2005 with 200 million. the n+2 rule would still allow for margins. in this context, it should also be recalled that it was the european parliament which, in the negotiations following the adoption of agenda 2000 by the heads of state or government in 1999, said from the outset that category iv was chronically underfunded, just as foreign and security policy and the neighbourhood policy, on the basis of the luxembourg compromise proposal for the new financial perspective, were likely to be chronically underfunded. we have insisted and partly successfully negotiated that a flexibility instrument should be provided for in the case of an emergency. the development has proved us right: every year, in fact, this flexibility instrument has had to be called upon because of unforeseen events. i would therefore like to say explicitly that, given the embarrassing situation we are in in terms of time and funds, we are forced to accept this compromise. i would like to use this debate to reiterate that we will do everything possible to achieve greater flexibility and mobility, also in the context of the negotiations on the next financial perspective and the related instruments. i would like to expressly repeat what the house said in the report, namely that the creation of emergency reserves will be considered as a non-negotiable part of parliament's position. you know the corresponding figures and figures we have given. the commission has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not the council that has been the party to the treaty of rome. at the end of the day, we will have to agree on figures and find a way to make such responses in the future faster, quicker and more credible than in this procedure.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it took us nine months to clear the funding for reconstruction after this disaster. this is not a cause for rejoicing but rather a cause for a careful appraisal of our own possibilities and abilities. the council and the member states have been engaged in what can be described as a kangaroo policy, taking great leaps with empty pockets. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the budget. the council has unfortunately only done this halfway and very reluctantly. i am very sorry about this. he made promises and then left the responsibility for fulfilling them to parliament. the debate on financial technology has largely replaced money. it does not work, but it is very much in line with the behaviour of some member states. 22 member states have committed to a reconstruction programme. only nine of them have actually spent money so far, according to the commission's website. only three have so far come close to fulfilling their commitments. moreover, the website was last updated on 20 may 2005. the commission is not in a particular hurry to make the european commission's achievements in this area known to the public. that was said to me as the most up-to-date indication of the current state of the debate. i would like to express my appreciation to the presidency of the council. it is far ahead of the rest in fulfilling its promises, according to the statistics available there. what are europe's pledges of help worth in the face of such disasters? that is a question we must ask ourselves. i also remember the iranian city of bam. the earthquake there happened a year before the tsunami, and so far - at least that's what the red crescent says - 17% of the world's pledges have actually been met. we're on your side! if we cannot deliver on what we promise, it is better not to make empty promises to the people.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i should like to begin by thanking mr böge and the other speakers for their clear words, especially in view of the difficult debates between our three institutions over the last nine months. i would also remind you that after the terrible tsunami disaster, the council announced - and with a view to the world public - that europe would provide 350 million in fresh money to help the victims of the tsunami. this was announced at the beginning of the year for the years 2005 and 2006. we have shared this view, but we must of course also measure the council by this view. we have already heard the bitter arguments that have been raised, particularly over the so-called flexibility instrument. i too must agree with some of the previous speakers that the discussions we have had with the council over the last nine months have been somewhat embarrassing, and i too must express my criticism of the council's actions in this matter. i still believe that the funds which have been allocated to other aid programmes in asia and which are now being used for emergency aid must be re-used in any case, because of the millennium development goals. for me, this is a question of the credibility of the european union. if we are to make such promises and thus be recognised by the world public, we must also have the political power to actually implement these decisions and to provide the appropriate resources. i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on this matter. however, i believe that, in view of the victims, the european union could not wait any longer to finally decide and release these funds, because otherwise it would have had a negative impact on the credibility of the european union. i cannot, however, spare you the criticism, ladies and gentlemen of the council, of the petty and difficult negotiations you have conducted here, in view of what you have announced to the world! nevertheless, i would ask you once again - we are going to have to expect difficult negotiations in 2006 - to ensure that these negotiations in 2006 are different and that we can use the flexibility instrument as intended, namely for such emergencies. a challenge like this should not be met with such a small-minded response.
member of the commission. madam president, we finally reached a decision before the holidays; this was not easy, and the decision was quite some way from the first commission proposal. the experience was a painful one for all of us, mainly because we were slow in delivering on our promises and the respective budgetary authorities were not sufficiently sensitive to each other's positions. this experience showed how difficult it is to solve our internal problems and at the same time to help those in emergency situations in the world. finally, however, we reached a decision, and i hope that you will vote in favour of the mobilisation of the eur 15 million from the flexibility instrument in this plenary. regarding the eur 142 million on which a decision has already been reached, i can inform you that the commitments have been made. therefore, from our point of view, we have done the best we can. in response to your remarks, i would emphasise that we did everything we could in the way we could, but, of course, the know-how we have on improving administrative capacities to absorb aid can and must be shared. the commission will do this in the best way it can. the commission understands that, for this year, the issue of the financing of the remaining eur 13 million is still to be solved. the commission will be in a position to come forward with a proposal on the matter by the end of this month.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 5.15 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
the next item is question time (b6-0330/2005). we are dealing with a number of questions to the commission. part two
question no 38 by mr panagiotis beglitis (h-0581/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: exports of goods from the former yugoslav republic of macedoniathe thessaloniki european council (june 2003) called, in the context of the european strategy for the balkans, for the extension of the european system of diagonal cumulation of origin rules to the western balkans, with the aim of promoting economic development by supporting external trade. the commission is therefore moving towards the creation of a zone for the cumulation of rules of origin, which will initially cover the eu, croatia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the fyrom has already concluded a bilateral free trade agreement with the eu. what measures has the european commission taken to date to ensure that products from the fyrom are exported to eu member states not under the constitutional name of the country but under the name recognised by the un and the eu? what action does the european commission intend to take in the event that the authorities of the fyrom nevertheless insist on using the constitutional designation of the country in the accompanying documents, the documents and any other document relating to the exported goods, in order to defend the joint decisions of the european union on this issue?
member of the commission. moreover, i think it is important that administrative cooperation and mutual assistance be provided for in the agreement between the customs authorities of the ec member states and of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, in order to ensure the proper application of the protocol and the correctness of the information given in the movement certificates or invoice declarations. that completes the first part of my answer.
question no 39 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0595/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: spyware on the internet according to the world's largest security software company, the world is facing a massive threat from third-generation mobile phone viruses and increasingly sophisticated programs designed to spy on personal computers over the internet. the american government has decided to take a hard line against hackers and computer pirates who are currently threatening to cause massive damage to economies worldwide. the commission is asked to indicate what concrete measures it is taking or intends to take to put an end to this type of crime where possible.
member of the commission. cookies, adware and spyware and similar types of software are regulated by article 5(3) of the e-privacy directive. under this provision, accessing any user's terminal equipment, such as a personal computer or a mobile phone, or storing information on that equipment is allowed only if the user is given clear information about the purpose of such activities and if the user is offered the right to refuse it. this is a general rule when such devices are intended for a legitimate purpose, but the situation is different if the purpose is malicious and the intention is to harm a computer system or its user. these forms of malware are clearly banned by the e-privacy directive. as is generally the case with european union directives, the choice of remedies, penalties and enforcement tools lies with the member states. however, in february 2005, the 25 member states went beyond the e-privacy directive by adopting the framework decision on illegal attacks against information systems. under this framework decision, spyware-related activities involving illegal access and interference with information systems are punishable by criminal penalties of no less than one to three years' imprisonment, and of no less than two to five years' imprisonment when committed by organised crime. however, legislation is not enough on its own and may produce the expected results only if it is combined with other measures, such as complementary enforcement measures, industry cooperation, including standardisation research, and better user awareness. as far as enforcement measures are concerned, the eu has a contact network of spam authorities – cnsa that aims to ease enforcement cooperation between national authorities on spam and related issues. the last meeting of this network was mainly devoted to spyware, often spread via spam, and the challenge it represents for enforcement authorities and industry. spam, spyware and adware are just examples of the many security threats that risk undermining the value of the internet and of electronic communications. the commission is therefore planning to put forward a strategy for a secure information society that puts together various actions to make electronic communications networks safer from fraudsters, harmful content and technology failures, and to increase trust. another big step towards improving internet security was taken by the commission in 2004, when enisa, the european network and information security agency, was established. this agency has already hired its first members of staff and developed its work programme, and, in august 2005 – just a few days ago – it established itself in its headquarters in heraklion, greece, and will soon be fully operational. enisa will help the community, the member states and, consequently, business communities to prevent, address and respond to major network and information security risks.
member of the commission. let me reply briefly to the honourable member by pointing out that the establishment of enisa, the european network and information security agency, will provide a tool that will enable us to react very quickly to any emergencies or new developments which may occur. in addition, the strategy for a secure information society, which i will present very soon and which will then certainly be discussed by the european parliament, will be a second tool enabling us also to react at legislative level, if necessary, and if new technological developments and new abuses of those technological developments occur.
question no 40 is therefore admissible since the author is not present. part two
question no 41 by mr vakalis (h-0639/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: financial perspective 2007-2013first objection: the uk government's white paper 'outlook for the eu 2005' states that the financial perspective must meet the needs of the new member states. the commission, on the other hand, in its document 'financial perspective - why 1% is not realistic', states that 1% of gdp would entail serious financial losses both for bulgaria and romania and for the full integration of the 10 new member states. nor will it be possible to reach an agreement on this 1% rate to ensure financial balance between the 25 eu member states. second objection: the british presidency's push to boost competitiveness is incompatible with its proposal for a 1% rate. how does the commission intend to work with the uk presidency to overcome the deadlock in the financial perspective that we have reached without any loss to the old and new member states and without any loss to competitiveness?
member of the commission. there were a lot of perceptions and hopes. i share your hope that the presidency will want to reach a deal. if that were the case, we would be very supportive.
since they concern the same subject, we shall now deal with questions nos 42 and 43 together. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. subject: taking additional measures to promote the idea of a united europe and to show the citizens of the eu countries the real achievements of the eu following the referendums in france and the netherlands, the media and society are increasingly talking and discussing the 'crisis of european democracy', the 'distance between european bureaucrats and citizens' and the 'lack of awareness of everyday reality'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not yet clear whether the commission will be able to take action to combat fraud. however, as the results of the referenda have shown, there is a certain discrepancy between the official position of the eu and its member states and the opinion of the citizens. this is a signal that must be taken seriously and responded to, especially since eu governments often credit positive results (even if the commission has helped) to themselves and blame negative, unpopular and unsuccessful decisions on 'brussels bureaucrats'. what is the commission's position and your position as commissioner on this matter and what are the plans in this area? does the commission intend to take additional measures to promote the idea of a united europe and to showcase the real achievements of the eu? how will the commission coordinate its action in this area with the governments of the eu countries? question no 43 by gay mitchell (h-0623/05) subject: plan d the commission recently announced its so-called plan d for democracy, debate and dialogue, in recognition of the fact that much needs to be done to explain to european citizens why the eu is involved in key issues such as jobs, the economy, pensions, etc. that affect citizens. can the commission give advance information on the new initiatives it will propose to improve communication with eu citizens before the publication of its white paper for this year?
vice-president of the commission. thank you very much for wanting to support me in asking for the resources to be made available. of course, fine words are all very well, but we also need the resources to put them into practice. that is what we are involved in right now, in discussing the budget for 2006 and the future financial perspective as well. it is very important that we accompany these actions with the necessary resources. i am happy to announce that i have secured the support of the commission for a further 50 posts to strengthen the representation offices. these offices operate in each and every member state and are familiar with the debate. we have to equip them in the best possible way so that they can communicate with their own citizens, in their own language, where they understand the conditions, the sensitivities and the debate. i thank you for your support.
vice-president of the commission. first of all, we are investing much more in providing a rebuttal service; this is also a way of responding to the lies that circulate about the decisions taken here or in the institutions. this is, of course, a reaction, but we also have to be proactive in order to avoid ending up with all these lies or half truths circulating about what is going on. that is why we also have to engage in education and training for journalists, for example. indeed, we invite a number of journalists from member states every year and these courses are very popular. these are exactly the kinds of proactive activities we want to improve in order to improve communications. we are working together with parliament and the council to make the rebuttal service more effective. it often comes from the media; of course, i do not know how much comes from outside europe – it is impossible to say – but a lot comes from our own media, and we will work with the other institutions to improve the rebuttal service and to be quicker and sharper in how we respond.
- i'm not sure. is it not true that parliament and the commission are making a mistake in their respective information work, because they often concentrate on four-colour printed papers that nobody reads and that are only lying around in the information offices? we must realize that the misunderstanding about europe is due to the fact that national governments explain what is good for them, rather than giving the full facts. we had a discussion in germany about being the paymaster of europe. in other countries, there are other arguments. would it not make sense that at the moment, or even on the same day, when a falsehood or half-truth is being spread in a country, an association or a member of the government or a commissioner would speak up and tell the national press the right facts - it costs nothing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that means press and communications. nothing is done here yet. perhaps it is also because the commission does not have the courage to go against some national governments.
vice-president of the commission. i share your view that we rely too much on written material, on documents and brochures. we produce thousands of these brochures every year, but where do they end up? how many of these brochures are really read and how much do we invest in the internet, because this is where young people and the younger generation look for information on just about everything? we have to invest and strike a better balance in how we respond or where we put out information, taking account also of modern traditions. we have to do both, but the balance has to be improved. this is one of the actions in the action plan that i presented before the summer. we have to have state-of-the-art technology. we have to be more accessible and more reader-friendly in what we do on the internet, for example. it is all about using the tools that we have available in a much more effective way. we have to continue to search for the best ways. but what one person calls a lie, another person calls the truth. this will always be an ongoing debate, but we have to be more effective in putting facts and figures out. that is the role of the commission, and the other institutions as well.
question no 44 by mr lundgren (h-0637/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: union information strategy the commission has so far claimed that the lack of legitimacy of the union in the eyes of many union citizens and the widespread scepticism towards the proposal for an eu constitution are due to a lack of communication. the fault lies not with the union or the proposed constitution but with the ignorance of the citizens of the union. after the referendums in france and the netherlands, the commission has launched plan d, where d stands for democracy. does this mean that the commission has changed its assessment? does this mean that the commission believes that the eu institutions have already been given too much power at the expense of the member states and should now be given even more power under the proposed constitution? or does democracy simply mean more communication, i.e. political propaganda from brussels, to get the citizens of the union to change their minds and accept the union as it is or as it should be according to the proposal for a constitution?
vice-president of the commission. these two 'no' votes in two important founding countries of the eu have put the union in a kind of crisis, if not a crisis, but the 'no' vote has sent shock waves through the institutions. that's why we ask ourselves the questions: what are the explanations for these refusals? what is the meaning of the 'no' vote in the netherlands and france? it is important to do that analysis, to listen to the arguments that have been used. we know quite well what these arguments were in both france and the netherlands and what the explanations for these refusals were. it also reflects a situation and problems that are more far-reaching and exist not only there but all over europe. in my view, too much of this project has been reserved for a rather small political elite, and we must change that. people today demand more from democratic systems. they're better educated, they're better informed, they want to be involved and feel they can make a difference. this is where we need to improve our way of working. as i see it, there are also two "ways": a right and an obligation. the right is for me as a person to be informed about what is going on, how decision-making is going on, what is being decided about me and my daily life and my future. secondly, these democratic institutions have an obligation to inform citizens about what is happening, what decisions are being made and how they can participate and influence. we cannot pretend that we do not have this duty to inform. some call it propaganda, but to me this is a very important part of our tasks. informing people should be one of our basic duties. then it must be done in a professional and efficient manner. can you imagine any other institution of this size that would not be involved in a task of communication or have a so-called public relation, that is to say a relationship with the people whom you will represent in parliament and with whom we will have an exchange and a discussion?
i have to say, madam president, i agree with you on that point. 13 countries have ratified, two by referendum. these votes are as valuable as those of the two countries which have not ratified. the european parliament has direct democratic legitimacy. the commission has its legitimacy through the european parliament and through the governments elected in the national parliaments. the commission is therefore entitled to make political arguments in favour of the majority objectives in the commission. i would therefore ask you again: does it not make sense to bring this into the daily political debate? if, for example, a statement is made in country a which is clearly false, should not the commission's opposition or correction be announced on the same day through the national press conferences or whatever, so that such positions cannot be established?
vice-president of the commission. mr brok, the example i can give is if there are allegations, statements or debates in a single member state which contain obvious errors. in such cases, the representation office usually responds by making a correction or by stating the facts of the case immediately. i think we need to pay much more attention to cases like this, and it needs to be done locally. it is not always possible to conduct such a debate centrally from brussels or strasbourg, but one must respond to the debate which is being conducted locally and in the member states. i don't think we've been very effective in that area. i believe that much more needs to be done to ensure that citizens are given the facts, especially in the context of day-to-day debates.
vice-president of the commission. this is perhaps one of the most difficult tasks we have, namely to ensure that national politicians also take this aspect into account in their policies. i did the experiment to look at the agenda for the local council. i have looked at different municipalities in my country to see what is actually relevant to the decisions taken by the european parliament. in all these examples there were at least three or four issues which could be directly linked to the debate and decisions being made here, and which are of course common, such as environmental issues, trade or competition issues. it is important then that local politicians can explain that this is a concern which we share with other countries in europe. that is why we have a european regulatory framework. that is how we must try to solve the problems and adapt the rules so that they are compatible at all levels. this is certainly the area which will take the longest to become a natural part of the political debate at all levels, but it is the area we must strive for. we must have this debate with the member states, with the governments and the political parties. and you, of course, play a very important role in making sure that this is in the consciousness of people at all levels.
question no 45 by mr staes (h-0563/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: community legal framework to combat transnational waste crime there are considerable differences in the enforcement of waste legislation between member states and even between regions within the same member state. the waste legislation itself also differs widely within the european union. this leads to large-scale transfrontier shipments of waste, with fraud by waste crime regularly detected by the judiciary and the police. in view of the opinion of the advocate general of the european court of justice in case c-176/03, does the commission intend to take steps to establish a legal framework to combat waste crime at eu level and what are the commission's priorities in the fight against waste crime?
the commission's vice-president yes, of course, i totally agree with your point of view. if the court agrees with the commission's opinion on 13 september, which is shared by the european parliament, the commission will take action very soon.
question no 46 is therefore superseded by the absence of the author. the next question is question no 47 by sarah ludford (h-0574/05) subject: us no-fly listsin june, the director-general of the justice, freedom and security dg informed the libe committee that a no-fly list is simply a list of persons whom the us has decided it does not want to enter its territory. this does not mean that these persons are necessarily suspected of any wrongdoing. the united states simply did not want them to enter the country for various reasons based on general criteria. these criteria are being clarified in the course of discussions with the american authorities. what are the results of this investigation?
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, no specific proposals were made, but the need was reiterated to prevent persons suspected of serious crimes, particularly terrorism, from being on board an aircraft flying over the united states of america by means of a control on board. our request to the united states was not, of course, to interfere in the matter of american national security, but to obtain the guarantee of respect for the confidentiality of the processing of personal data. in response, it was decided to establish an office and authority responsible for the protection of personal data within the us department of homeland security. under the law of the united states of america, that authority is and will be responsible for any breach of the proper processing of personal data. this is a result, i repeat, of a request from the european union. as regards any other concrete proposals - i repeat once again - i believe that the only effective way is to have a direct and personal discussion with mr chertoff, and that is what i intend to do in the second week of october.
question no 48 by mr bernd posselt (h-0577/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: police academy and external border protectionwhat is the current state of play with regard to two of the eu's core projects in the field of internal security, which i mentioned in my 1998 report: the eu police academy and the common protection of the external borders?
the commission's vice-president as the honourable member proposed in his 1998 report, parliament's resolution on the effects of enlargement of the european union on cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs was the very reason for the creation of a european police academy and a community service for external border control. i think we can now be happy that both these proposals have already become a reality. as regards the first of these proposals, as you know, the european police college (cepol) was set up by the council decision of 22 december 2000 and i think it can be said that it is now in a position to fulfil its tasks. two council decisions in 2004 gave it legal personality and a permanent seat in the united kingdom, in bramshill. a proposal submitted by the commission in october 2004 to improve cepol's legal framework is awaiting formal approval by the council. i think you can say that a political agreement was already reached in the council itself in june 2005. the parliamentary reservations having been removed, i believe that the decision will be formally approved in september 2005. the proposal for the establishment of a specialised european service for external border control also led to the establishment, by council regulation of 26 october 2004, of a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the union. the agency, which is based in warsaw, has already started its work and has a budget of over six million euros for 2005.
i have to say, madam president, i am grateful to the commissioner for that excellent and satisfactory reply. i would also like to ask what is the position on the idea of further institutionalising the police academy and placing it under community control and financing from the community budget. what's the answer to that question? as regards the protection of the external borders, i would like to ask whether there is already any thought of establishing joint units at the external borders, or whether this is not the case at present.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the proposals for improvements to cepol, the police academy, will lead to greater control by the community institutions and certainly to more substantial funding. i believe that one of the objectives, one of the most important tasks, is to train police officers in the 25 member states. as regards the european border agency, however, it is clear that the definition of actions as you now wish has not yet been reached. i have always said that i am in favour of joint training of all the border guards of the member states, so that, if the conditions are right in the future, we can foresee a european border guard and border police force. there are still differing opinions on this, and i think it is necessary that the agency should be able to assist the member states in their operational border controls from now on. in this connection i can say that the first task i have given the agency is the mediterranean, namely the support of certain important actions relating to the control of the mediterranean maritime frontier, also with a view to strengthening relations with the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean, which is a very important task for europe.
question no 49 by mr papadimoulis (h-0578/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member statesthe european commission presented to the council on 10 may 2005 an action plan for the implementation of the hague programme for the period 2005-2010. at the same time, the council established a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (regulation (ec) no 2007/2004). can the commission tell me how operational cooperation between the member states is to be organised? will the agency carry out joint actions on the expulsion of migrants despite the express objection of the european parliament under article 2 of regulation (ec) no 2007/2004? has the agency decided to set up specialised offices in the member states in accordance with article 16 of regulation (ec) no 2007/2004? in what regions?
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the word 'respect' means fair and transparent comparison for this parliament. this morning i confirmed my readiness to submit as early as next week to the libe committee the whole package of proposals which the commission approved only last week. i think that my availability is rather timely, and the committee responsible for this parliament will be the appropriate forum to express any assessments that may be made.
question no 50 by mr claude moraes (h-0580/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: transparency at europolthe newly appointed director of europol left a positive impression during his visit to the committee on civil liberties in june 2005. a delegation of meps also visited europol's headquarters in april 2005 and the results were satisfactory. can the commission give details of its future plans for cooperation between europol and the eu institutions? what is the commission's view of the current system of accountability of europol to the eu institutions, including the commission? what is the commission's view that the member states have not ratified council framework decision 2002/465/jha of 13 june 2002 (2002/465/jha) oj l 162, 20.6.2002, p. 1, which allows for the establishment of joint investigation teams to combat trafficking in human beings, drugs and other forms of organised crime, in response to europol?
vice-president of the commission. we do not have that information yet, but i can reassure you that i will give you all the necessary information when it is available.
question no 51 is therefore inadmissible since the author is not present.
question no 52 by mr wuermeling (h-0598/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: german visa affairthe commission will deliver an assessment of the compatibility of german visa rules with european law at the end of july. what measures must germany take to return to eu-compliant visa application screening? is the commission aware of any such measures? does the commission intend to initiate infringement proceedings if necessary?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has dealt with this matter in depth after a written question from mr wuermeling, to which a written reply was recently given. the question, as many of you probably know, is about the conformity of two basic circulars, one adopted in 2000 and the other in 2004, on the issue of visas and the thematic implementing circulars of the two basic circulars. the first circular of 3 march 2000, the so-called völlmer circular, was considered by the commission to be contrary to the principles of the common consular instructions currently in force. we then examined the next circular, the one of october 2004, which replaced the previous circular of 2000. the conclusion we have drawn, after a first phase of in-depth study, is that the 2004 circular addresses and remedies the general issue of compliance with the common consular instructions in force. but we also pointed out to the german authorities, to whom we replied, and of course we also replied to mr wuermeling, that although the 2004 circular appears to be in line with the common consular instructions, clarifications, specifications and editorial improvements are needed in the text of the current circular, which was adopted in 2004. we have also asked the german federal government authorities to provide some answers on these necessary specifications and i can assure you that contact with the competent authorities is ongoing. i shall of course reserve the right to provide further comments as soon as they have been communicated to the commission services.
deputy author. thank you very much, commissioner, for the detailed written reply to the question which has now been received. you have just stated that the german visa waiver of 26 october 2004 still requires clarification, in particular on the points 'incorrect information by the visa applicant' and 'incorrect documents'. since you have also made it very clear that the common consular instructions leave no room for national provisions, my question is whether the 2006 revision will put an end to this once and for all.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr klamt for this supplementary question. we believe that the lesson to be drawn from this is that the visa system of the member states of the european union should be made even more harmonized. we also believe that in a matter such as the issue of visas, if the documentation is incomplete, there cannot and should not be room for doubt and uncertainty, even of an interpretative nature. this is why the proposal for a revision of the common consular instructions, which we will present at the beginning of 2006, will be even clearer in the event of incomplete information being provided by the applicant, or in the event of untruthful elements being identified, the rule will be absolutely binding: the visa cannot and should not be issued.
i would like to thank the commissioner very much for his clear statements on the vollmer decree, which was not in accordance with the law. i would like to emphasize once again that this is not just a german issue, but that many people have entered the eu territory via german visas and then moved on to other member states. i would therefore ask the minister to explain again how he views this 'damaging event' and how it has had a negative impact on europe.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although we do not have exact figures at the moment, i can say that the impact of a general application of the rules contained in the common consular instructions on visas has a very significant impact on the european union, as it concerns thousands of people who are applying for entry, who are applying for a visa. moreover, as you said, this is not a german issue in the strict sense, it is the need to ensure that all consulates in all member states of the european union prevent entry with a properly issued visa to those who do not prove that they are in the legal conditions provided for in the common instructions. if there are interpretative elasticities, even if not strictly speaking violations, the impact can still be extremely considerable.
question no 53 is therefore withdrawn, since the author is not present. the following is question no 54 by inger segelström (h-0617/05). subject: resettlement - refugee quota resettlement of refugees is an important instrument for finding lasting solutions to difficult and protracted refugee situations. yet, today, only a few countries in the world take in refugees in what is called resettlement. the eu could play an important role by introducing a common refugee quota. more member states than before should work together to ensure that the union can take more strategic action in close cooperation with the unhcr and combine resettlement with other longer-term measures, such as targeted support for returnees and integration in the former home. in the context of the hague programme, the council asked the commission to draw up, in partnership with third countries and in cooperation with the unhcr, so-called regional protection programmes. this includes a joint resettlement programme for those member states wishing to participate. in this context, can the commission state to what extent it has been able to initiate a joint resettlement programme so far? how does the commission see a permanent resettlement programme in the context of eu cooperation? what is the position on the willingness of the member states to participate in a joint resettlement programme?
vice-president of the commission. the regional protection programmes, which were adopted last week by the commission, aim to help, in a spirit of co-ownership and co-responsibility, third countries which have large refugee communities or are faced with large numbers of asylum applicants beyond their protection capacity. voluntary resettlement will be an important element in every regional protection programme in terms of providing a lasting solution for refugees and demonstrating the partnership element to the third countries involved. resettlement can help alleviate the burden of the regions of origin and consequently enhance their protection capacity. with regard to the development of an eu-wide resettlement scheme, the commission believes that it is more appropriate to follow a step-by-step approach, as resettlement is a policy that is new to most member states. at present, the objective pursued by the commission is to maximise the protection benefit and overall impact of the resettlement activities to be undertaken under the regional protection programmes. the objective is therefore to encourage and facilitate to the greatest possible extent member states' participation in the eu resettlement effort. in order to achieve that objective, the commission services are working on an amendment to the council decision of 2004 establishing the european refugee fund for the period 2005-2010, which would envisage that resettlement activities could be substantially financed by the community as of 2007. this proposal is due to be presented for adoption by the commission in october – very soon. as one of the stumbling blocks to any new policy initiative lies in budgetary support for its implementation, the financial underpinning of such a new policy is vital, as you understand very well. the commission believes that the possibility of contributing to the actual resolution of protracted refugee situations through the strategic use of resettlement in the framework of regional protection programmes, combined with a strong financial underpinning of resettlement activities to be implemented in this context will provide – i am convinced – member states with the incentive to participate in eu resettlement initiatives. the commission has noted that several member states are currently considering setting up their own national resettlement programmes. moreover, there is no broad consensus among member states on the need for a coordinated and systematic approach to addressing protection issues in regions of origin and an increasing acknowledgement of the fact that the targeted use of resettlement has the potential to deliver comprehensive and effective solutions to protracted refugee situations. finally, on the basis of the evaluation of the pilot regional protection programmes and taking into account the operational and logistical needs of managing resettlement on an eu scale, the commission will examine the appropriateness of bringing forward a proposal for a more structured approach to resettlement at eu level, which might lead in the long term to the development of a permanent eu resettlement scheme, something i firmly hope to see.
vice-president of the commission. we will work in this direction.
questions 55 to 94 will be answered in writing as the question time is over. for questions not dealt with, see the 'question time' annex. (the sitting was suspended at 7.10 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the proposal for a recommendation from the european parliament and the council on the protection of young people, human dignity and the right to be heard with regard to the competitiveness of the european audiovisual media and the european information services industry (com (2004) 0341 - c6-0029/2004 - 2004/0117 (cod)) (rapporteur: marielle de sarnez) (a6-0244/2005)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. like almost everything in life, the internet has its ups and downs, not just for minors but for adults as well. i know what i'm talking about. i'm also annoyed by a lot of the performances, even though i'm not a minor. the problem we face is to find a balance between freedom of information, which we all welcome, and the protection of minors. but you can't shoot over the target here either. there have been attempts in the united states to introduce certain filters. for example, all information about breast cancer was suppressed because the very word "breast" was ostracized as a pornographic representation, and all information was filtered out. we must warn against these dangers, and we must not allow this to happen! the perspective we're imagining is a self-directed and self-aware media behavior of children as well as adults. we need to do this because, of course, children under the age of 18 need special protection. we need child-friendly websites where the positive is practiced from an early age, namely that you can recognise positive images on the internet and exclude the negative ones. of course, we also need effective filtering systems that do not go beyond the target. we need filtering systems against pornography, we need filtering systems against racist and violent content; i wish that for adults in particular. in schools and educational institutions we need to train teachers so that they can also give children the information they need. we also need to introduce a quality label, under which we can advertise by positive example and then, on the basis of that, also condemn the negative examples. we shall table an amendment to ensure that the strict filters are not too numerous, but are nevertheless effective and capable of protecting our children.
member of the commission. mr president, parliament has made a number of proposals which i wholeheartedly support, since we share the same objective: the protection of our children. god knows that new technologies, because they allow for unlimited communication on a global scale, are confronting us as educators, as political leaders, with greater difficulties than we were with the technologies and media to which we were accustomed. when something negative is published in the printed press, it is possible to prevent its republication. when a negative program is on tv, you can stop it. however, on the world wide web, these possibilities are limited. it is therefore important to recognize that with the development of new media we have entered a technological reality which imposes on us far greater regulatory difficulties than with traditional media. and that being said, we have a responsibility as politicians, but also as parents, because i think most of us here are parents, too: what are we doing to protect our children from technological realities that are no longer controllable in the same way that they were in the past? i would like to say to the honourable members that we are not going to stand idly by in the face of this problem. we have been working with the safer internet programme for years, and we have seen that the telephone networks, the hotlines, for example, are working extremely well. we've seen the results of these hotlines when they're in contact with law enforcement. i would just mention the inhope network which has really helped to turn things around. the internet should not be thought of as uncontrolled. the internet is subject to different controls. in the old days, for the traditional media, control came from outside. for the internet, the control comes from within, from the users themselves. it is the internet users who, through our hotlines and portals, alert us to the existence of negative content. so most of the information about this, we get from educators, parents, everyday internet users and this is one of the new data in our policies: we have communities of internet users that are functioning by trying to control negative content. as legislators, we therefore need to think differently and empower these communities more. but we must not forget the responsibility of politicians, the educational world and, above all, parental responsibility. i fully agree with the honourable members on this point: we must give parents who want to the means to protect their children. filters are extremely important in this respect and the safer internet programme has allocated funds to test the effectiveness of these filters, because not all of them are very effective, it must be admitted. one of you has told an anecdote, we could tell many more. so we really need to invest in making the filters more efficient. some of the members, and i understand them, wonder why we do not choose more restrictive legislation, why we prefer light legislation to heavier legislation. there are several answers to that. firstly, the 1998 recommendation remains in force. today we are voting on an additional contribution, an improvement, a complementary action to what has already been decided. secondly, we are in the midst of subsidiarity, and we must not forget this. thus, under the 'television without frontiers' directive, the definition of harmful content and action on it is a national responsibility. i have already partially answered another question that has been asked: why not just accept the future revision of the 'television without frontiers' directive? well, because by transforming the directive on 'television without frontiers' into a directive on 'audiovisual content without frontiers', we are not including all the media. it is extremely important that all the media should be involved in this area. so not just the audiovisual media, the internet, but also the print media. another question which has been raised is that of the right of reply. we have had good experience in our member states with co-regulation, because we are also in subsidiarity on this matter. i therefore think we should stick to co-regulation. that said, mr president, i would like to stress that the primary aim of all the actions that will be carried out through safer internet, through 'television without frontiers' which will become 'audiovisual content without frontiers', through all the light and less light regulations that we will apply, is and remains the protection of our young people. i would therefore like to say to the members today that i was very pleased to hear from all the speakers that, in addition to paedophilia, which is a crime, and pornography, which is still prohibited in our various countries, according to different cultural modalities, violence is also a problem. for five years now, as the head of the media, i have been saying over and over again that it is not only pornography, but also violence that is very harmful to our young people. thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for recognising this fact and for helping me to move in this direction, because until now violence was not recognised in national and international regulations as being as harmful as pornography. we have therefore made a great step forward in this respect. but i think, mr president, that what parliament would most like to hear is what the commission wants to do about parliament's amendments which have been commented on by various speakers this evening. there are a whole series of amendments which the commission will accept as they are or with slight changes. it's late, i'm not going to go through all of them. i would like to begin on a positive note: the commission accepts almost all the amendments, although there are some amendments to the text which we can come back to later. i agree with parliament when it talks about the telephone booths and the filtering. and i've actually promised and made sure that part of our research budget is invested in improving filters, because, frankly, what we have right now is not very great. in this sense, mrs de sarnez, amendment no 33 on telephone answering machines and filters is one of the amendments which the commission accepts. we will support it through our policies. on the other hand, we have problems with amendments nos 3 and 5, mainly because they refer to the constitutional treaty, which unfortunately we do not have. we cannot commit ourselves to a text that we want very much but which is not yet available to us. as regards amendment no 13, you know that the commission has proposed dates for the switchover from analogue to digital, but this aspect has no place in the recommendation as such. moreover, the dates are not very close as the transition is planned for 2010 and the discontinuation of the analogue service for 2012. i wouldn't want to be futuristic. as for amendment no 27, which aims to reduce advertising of food products specifically aimed at children, although i agree with its principle, it is a matter of subsidiarity and i must say that industry self-regulation is working quite well at the moment. what is needed from the parliamentary point of view, from the commission's point of view and from the member states' point of view is to press for this self-regulation to be really effective in all respects. as for amendment no 28, we think it does not add anything and that it may create confusion because there is industry and industry, so why not all industries. as regards amendment no 29, it should be noted that local, regional and national cultural differences are also taken into account in the evaluation systems. these cultural differences, which i have been fighting for all my life, you know, do not work for me in this case, but they do exist and they must be taken into account. as for amendment no 32, the discrimination created by false and stereotyped images, we must, as some members have also said, strike a wise balance between the protection of young people and freedom of expression. as regards amendment no 34, we believe that the original proposal will be the most effective. as regards amendments nos 23, 37 and 38 on the right of reply, which have been discussed in almost all the speeches in parliament, i have received the message very well. i know how much this right of reply means to you. however, the shift from indicative guidelines to minimum principles, the coverage of all audiovisual and online information services, the replacement of 'allegations of fact' with 'inaccurate facts' all pose very acute legal problems. i therefore tend to listen to the commission's legal service when they warn me of the possibility of misinterpreting these concepts. that is why i prefer to go for a little more legal certainty. i also prefer the basis of the commission's text for amendment no 39. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i think we agree on 95% of what has been said and we agree 100% on the values that are ours and the values of our society of tomorrow, which is based on respect and on the way in which we protect today's young people. that's what's important. i think that we should put into practice the best means of achieving these results, and that is part of the realpolitik that the commissioners, but also the members of parliament, are well aware of because they are in contact with the regional and national leaders who will have to put into practice a good part of what we have decided today. so yes to values and yes to almost all the commission's proposals. i thank the rapporteurs and thank you for the very engaging speeches this evening, which i welcome on behalf of our european society.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr becsey, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 77/388/eec on the simplification of vat obligations (com (2004) 0728 c6 0024/2005 2004/0261 (cns)) and the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1798/2003 on the introduction of administrative arrangements for the single payment scheme and the procedure for the refund of vat (com (2004) 0728 c6-0025/2005 2004/0262 (cns)) (a6-0228/2005).
member of the commission. thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the house. thank you for mr. becsey's report and for your comments. i thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs for its contribution to our joint work. and i am pleased that parliament as a whole supports the commission's proposal. i cannot support the amendments proposed, unfortunately, for fundamental reasons, not of principle, and certainly not because i would doubt the good intentions of the proposals. it is not because they are unjustified, unnecessary, because they repeat solutions already contained in the proposal and because they concern unnecessary details. i cannot accept some of the amendments because they involve too long a timeframe, too distant a deadline, compared with the possibilities of electronic tax returns. i would like to draw particular attention to proposal no 9, which would set the minimum vat exemption for small and medium-sized enterprises at eur 50 000. that would be too much growth, it would distort competition. as regards the assumption in proposal no 10 that the directive would be unfavourable to the budgets of the member states and of undertakings, i can say that the commission considers that this danger does not exist, since the proposal does not change the taxation rules, but merely simplifies them. i would like to stress the importance of the proposal being implemented as soon as possible, as mr becsey has said in his report and in the comments, which would greatly facilitate crossborder business activities and contribute to competitiveness, growth and job creation, in other words to achieving the lisbon objectives. i sincerely hope that the european parliament's plenary session this week will adopt the commission's proposal. i also hope that the european parliament's decision will have a positive impact on the council's position.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs françoise grossetête on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on paediatric medicinal products and amending regulation (eec) no 1768/92, directive 2001/83/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 (com (2004) 0599 - c6-0159/2004 - 2004/0217 (cod)) (a6-0247/2005)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we have already heard that this legislation is a success. we should stress this and we should stress it again and again; i shall come to why i am disgusted by the small-scale and sometimes simplistic nature of the debate. we have tabled amendments in committee - i have tabled them myself - which say that there must be an acceleration of the legislation. we have waited so long for this for the children in the european union, that is why the legislation must come into force more quickly, and the role of the paediatric committee, which will be installed after the legislation, must be strengthened. i would also like to say the same to mrs toia's address. we're interested in a strong pediatric committee that will also take the lead. and yes, mr bowis, mrs grossetête and all the others, we need mice as a research programme, also initiated by the european union. we must also establish it legally and correctly, and it is part of the seventh framework programme for research. i would like to invite commissioner verheugen to work within the commission to ensure that the seventh research framework programme creates the opportunity and the money for this. i am sorry to say that this is a great success, but the debate we are having here does not give it the proper prominence. i think that the way in which we almost exclusively discuss the question of extending patent protection is cheap, pathetic and also shameful. interestingly, there is no discussion about extending the patent protection for drugs that have expired for 10 years, the so-called puma. why is this not discussed? because this creates a balance, so to speak, for generics and for the research drug manufacturers. not a word of this will be lost. this goes way beyond that, ten years of data protection! but this is obviously common agreement. but over the six months we give to the research drug manufacturers who still have a patent or are applying for a patent, there is a dispute like i have rarely seen in this house. i'm asking all those who have a strong opinion on this, have they spoken to patient advocates? i did that. i've spoken to parents who have sick children. they couldn't understand it. they could not understand this discussion, which they had partly followed in the environment committee. they said, "we want these drugs for our children". if what mr verheugen said happens, if there is an incentive to get more drugs faster, that is wonderful and exactly what we want. we don't care if somebody makes half a million less or half a million more. i want to make a good living doing research and i want to make a good living helping kids. that's what patient advocates and parent advocates say. i do not want to see this house, of which i have been a member for a relatively long time, break through the house, and see the countries and the representatives of countries which do not have a research pharmaceutical industry but only a generic industry say, no, six months is too long and others are not. we should pursue one interest. we should have an interest in achieving the best for the patients, and that is what the commission has proposed. i myself and most of my group will support it. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we welcome this regulation. the fact that over 50% of medicines used in europe for the treatment of children are neither tested on children nor approved for use in children is an aberration and is no longer acceptable. why has the pharmaceutical industry, which is always preaching self-responsibility, not in the past felt it necessary to carry out these very studies? this is a testament to the poverty of the pharmaceutical industry; she wants to make a fortune, make a big profit. i therefore think it is appropriate that we in the european parliament should have a very clear and open debate on the fact that this regulation must not become a self-service shop for the profit interests of a few. we must therefore also make the conditions very clear. this isn 't about a few million . it's about millions and billions. i agree with the colleagues who say that we should have had shorter patent protection. we have again applied for a four-month extension of the patent protection. i would like to ask all members to support this amendment. we want to make the conditions even clearer. these drugs must have some therapeutic value. it doesn't make sense that we're going to allow sighted eyes to make children guinea pigs in tests that have no therapeutic benefit. this is not acceptable. it has to be very clear that there is really only a reward for those who have done clinical trials that are successful. only when we do this together can we really talk about success. but we should not allow an industry wish list to be fulfilled here. the best interests of the children must be the primary consideration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the need for a regulation on paediatric medicines is unquestionable. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs françoise grossetête, for her very engaging presentation and for the fair discussion. it is certainly difficult to bring new points of view to the end of the debate. i would like to make a symbolic point: 120 seconds of speaking time in this house is very little in view of the importance of this milestone in european medicines legislation, but 120 seconds is a lot - i know this from my own experience as a senior emergency doctor - when it comes to saving the lives of children. the 120 seconds can also be a symbol for us that it is time for europe to finally put in place a regulation on paediatric medicines. i very much hope that we will reach an agreement after the first reading to put our common europe back in its rightful place in international competition in the important market of pharmaceutical research and production. i agree with the proposal for a uniform extension of patent protection. i have been convinced by mrs grossetête and now also by mr verheugen that this is the right, simple, practicable and workable way. we have included a review clause which gives us the right to rectify the situation if the profits are as exorbitant as they are supposed to be. we must discuss this very carefully. it is a question of children, our greatest asset, it is a question of human life and on the other hand it is also a question of economic interests. you just can't weigh them against each other.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the regulation on the safety of medicinal products for children is a necessary and sensible alternative. it ends a long period of uncertainty about the use of medicines in paediatrics. the commission proposal was balanced and based on impact assessment studies. the six-month extension of patent protection is an appropriate incentive for the pharmaceutical industry. the period shall be based on the results of the impact assessment study and shall be a clear and fair basis of calculation for all manufacturers. i am glad that a majority is emerging in parliament for this fixed period. variable patent protection is impractical and involves a great deal of bureaucratic effort. the duration of a patent must never depend on the sales of a product. the international competitive situation of the research pharmaceutical industry requires us to look at the attractiveness of the european research centre. i also see no reason why the six-month fixed period should be shortened, as is still being discussed.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking all the speakers for their support. there seems to be a broad consensus in the house that something must be done about paediatric medicines. i have listened very carefully and i would first like to answer the question put by some members as to whether the commission can ensure that the necessary funds are made available in the seventh research framework programme to ensure the necessary scientific and research policy backing for this legislative proposal. yes, i can assure you of that. i have already reached an agreement with my colleague mr potočnik. the 7th framework programme for research makes a clear reference to children's health and i expect the commission to adopt the programmes in question within a few weeks, as planned. let me say again, very fundamentally, and this from the man responsible for industry and business in europe, and it may surprise you: i am not interested in the interests of the companies, nor the interests of the industry, nor the interests of the public health authorities, i am interested only in the interests of the children in question. i have heard a number of arguments here tonight which have affected me because i perceive behind them a very clear, cold economic interest. i want to make it quite clear to you that the commission will not be involved in this. we shall not depart from our proposal on the crucial point, namely the duration of the certificate of protection. this is the basis of the whole proposal, without which the pharmaceutical industry, which is organized in europe in a private sector, will not be able to meet the necessary research expenditure. you may be sad that the pharmaceutical industry in europe has to make a profit. but it is so, and neither i nor anyone else in this house can change it. we have therefore an interest in the pharmaceutical industry in europe making a profit. it will only invest heavily in research where it can generate revenue. there's no way around it. i've heard some things here that are naive at best. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are creating such incentives, and that is why i am asking you once again very strongly - not in the interests of industry, the health industry or the authorities, but solely in the interests of the children and their parents - to support us. (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission's position the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept the following amendments: the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the application of the met and iter agreements. the commission can accept the following amendments in principle: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data. the commission cannot accept the following amendments: the commission has also decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of a number of measures concerning the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers against the dangers arising from the use of certain substances or preparations.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking you for the opportunity of addressing the european parliament. i want to take the opportunity to set out the approach that the british government will follow in its conduct of the presidency of the justice and home affairs council, which will be occupied by myself and my colleague baroness ashton, who is with me today. i start from the proposition that the european union has been a massive force for good. thirty-five years ago, when i was a student, we campaigned for democracy in this continent, to remove the fascist or military dictatorships which then existed in greece, spain and portugal, and the totalitarian dictatorships which then ruled much of eastern and central europe. those campaigns succeeded as, it is worth pointing out, did the campaigns in other parts of the world, for example southern africa and latin america. in fact, 11 of the 25 current european union member states have since emerged to democracy as full members of the european union. it is a magnificent achievement which we should continue to celebrate. of course the nature of our societies has changed dramatically over these years, economically, socially and technologically. it has changed in the composition of our communities, which vary across the union, with many communities of differing races, faiths and histories living together. but in all of this i believe that it is our duty to promote a society which is based on the true respect of one individual for another, one culture for another, one faith for another, one race for another. it is our duty to promote the view that democracy, and not violence, is the means of bringing about change and governing ourselves. we have to defend our values of respect, tolerance, freedom and democracy against any who wish to destroy or replace them with some other doctrine, particularly if they seek to use violence to promote their ambition. that is part of the history of the european union, but it must be central to the future of the european union too. as we look to that future we have to acknowledge that, despite the fantastic record, many of our citizens remain highly sceptical about the european union, to such an extent that in some countries the national referenda rejected the proposed new constitution in a way which suggested more deep-seated concerns. i believe that a deep reason for these doubts is that the european union does not appear to give sufficient priority to offering practical solutions which make a difference to some of the issues of greatest concern. i am referring specifically to serious and organised crime, including drug dealing and people trafficking, to illegal migration and false asylum seeking, and to countering terrorism, whatever its origins. these issues top the political agenda across europe, and they are often the most potent in mobilising political activity, often in a reactionary and even dangerous way. they can even be used by poisonous demagogues to undermine the very democracy which has in some cases so recently been created. it is not difficult to see why these threats motivate anger amongst our peoples. the threat from terrorism remains very real, as we tragically saw in london in july. in 2004 over 100 000 women were trafficked in the european union and over 8 000 people die each year from drug use, as crime and misery is fuelled in every part of the continent. illegal migration and a system of control which is too loose raise concerns in every city. i therefore believe that the whole of the european union – but in particular the justice and home affairs council – needs to give real priority to tackling these issues in a practical and systematic way. it is that conviction which will inform the uk presidency. in so doing i suggest three principal approaches. the first is that in our globalised world no single nation can tackle these problems alone, even in its own country. in a world with millions of international journeys and economic transactions every year, ideas of ‘splendid isolation’ or rhetoric about ‘the white cliffs of dover’ can do nothing to address international criminality, terrorism or serious and organised crime or address patterns of international migration. the need to fight terrorism and serious and organised crime means that we need more european cooperation and not less. the truth is that in each of these areas we will all, including within our own countries, achieve most by sharing experience, information and resources and by identifying and then targeting the threats systematically and consistently. i make the apparently obvious point that these threats are best tackled internationally, since there remain political parties and other organs of opinion within the european union which believe that protection from these types of threat can best be secured by the construction of higher and higher fences between us, whilst the truth is the opposite – our best chances of success lie in deeper and deeper cooperation. the second principle that must underlie our approach is to strengthen the foundation of practical and pragmatic police and intelligence work. in each of these areas – organised crime, terrorism, immigration, asylum – we have already taken action at the european union level. for example, we have agreed the european arrest warrant, common rules on penalties for and definitions of terrorism, people trafficking and other serious crimes. we have rules on police and judicial cooperation and we have established europol and eurojust to support their work. we have also strengthened freedom to travel within the eu and established the european borders agency. there is of course more that we can do and are doing. we have agreed a comprehensive programme of action in the hague programme and the counter-terrorism action plan. these contain many sensible, practical measures that will make a real difference to our citizens. if we want to demonstrate the real value of the european union, we now need to work together to deliver on those commitments. i would like in particular to highlight the need for practical european union support for intelligence-led operations and cross-border prosecutions, the development of joint teams to combat drug dealing and people trafficking, the sharing of information to facilitate joint work and the development of a european criminal intelligence model. in the field of migration and asylum, i hope that in this presidency we will succeed in securing significant european union readmission agreements with certain countries such as russia, ukraine and morocco, and develop pilot regional protection programmes. in the field of civil justice, we will focus on the proposal to facilitate small claims and the establishment of a single european order of payment and other measures. these are all important practical steps, which i hope will command widespread support from this parliament. but it is the third principle which i believe poses the greatest challenge in its modern application. that principle is that we need to use intelligence effectively and intelligently to target, track down, identify and convict the criminals who, through terrorist violence and serious and organised crime, threaten the security and strength of our society. indeed i would go further: it is only through the effective and intelligent use of intelligence that in our modern world we can contest the criminality which attacks us. of course criminals and terrorists use modern technology – the internet and mobile communications – to plan and carry out their activities. we can only contest them effectively if we know what they are communicating. without that knowledge, we are fighting them with both hands tied behind our backs. of course the criminals know that and actively and consciously organise themselves to take advantage of our weaknesses. it may seem obvious to state that we need to collect and use intelligence against the threats that we face. but the european parliament and national parliaments throughout europe need to face up to the fact that the legal framework within which we currently operate makes the collection and use of this intelligence very difficult and in some cases impossible. the rules that currently govern our law enforcement bodies seriously inhibit their ability to protect us against criminals. information is the lifeblood of law enforcement operations and it is that information which enables our police and agencies to prevent crimes with the minimum of impact on our daily lives. to tackle organised crime and stop terrorist groups before they carry out their activities, they need a clear picture of who the criminals are, what they are doing, where they are and how they communicate with each other. often that picture is pieced together after the fact. but if we are to be effective in dismantling organised crime groups we must analyse intelligence and information so that we can target our efforts on the most dangerous criminals. however, that need is not always reflected in the rules that we apply to our police. this is not a sterile debate about principles; it is about practical measures to contest criminality and our opponents. that is why the uk presidency, following the proposals set out in the hague programme, has placed on the agenda proposals on the retention of telecommunications data, establishing a second generation of the schengen information system and putting in place a new visa information system. that is why we argue that internationally consistent and coherent biometric data should be an automatic part of our visas, passports and identity cards where we have them – and i would even suggest driving licences as well. that is why we will work strongly to agree with our international partners, including the united states, the best measures for consistent international use of passenger data. these are all important and difficult measures. they can only be achieved through international agreements, particularly in the european union and between the european union and its partners throughout the world. they all require hard-headed discussions and practical agreement. this presidency accepts that, in considering proposals in these areas, it is incumbent upon the advocates of change, such as the british government, to make the case that measures of this kind have the practical advantages against criminality that i believe they do. that is why i am publishing today, as i promised the libe committee in july in brussels that i would, an explanation of the cases for some of these measures, in particular those relating to retention of telecommunications data. i hope that parliament will look closely at the case that we put forward. my colleagues on the justice and home affairs council will be considering these issues carefully at the informal council meeting in newcastle later this week. but i believe that the central point for us to remember, as we consider these issues together, is that we now possess many hard-won rights such as the right to privacy, the right to property, the right to free speech, the right to travel and the right to life. those rights are actively threatened by criminals and terrorists. we have a duty and a responsibility to help protect them for our citizens through practical measures. as we consider how best to do this, rights will always and inevitably have to be balanced. what matters in each case is that the steps are proportionate and that the protection against abuse is effective. i believe that our proposals offer that. let me just cite the example of retention of telecommunications data. this is proving invaluable in the current investigations into the london attacks and in many cases in the uk it has proved essential to solving crimes, often months or years after they were committed. communications service providers already retain much information for business purposes, but data protection obligations in some countries pressure them to erase data that has no business purpose. that means that catching a murderer or stopping a terrorist attack may depend on which mobile telephone company a victim, suspect or witness uses or has used, or which european union country they were in. some argue that to require telecommunications companies to retain data they use for billing purposes is an intrusion into privacy, or that it imposes undue costs on business. however, in the united kingdom we have successfully established a system, in partnership with a major service provider, to retain essential data for up to twelve months for the cost of eur 1.2 million. compared to the average costs for forensic work on a single murder case of over eur 0.5 million, that is an acceptable cost for the state to bear. others have argued that we are asking for too much data, for example, that there should not be a requirement to retain unanswered calls. in many cases, however, this is data that has already been collected by the companies for their own purposes. all that we are asking is that it be retained and made available to law enforcement under national law. there is perhaps a more general concern that the proposal is an unnecessary invasion of privacy or that it is disproportionate. i do not believe that it is, because in many cases, some of which i have set out in the document i am circulating, the victim’s right to justice was only achieved through the retention of telecommunications data. similarly, with the schengen information system, the next generation enables our law enforcement agencies to exchange information about individuals wanted for arrest or to be refused entry to the european union, as well as information on lost and stolen documents or other objects. this is a critical tool for ensuring our collective security and for guaranteeing our rights. equally, without a new system in place, the new member states will not be able to lift their internal borders with other schengen states. the council and european parliament will have to work together over the coming months to agree on the legal framework for the system. in my opinion, we will need to do this quickly so that the system can be put in place by early 2007. we all need to be sure that we are striking the right balance between our collective security and our fundamental rights. in so doing, we need to be sure that we have thoroughly explored the question of whether the schengen information system ii should be a control system or whether it can be used more effectively as a tool for law enforcement. in making judgements about this, we need to reflect on the balance between the civil liberty being affected and the increased security being achieved, to ensure that any changes we make are proportionate and reasonable. this also applies to the visa information system, where we need to ensure that those with a legitimate right to travel can do so, while those who seek to exploit our freedoms are deterred. increasingly, people use multiple identities to hide their movements. biometrics are the most effective way to ensure that we can prove someone's identity. a comprehensive database of visa applications with biometrics matched to each applicant will mean that genuine travellers are able to prove their identity easily and travel more freely. governments will have a clear idea of who is entering and leaving the european union, with the reassurance that they have the legal right to do so. the use of biometrics also means that if people destroy their documents or are found overstaying we are able to identify who they are and where they come from. the council and european parliament will need to work closely together to agree and adopt the visa information system regulation. the council aims to have the system up and running in consulates from the beginning of 2006. given the substantial lead-in time for the equipment of posts and training, there is real urgency to adopt this regulation as soon as possible. each of these examples is a practical measure that can enhance security and demonstrate the practical benefits of working together. in each case they will enhance the sharing of information. they will not lead – as some have argued – to the mass surveillance of our citizens or to unnecessary invasion of their right to privacy. however, i understand concerns that data may be misused or abused or that some people will be wrongly identified. that is why we need to ensure that in each case there is a clear legal basis for the exchange of information and that the basis should include the appropriate safeguards against abuse. of course the proposals that i have set out are an enormous agenda for this presidency and we will do our best to promote it. however, on behalf of the united kingdom government i also want to say that we believe that it is necessary to look very carefully at the way in which the jurisprudence around application of the european convention on human rights is developing. the convention, established over 50 years ago in a quite different international climate, has led to great advances in human rights across the continent. its achievements must be fostered and developed and not undermined, but i believe that in developing these human rights it really is necessary to balance very important rights for individuals against the collective right for security from terrorist violence. our strengthening of human rights needs to acknowledge a truth which we should all accept: that the right to be protected from torture and ill-treatment must be considered side by side with the right to be protected from the death and destruction caused by indiscriminate terrorism, sometimes caused, instigated or fomented by nationals from countries outside the european union. this is a difficult balance to get right and it requires all of us, as politicians, to ask where our citizens – who elected all of us here – would expect us to draw the line. i believe that they expect from us not only the protection of individual rights but also the protection of democratic values such as safety and security under the law. the view of my government is that this balance is not right for the circumstances which we now face – circumstances very different from those faced by the founding fathers of the european convention on human rights – and it needs to be closely examined in that context. i intend to discuss with colleagues in the justice and home affairs council how we might best address these issues in a manner consistent with our international obligations. i believe most strongly that the peoples of this continent want to be assured that the legislative regime which defends human rights must be used to defend the rights of all our citizens in a balanced and considered way and that it is our duty to discuss this openly. in conclusion, i believe that the ‘no’ votes against the constitution should be taken as a wake-up call to those who believe in and support the european project to focus on what matters. the right to safety and security is a fundamental concern for all our citizens. here we can show that europe can and does deliver real benefits to our citizens. we in the european union have a responsibility to rise to that challenge. it is not an area where we can fail them. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the european parliament for this important occasion, an occasion on which i renew, in my own name and on behalf of the commission, as i have done on other occasions, my sympathy with all those who have suffered and are suffering in the world as a result of terrorist attacks. i would also like, if i may, to congratulate charles clarke on his commitment, on the actions he took in a terrible and complex situation and on what you did in july, which you express in a word that i like very much, resilience. our european union, its citizens, its institutions and its member states, our union alone, can make the difference in a battle that no one, no state, no matter how strong, proud and prepared, can even imagine winning alone. here, right here and only together, can and will we achieve that success against the enemies of our democracy, can we demonstrate in concrete terms our solidarity, our profound closeness to all the victims of terrorism, those of europe, the united states, the middle east, the many arab countries which have also been repeatedly affected by terrorism. our task, our commitment to the citizens of the 25 member states, is to promote a comprehensive strategy in the fight against terrorism, which in my view can and must be based on three main lines: prevention, protection and response. europe cannot and must not miss such an occasion, because in the face of a threat which continues and will remain high, in the face of the challenges of terrorism, after new york, madrid, london, after so many attacks on the hearts of friendly arab countries and neighbours, europe today has an opportunity to be what reason, but also the feeling of its citizens have long been waiting for. we are being asked to be authoritative actors on the international political scene, actors in a challenge which unfortunately is long-lasting but which is decisive for the future of the existence of our democracies. in my view, what is needed is a political response, not a response of special laws and emergency laws. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not a mere mere speculation. this first response, in my view, is called prevention. first of all, prevention of the political design of an international terrorist network, which attacks and denies the core values of europe and democracies, attacks the fundamental rights of citizens, which is a pillar of the construction of the european union. the deep roots of violent radicalisation and terrorist recruitment must be exposed. we want to do this and we must do it by fostering an open dialogue with the communities, both religious and secular, and of course with the countries of the arab and islamic world, in order to bring about a common ground of values, a genuine universal citizenship to which we are all called to belong. it is a citizenship of which we europeans are not only proud but also jealous guardians, because it is based on the right to life, on the right to full respect for human dignity, on equality between all women and all men on earth. these values will and must have a political response. that is why we, as the commission, will be contributing to the debate, because in a few days' time, on 21 september, we will be publishing a communication to parliament and the council on violent radicalisation and the recruitment of terrorists. we must also develop international cooperation: europe, together with the actors on the international scene, together with the united states, together with the countries of the arab world, together with all those who are fighting because, like us, they are victims of terrorism. we must do this, in my view, by fighting and cutting off the channels and flows of funding that feed terrorism and terrorist organisations. the second line of action is the line of protection. we are working to make a contribution to the realisation of a fundamental, basic right of citizens, namely the right to live in safety, the right to live without fear in our daily lives. we are ready to present a european programme to improve the protection of critical infrastructure by the end of this year. it will be a complicated project, it will require a lot of research into security technologies and that is why we are promoting a deep dialogue between the public and private spheres, because it is clear that both are part of an action that aims to ensure that the infrastructures for the daily lives of citizens are safer than they are today. we must also put in place an effective response capacity, and promote ever more solid cooperation between the investigating authorities and the intelligence community, in order to try to create a genuine european network, which aims to develop the principle of availability, a decisive factor in fuelling the practice of exchanging information which is sometimes vital when available in order to prevent a terrorist attack. this is one of the many, in my view very important, meetings on the road to that mutual trust between the member states on which we are working. the european arrest warrant was approved, and it proved to be a successful experiment, as was shown by the events of last july. the next appointment is with the european evidence mandate, another important tool for improving mutual trust between member states' authorities. it is precisely on the basis of mutual trust that we are testing the operational capacity for cooperation, which does not depend on laws but on the will of the authorities of the member states, on the political will, first of all of the member states, to work together. where possible, we aim for fewer rules and more operational cooperation. we have never tired of saying, and i have said this before this house on several occasions, that in thinking and working on security we must maintain a strong and practical balance between the requirements of investigations, the right to investigate and prosecute very serious crimes on the one hand, and other fundamental rights on the other. i want to make it clear why i said 'other rights', because i believe that the right to security and therefore the right to life, the right that we all have to walk without fear in our cities, is a pillar on which fundamental rights rest, one of the elements that must never be missing in a strategy of balancing protection, prevention and guarantees. in short, we must also be able to balance the activities of investigation and defence, the protection of that right of each of us to privacy, the protection of privacy. this is an essential point which we will of course take into account when we make our proposals. we will be presenting a proposal for a directive on the retention of data for telephone and internet communications, and in october we will perhaps present an even more politically significant proposal: the first organic proposal on data protection in the so-called third pillar, i.e. on cooperation between police and investigative bodies. this latter proposal could for the first time in europe establish a truly european institutional framework, which as you know does not yet exist, to guarantee the privacy of individuals. we will discuss the content of the proposals to retain personal data, first of all there will be, among other safeguards, a clear guarantee that the data can only be used for a certain period of time after it has been collected, exclusively for specific purposes and only under the control and supervision of free and independent authorities, first of all the judicial investigating authorities. it is enough to consider that there are now 25 different legal systems in europe on this subject: some member states keep data for a few years, others do not make the data available to investigations because they destroy them immediately. finally, as minister clarke said, there are even cases where one company holds and stores the data of its users' telephone traffic and another company does not. we must all understand that only the harmonization of a european framework can make us stronger in this extremely sensitive area. we must be aware that we are engaged in a battle against time, that security is not waiting for us and that we cannot afford to give time to those who, without a face, want to strike us. it takes understanding, but also determination. the european institutions, our europe, have been struck by a further wound, a heart attack in our cities, after the crisis of the referendum. we are well aware of the importance of the response today, of how much an effective and balanced response counts for the future of the idea of europe and above all for our citizens. i therefore share the need and urgency for decision expressed by minister clarke, but i also believe it is essential that parliament should play a full leading role in this undertaking and that at this time, more than at other times, it should be fully associated in an institutional process which allows for maximum confrontation and responsibility sharing, first and foremost through initiatives in accordance with the provisions of the treaty. in conclusion, we must show common good will, europe with its institutions, this parliament, the council, the commission. it is not just a question of our common destiny, but also of making europe the political protagonist, that is, of giving an answer to our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. with the heinous terrorist attacks in london on 7 july 2005, we were again forced to accept an attack on our western civilization and on our shared ideals of democracy, human rights, freedom and peace. i would like to express to you, mr president-in-office, on behalf of the epp-ed group, and as the british presidency of the council, our sympathy for the victims and our deep solidarity. we were deeply impressed - we were at the conference of presidents when this news reached us - by the clever combination of determination and composure with which the people of london reacted and returned to a normal life. this is also a prerequisite for ensuring that terrorism has no chance of destroying our western civilization. so my thanks to the people of london! the london terror attacks continue the series of terrible events in new york and washington, bali, casablanca, istanbul, madrid on 11 march 2004, beslan a year ago and others. today's debate should and must make it clear that we will not relent in our efforts to fight terrorism with words and deeds and with all our resolve. the european parliament, the commission and the member states have recently made progress towards a common fight against terrorism. the problem is that many of the measures taken have not been properly transposed into national legislation or are not being applied by some member states within the time limits. i therefore appeal to the commission and the council presidency to do everything possible to improve our position. the european parliament defined the role of the european union in the fight against terrorism back in 2001. mr watson, who was then chairman of the committee responsible, wrote the report, as well as the reports on the european arrest warrant and the common definition of terrorism in 2002. just a few weeks ago, on 7 june 2005, we adopted a very comprehensive package of eight reports on counter-terrorism. we know - and this was also reflected in the two speeches by the president of the council and the commissioner - that europe can only fight terrorism from within and from without if it is united. this means, of course, intensive cooperation between the member states, but it also means action by the european community institutions. the fight against terrorism is first and foremost a spiritual and political struggle, because terrorism aims to destroy our free social order and is therefore incompatible with democracy. the struggle of democracy against the attacks of terrorism requires that we use all the instruments of the rule of law. no more and no less! the fight against terrorism can - i am deeply convinced of this - only succeed if we build it on the foundations of our democracy, the rule of law and international law. that is why there must be no legal vacuum in the fight against terrorism. but it also means that we now see it as our collective responsibility, wherever we can, to ensure the safety of our citizens. the european union was very successful in bringing prosperity to the people after the second world war by building the fabric of european unity. it is now one of our central tasks as the european union to make people safer by acting together. the more we succeed - you as the british presidency of the council, the commission, all of us together - in ensuring the security of citizens in the face of terrorism and crime, the more the european union will be accepted once again. i therefore call on us to take a genuinely joint action here. i would like to say to the islamic world: terrorism is often linked to a religious justification by those who propagate and practice it. this is a perversion of islam. i've visited about 20 islamic countries in the last few years. most people there and their governments want peace and not a clash of civilizations. we must not make the mistake of equating terrorism, where it is based on islam, with islam as a whole. we want to cooperate with the islamic countries in a peaceful and cooperative way. now it's up to us to do something together. my colleague mayor oreja, our coordinator ewa klamt and timothy kirkhope will say something very concrete about this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must express our readiness to dialogue with all those who want to settle the conflict peacefully. but we're going to fight those who don't want peace. we must not allow our determination to be in doubt, and that is why i wish you, mr president of the council, the commission and ourselves success in the fight against terrorism. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we had the same debates here ten years ago! of course you are right, mr. minister of the interior. it is clear that citizens give the european union a high level of competence when it comes to fighting crime and terrorism and the fight against trafficking in human beings and drugs. every eurobarometer survey of citizens indicates what the eu should do: above all, effectively combat crime, protect against the threats of terrorism, human trafficking. you say - and you are right, mr clarke - that we must work together more closely. i quote you: in a global world, no country can meet these challenges alone. that's right. that is why we need more cooperation based on mutual trust. but if we listen to franco frattini, we learn that this is precisely the mutual trust that is lacking and that when the member states work together, they do not trust each other because of their 25 different legal structures, because one country stores the data for five years and the other country deletes the data immediately. the commissioner responsible for this has been saying for the last ten years that we need more powers for the european institutions. all governments, including yours, say that everything will remain fine in the third pillar. until we resolve this contradiction, we can have cheap debates here. but we're not going to achieve a higher level of efficiency. we must make this clear to both institutions, the council and the commission, as a parliament. you've got to move, both sides! we're running out of time. our citizens - the referenda were, as you said, mr clarke, a wake-up call - clearly want us to fight terrorism and crime effectively. they want to be taken seriously: there is a european identity which could lead to common effective european policies. the attacks in london were not perceived by anyone in germany, italy, luxembourg, portugal or finland as attacks on london, but as attacks on all of us, on every single european citizen. so when i look closely at political developments, i see that there is a system of values that european citizens share, that they want to defend together. this means that we have long since established a value-based basis for this european union. the defence of these values is therefore a very appropriate task for this union. this is an important point in two ways: on the one hand, it's about - and i support charles clarke 100% - that we can't be stingy. i say it with this german word. those who threaten our values as terrorists or criminals know no restraint. you have no respect for basic civil liberties. then you have to answer them in the same clear language. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it's the only way. but the strength of a democracy is also measured by its ability to do both, to be tough and at the same time guarantee the basic rights of citizenship and citizenship for its honest and decent citizens. the principle of proportionality, which you mentioned, is the solution to this problem! hardship on the one hand, but fundamental civil rights and their guarantee on the other! we must do this, but we can only do it if the eu institutions on the one hand and the national institutions on the other cooperate in a spirit of trust. i would like to make one final comment on the question of how we deal with fundamentalists. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national networks of national networks. this is the task of moderate, democratically oriented islamic societies above all. and they are also found in turkey. in turkey in particular, an islamic government is in the process of establishing our western values. the attacks in istanbul that you quoted, mr poettering, were attacks against this government. then we should not block the way of these governments - especially the turkish ones - and this society to europe, because if we succeed in anchoring our values in an islamic society, then the thesis of the islamists that this is impossible is refuted. this is also a piece on active counterterrorism. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr clarke, mr vice-president frattini, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. many of our member states have had and have problems with terrorist attacks. in germany it was the red army faction, in ireland the ira, in spain eta, which tried to achieve their aims by force. the attacks were and are cruel and unjustifiable. but so far, these have been historical or ideological acts of terrorism, confined to a country or a region. with the events of 11 september in the united states, terrorism has acquired a completely new quality, and with the events of 11 march in madrid and 7 july in london, terrorism has also acquired a distinctly european dimension. it's not a national conflict anymore. it's about a massive threat to the western world. the london attacks have shown that the bombers do not sneak across the green border into europe to carry out terrorist attacks. they are people who live among us, who have adopted our nationality, who have attended our schools, who are in the professional world and who seem to be part of our society. so it's not that they didn't have a chance, that they were on the fringes of our society. on the surface, they seemed to be an unremarkable part of our society. but they obviously didn't feel connected to our ways of life, our values. on the contrary, these assassins have set out to kill indiscriminately and thus to take europe, our values and our lives out of the water. they have lived under us and beside us for years, sometimes for decades. but that doesn't mean they lived with us. the london bombings in particular have shown that the idea of society as a melting pot has failed. the misunderstanding of tolerance in the form of "everyone should do what he wants" does not lead to a colourful, fruitful fusion of cultures, ways of life and opinions in tolerance and openness. this misunderstanding of tolerance leads to parallel societies, to groups to which we have no access, whose activities we have little knowledge of, and which operate within our society with the aim of destroying this very society. the member states and the european union as a whole must therefore respond to this threat with both legislative and enforcement measures. we must work together and coordinate our efforts to protect our citizens. we need stringent european measures that are implemented rapidly, thoroughly and effectively at national level. the measures already adopted include the european arrest warrant. it is designed to extradite offenders within the eu quickly and relatively unbureaucratically. this too can help to neutralize terrorists and their backers more quickly. in germany, however, this european measure, which is good in itself, has failed. the courts had to release a german-syrian suspected of involvement in the madrid terrorist attack. why would you do that? not because germany doesn't have an anti-terrorism law. the current red-green government has implemented the european arrest warrant so clumsily that german law has not been upheld by the german supreme court. results: a terrorist suspect was released from custody and is therefore no longer a target for prosecution by the spanish authorities. this shows that errors in one member state can always affect the safety of people in all other member states. but we also need to take serious steps to integrate them into our society, so that madrid or london does not repeat itself elsewhere. permanent residence should be linked to the will to emigrate genuinely, to adopt a new way of life, new forms and standards in a new home. we must make clear what european society offers: human rights, democracy, freedom, equality between men and women, care for our fellow men, social justice and much more. on the other hand, we also demand that our democratic values, our idea of freedom, be adopted and safeguarded. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. we must have something to counter ideologies that culminate in extremism and radicalism and eventually in terrorist attacks and suicide attacks, namely a society whose citizens live together and stand up for each other because they live in a shared, viable and desirable society, in the building of which they have been and are involved.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! we find that the terrorists are now international. it is a transnational phenomenon with a destructive power previously known only from war. we also note that for this reason we have a new definition of security, theoretically, where elements of internal and external security come together. we must also recognize that we have not yet succeeded in organizing the integration of internal and external security in a meaningful way. we also have to recognize that sometimes it is better to have international responses to a cross-border phenomenon, for example when the perpetrators were trained in country a, parked in country b, the clients are in country c and the crime is committed in country d. that is why we need cross-border cooperation. mr president-in-office, you have also mentioned this in some instances with neighbouring countries where we need closer cooperation. i think that domestic and foreign policy should work together more closely here. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the internal market. mr wiersma has rightly said that cooperation between intelligence services, for example, with the exchange of data is much more important than harassing individual citizens in our member states. this can have a greater effect. it is also clear that whenever a terrorist act occurs, the member states meet in the council and make magnificent declarations, but do nothing. this is true for almost all member states. this list of naming and shaming is impressive, and it applies to my country as well. mrs klamt referred to the arrest warrant which had not been executed. for example, in my country the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters of 29 may 2000, the protocol to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters of 16 october 2001, the protocol amending the europol convention of 27 november 2003 and the enforcement of decisions on the seizure of property or evidence of 2003 have not been implemented. with all these lists, it's not gonna work. that is why i ask that the nation states finally do the agreed homework and get a handle on the implementation of the transnational phenomenon, instead of constantly making new speeches that excuse them when a terrorist act happens and then nothing happens again. we should not be part of this fraud on the citizen, and we should make that clear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. there is no ambiguity in this house about the need for more and better measures to combat terrorism and crime. i am increasingly concerned, however, that when new problems arise, national and international politicians often have no choice but to respond with new regulations, new directives, new measures. i am in favour of giving the police and security services new tools, but i am also in favour of proving that these new measures are necessary. i value - and this is important to me - that what has been done so far has been effective. what about cooperation between member states? this is the real problem in the field of internal security and the fight against crime. that is what my colleagues have just pointed out. 25 legal systems, not harmonised, lack of data exchange, lack of exchange of intelligence information. how do you deal with decisions? are they being implemented in each member state, yes or no? i would like to see a list of the areas where there are gaps in cooperation, the status of the measures adopted and their implementation and the functioning of existing institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am open to it, and we are open to considering new instruments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am thinking here of the fact that we have been asking for a year in this parliament to have evidence of the need for these measures in the field of data retention and that for the first time in these days we are receiving individual examples of this need. but this is not proof, but it's just one example of how it's been useful in these cases. it irritates me; i'm grateful that at least these examples are being provided, but i'm also telling you, it's not enough. mr frattini has just made the right observations: when we take new measures, first of all, we have to be clear that it is only certain data, that it is only used for a certain time and that it is only used for certain purposes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also expect parliament to be taken seriously. mr frattini has just said that he wants parliament to be involved. the council is not prepared to involve parliament adequately in the matter of data retention, as things stand at present, and that is not possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like you to take the following to the record: i had made a remark in my speeches on behalf of our group, which was taken up by mr voggenhuber in his speeches and interpreted in the sense that i would like to see the use of force by terrorists and criminals met with the same violence or the same structural approach by the security services against such people. this interpretation can only be due to the fact that mr voggenhuber did not listen to me fully. i therefore wish to state that my remarks are as follows: the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. but i added - and i repeat this here - that democracy is also strongly based on guaranteeing the fundamental civil liberties of all, including those people. that is the position of our group; there is no other interpretation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have read the minutes of monday and i have noticed that my name is unfortunately not on them, although i was here on time at the beginning of the sitting as usual, as the two ladies next to me can confirm. i ask that this be corrected in the minutes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to comment on the őry report. i would like to begin by saying that i cannot understand how such a legislative monster can be worked on in the commission for 12 years and then come to the conclusion that legislation on optical radiation, as regards solar radiation, may not necessarily be what the citizens of europe expect from europe. we should not be concerned in europe with things like the sun's rays, which are quite normal for many people and which they can protect themselves against in their leisure time, but with things which people really expect from europe. and it's really not the sun's radiation, but it's problems in the world. the war in iraq, the growing problem of terrorism - these are very different subjects, and i can only ask not only my colleagues but also the commission to learn from this incident, which has ended today in a very slight way with the vote, and to deal in the future with issues which are important for europe and which make citizens feel that we are dealing with the issues they are dealing with.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to comment on the report by mr őry. i voted against the report because i find it almost ridiculous that we in europe want to regulate everything in detail for our citizens. i think it is a profoundly socialist idea to protect the citizens of europe in all areas. i would have preferred that we had carried out an information campaign to alert the public to the dangers of artificial and natural radiation rather than adopting a directive. whether or not a citizen is exposed to natural radiation must remain his own responsibility. i think it is cynical that we should waste valuable time here discussing a sunshine policy while we leave tens of thousands of people, many of them children, starving and dying of thirst in the sunshine of africa. this is where we're supposed to find answers.
in writing. the rejection by the conservatives of the 'directive on the protection of workers from optical radiation' shows a high degree of cheap opportunism and is a blow to the backs of those affected. if you are serious about the dramatic rise in skin cancer among workers - according to german trade unions, more than 90,000 cases a year (the number has increased tenfold since the 1970s) - you must act! radiation does not stop at national borders. i therefore vote in favour of a european system of protection for workers and against the christian-democratic motion for a resolution rejecting the common position. i am in favour of a european solution which establishes the highest possible level of protection for workers exposed to optical radiation. the dramatic changes in climate are also causing more and more attention to be paid to natural radiation. the rapid increase in skin cancer in australia should be a warning to us in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i should like to thank our colleague, mr luis queiró, for his report. the report shows his enthusiasm and commitment to tourism. mr verheugen, you have rightly pointed out that the rapporteur is right that tourism is something that can create jobs, that has enormous potential. but mr verheugen, you must also admit that the tourism sector has been neglected by the commission so far, and i hope that you have read the demands and will tell us afterwards which demands you support. i want to mention five demands: the first is a tourism promotion package, an international advertising campaign coordinated with the tourism sector, to bring more tourists from third countries to europe. the eu's embassies abroad can also help. secondly, we need a uniform classification of hotel and restaurant standards in the union to better protect and inform consumers. thirdly, i believe that we need a uniform application of the reduced rate of vat to restaurant services in all member states. this is not to be handled differently. fourthly, we need to coordinate national holiday arrangements to avoid congestion on motorways and to ensure a more even use of holiday resorts. fifthly, we need better coordination of national and european emergency plans between public and private organizations to protect tourists in the event of natural disasters, health risks and the like. these are five points which i have taken from the extensive report by mr queiró. in hamburg, they say, "you have to butter the fish". it is not helpful to say that we are promoting tourism, that the commission is fully behind it, and yet nothing happens. so, commissioner, would you be so kind as to tell us about the many initiatives the commission is taking that you want to support? you have the powers, you can work as a commissioner in the context of industrial policy, you can work in the context of regional policy, there are many competences that you can pool for the benefit of tourism. do something, chief inspector!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank mr queiró very much for including the iron curtain trail in his report. the iron curtain divided europe for several decades. the memory of the division of the continent and its overcoming will be passed on to future generations through the iron curtain trail. twelve eu countries are already involved in this project. the german bundestag has already voted unanimously to protect the former 1,400 km stretch of the german-german border and open it up to gentle tourism. the green belt, from the northern arctic to the black sea, is also under the patronage of mikhail gorbachev and is suitable for promoting european identity. i am pleased to see the broad support in the european parliament and hope that the member states, together with the commission, will now speedily implement the green paper. it is a great opportunity to learn about european history, politics and culture in the truest sense of the word.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i too would like to begin by thanking my colleague mr queiró for his innovative report on sustainable tourism. i come from south baden, a region in the heart of the black forest where tourism is indeed a major source of employment, especially in rural areas where the transition from agriculture to the service sector is expected to succeed. i do not think that we need european regulations in many areas, and unlike many of my colleagues, i cannot ask you, commissioner verheugen, to consider further regulations in this area. the most important thing that tourists in europe need is functioning railways and transport. the airlines are no doubt one of them, even if some of our colleagues here do not seem to like it. if we are going to coordinate the holiday arrangements, we must try, unlike the sunshine directive, which was weakened a little this morning, to point out to the member states in a very long-term and discreet way that the directive was designed in accordance with the people concerned and is not intended as a european imposition. i believe that another point which will be decisive for europe is how to ensure safety at holiday resorts in europe. we have all heard the autopsies, and nine out of the ten victims of the accident in sölden in tyrol are from my constituency. if such accidents happen more often in europe, tourism will probably suffer more than if one or other of the points in the directive is not implemented. i therefore appeal to you, commissioner, to take the measures that we can take as the european union in the field of security, and to rely on the diversity of european tourism, which is its strength.
president-in-office of the council. our standard of human rights is set down in the copenhagen criteria. in that sense, the obligations which any candidate country has to meet are set out objectively and i hope, in the view of this parliament, independently. it is therefore important that the commission and others be given the opportunity to take forward that process of rigorous assessment, but i am cognisant of the strength of feeling, both within certain member states and among representatives here in this parliament. that is why we need to uphold the integrity of the process as we seek to move this particular dossier forward.
president-in-office of the council. i am fully aware of the long-standing interest in, and concern about, the issue of turkey expressed by certain representatives in this parliament. while i am respectful of the views that they hold, i would respectfully remind them of the decision both of this parliament and, indeed, of the european council on the issue of opening accession talks on 3 october – recognising, of course, the work that is presently under way. on the specific points that were raised: firstly, in relation to women's rights, a package of major constitutional amendments was passed in may that confirms the equality between men and women. the new penal code significantly strengthens women's rights, removing sentence reductions for honour killings and abolishing the article that enabled rapists to escape jail if they married their victim. i understand that the turkish parliament has agreed to set up a 15-member commission to investigate honour killings in turkey, looking at the causes and possible preventative measures. i am sure that is a matter which would find widespread support and would be welcomed by many members of this parliament. on the broader issue of religious minorities, which was the genesis of the question: it is also worth bearing in mind that the head of the syrian orthodox church in istanbul has said that, as a result of european union harmonisation reforms, his community has found it easier to worship, and that attitudes towards them have changed in recent months.
president-in-office of the council. – the council appreciates the keen interest that honourable members are taking in the question of croatia's preparations for accession. as for the next steps, the council reiterated on 13 june 2005 that the intergovernmental conference to launch accession negotiations with croatia will be convened by common agreement, as soon as the council has established that croatia is cooperating fully with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia – icty. as the member is aware, a high-level task force has been set up with the specific objective of examining, in close contact with icty and the croatian authorities, the measures taken and to be taken by croatia with a view to reaching full cooperation with icty. in this context, croatia has presented an action plan. in her letter to the presidency, dated 7 june 2005, the icty chief prosecutor, carla del ponte, noted that, by implementing its action plan, croatia was on the road to full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal but that more time was required to determine whether these further efforts had produced tangible results.
mr president of the council! i didn't ask you about what happened in may or june. i know that. i asked you what the presidency of the council was planning to do in the coming weeks. in concrete terms, will there be a general council before 3 october to consider the opening of accession negotiations for croatia? secondly, how does the council intend to inform the democratically elected european parliament of the work of the task force? does this task force even work, or is it only used to block accession negotiations?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard this before, but we have not yet heard it again. there is a lack of gender-specific health policies across europe. that is why mrs svensson's report is so important and i would like to thank her very much for it. it's really not relevant anymore that most drugs -- and this has been said before -- are still being tested on men only, when we know that because of biological factors, drugs work differently in men and women. but it must also no longer be the case that, for example, more women than men die of heart attacks because of the different symptoms of heart attacks, which are detected too late in them. it is equally astonishing to me that the package insert for medicines still contains no reference to any possible differences in gender-specific reactions. my group therefore fully supports this report, which calls on the member states to finally get serious about a gender-specific health policy. many of the demands made in this report are not new. this is a very important point, and i would like to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept this amendment. although we have had eu guidelines on early breast cancer detection in women aged 50-69 since 1992, only nine member states have mammography screening at national level. this can reduce the mortality rate by 35%. but this report also calls for screening for women over 40, where evidence-based data are available, because there are early indications that the mortality rate can be reduced by up to 20% here too. another important aspect for us is the chlamydia infection. this disease often causes infertility in one third of women, as it is detected too late. we need more data here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. although cesarean sections pose an increased risk to the health of both mother and child, the number of cesarean sections is increasing dramatically in several states. the reason for this seems to be the schedules of clinicians, additional earnings for private patients, but also private appointment requests from parents. that is why my group supports the call - first of all, of course - to the member states to draw explicit attention to the risks of cesarean sections, which are five times greater for the health of the mother and the child than for natural births. however, we also support the call on the commission to carry out further research into this phenomenon and to collect and disseminate relevant data. we also welcome the call to the commission and the member states to do everything possible to ensure that women are finally fully informed about the advantages and disadvantages of hormone replacement therapy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too, on behalf of the greens/efa group, would like to thank mrs svensson for this report and, above all, for this initiative. it has already been pointed out that there were failures, that gender differences were not seen. i hope that the commission will not stop at lip service, but that this initiative will also mean that more action will be taken in the future to redress this wrongdoing. in particular, we agree that female genital mutilation is a crime against women in many ways, including in medical terms. we must not stop at making appeals, but we must make a very clear signal as the european union, and i hope that the commission will take the initiative in this respect during the forthcoming presidency of the council. we need inquiry, we need reporting and we need punitive action against those who practice genital mutilation in the european union. chlamydia causes infertility in one in three cases. we need more awareness, more campaigning to bring this really dramatic issue to the public. we must not underestimate the risks of hormone treatment, of over-stimulation in artificial insemination. we must do more in this area as the european union, especially in the interests of women. i hope that this own-initiative report will be a real breakthrough at european level, so that the issue of women and health is put more at the centre.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would also like to begin by congratulating mrs svensson on her excellent report. it has presented a really balanced and largely complete report to the committee. it is important that the issue of women and health is addressed at european level. i also thank the commissioner for taking the initiative to do so, because firstly there is still a lack of information on the effects of many medicines on women and secondly research on women's diseases is still lacking. there are almost no clinical trials where drugs have been tested on women. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, i am particularly concerned about this. this also applies to osteoporosis, the secret national disease which particularly affects women. it is important that the fight against this disease is finally given a higher priority. i would like to say that the report, as it is now before the house, is unfortunately only a watered-down version of the original report presented by mrs svensson in committee. i am particularly angry that the report now calls for shorter working hours and higher pay for health workers, for example in paragraph 54. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i do not think it is right that we should bring up this point again in this good report. the same applies to an amendment tabled by the socialist group on unisex tariffs. we adopted a directive on unisex tariffs in 2004. i think it is inappropriate to ask for it to be revised again now. i therefore reserve the right, like other members of my group, to vote against the report tomorrow when it comes to voting on nonsense, which i think is very welcome in itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i should like to take this opportunity to ask the commission a few questions concerning the four smaller european schools. firstly, does the commission agree that the sharp increase in the number of pupils in grade i and ii at the european school karlsruhe is a clear differentiator between it and the other three small schools? secondly, is the commission aware that today more than 60 companies from the whole karlsruhe region have concluded category ii contracts? thirdly, can the commission confirm that the commission's financial contribution to the european school karlsruhe has been halved over the last five years thanks to these category ii contracts? fourthly, does the commission agree that today not only are children of category i of the staff of the transuranian institute attending this school, but that some 50 children from institutions here in strasbourg are also using the daily bus shuttle? fifthly, does the commission agree that the city of karlsruhe has only recently invested large sums of money in the renovation and extension of the school in an exemplary action with its own money? sixthly, why is the commission unable to give me the number of category i beneficiaries within a 100 km radius of the school in its reply to my written request of 15 june this year? can the commission still collect and publish these figures? seventhly, if the rapporteur says at the outset that category iii pupils do not pay enough to cover all the costs, how does the commission justify the privilege of commission staff, which is incomprehensible to all citizens, that parents of category i pupils do not have to pay any school fees? i would like to thank you very much for your attention and for your reply in writing to these questions, and i would like to invite you, commissioner kallas, to join me in the importance of this site on the sidelines of one of the forthcoming plenary sessions in karlsruhe.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we have a report for debate and vote today which takes a very broad view of the development of tourism, particularly in developing countries. the rapporteur, mr cornillet, deserves our thanks for this. of course, tourism is an important source of income for many of the world's poorest countries. it is therefore a credit to the rapporteur and to the committee on development that, in terms of the integration of tourism, the main focus has been on the fight against poverty within the relevant projects of the millennium development goals. i think that's very important. however, and this is my main criticism, the report gives the impression that the eu is telling developing countries from the outside what they should and should not do. i think that is unacceptable. i do not think it is acceptable for the eu to interfere in how developing countries should shape their visa policy. i do not think it is acceptable to ask developing countries to report annually to whomever, whatever happens to them. the call by the eu for the creation of special police forces has no place in such a report, in my view. the eu's habit of using this report to reiterate that tourism can help solve all the world's problems is unmistakable. i think that is very problematic. i therefore welcome the amendment tabled which calls for the deletion of recital q, which says that tourism is the enemy of totalitarianism, dictatorship and concentration of power. here is the wish father of thought; but this has nothing to do with reality. on the other hand, i regret - and mr kusstatscher has also mentioned this - that the real ecological problems associated with mass tourism are hardly mentioned here, at least not to the extent that would allow them to be solved. the amendments adopted by the committee on development and cooperation contain words which support this, but which are contrary to the general thrust of the report. my group will therefore not be able to support this report.
in writing. it is good that the european parliament finally sees the need for action on natural disasters. the eu is urgently called upon to increase existing public capacity, not least in the face of major fires in southern europe and severe flooding in central europe. even in the face of the utter failure of the us administration in the flood disaster in new orleans, the neoliberal austerity drive with its life-saving institutions being destroyed piece by piece must be brought to an end. the mixing of civilian and military structures, which is being advocated by eu military politicians such as javier solana, the eu's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, and angelika beer, a green mep, is being blocked. this mixing not only results in the militarization of civilian structures but also poses a very significant risk to civilian helpers, who are then perceived as part of the military and thus, as in afghanistan, also as a party to the war. in order to increase the amount of money available for disaster relief in the future, eu projects such as the galileo satellite navigation system, which can and should be used for military purposes, should also be discontinued. galileo is a subsidiary of the space and defence group eads. on the other hand, this system is many years too late to succeed. galileo will also play a crucial role in the future of a european security and defence policy geared to military intervention.
in writing. the fact that members of the spe group rejected or abstained from voting on paragraph 10 of the svensson report is due to divergent interpretations of the un resolution quoted and to the different language versions of the report, which unfortunately could not be clarified in the preparatory discussions. so, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, i would like to clarify the following as spe's shadow rapporteur: the rejection or abstention on paragraph 10 does not mean that anyone in my group is in favour of human cloning. we fully support un resolution a/59/516/add 1 ("declaration on human cloning"), which states that practices which are contrary to human dignity, such as reproductive cloning, must not be allowed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this call is clearly for the future, as it means that such practices should never be allowed in the eu and should not be financed covertly. unfortunately, in many language versions, such as english, french or swedish, the impression is given that today the cloning of humans is being promoted in eu programmes. that is of course not true, and that is why paragraph 10 of the report was not adopted.
a writer. the commission is not i congratulate mr meijer on his excellent and very precise speech, but i must say that i have heard some colleagues before, and i can only wonder about them. we should not be surprised that christians are being so brutally deprived and persecuted as they are today, when we consider the behavior of some of the european leadership. there are even speakers in this house who cannot condemn the brutal human rights violations against christians in china without first making anti-church statements that have nothing to do with the subject at all, who have to criticize world youth day in a debate that concerns the existential right of persecuted people. the european union is not a christian monopoly, and that is a good thing. but in the eu, 85 per cent are christians, 56 per cent are catholics. these are people who are also entitled to adequate political representation. who else but us should stand up for the persecuted tiny christian minorities, but also for the jews, muslims and buddhists in china? the islamic world is standing up for our muslim brothers and sisters who are persecuted in china, for example. it is only we europeans who have to put this into perspective or criticize it. we are therefore complicit in these human rights violations. when i saw the pictures of mr blair at the eu-china summit, i remembered that mr blair told us that for him the eu was more than a free trade area. i do not see that, because if he really considered it a community of values, he would have pursued a human rights-oriented foreign policy also on this issue vis-à-vis a large country such as china. the same applies to mr schröder, whose solitary attempt to relax the arms embargo we have thankfully stopped. we should finally find a unity across the parties to stand up for human rights and freedom of religion vis-à-vis a large country like china.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to stress what charles tannock said at the end. when president assad jr. took office, he was really greeted with a lot of hope. i have heard from christians in syria who know him quite well that as a member of the alevi minority, he is quite tolerant of other religious communities, not least of all of the christian one. the more disappointing it is that the brutal repressive apparatus of the baath regime, the intelligence services in lebanon and the police apparatus in the country itself are still operating unimpeded. i want to say this emphatically: we must set particularly strict standards for a country like syria, with which we are linked in the mediterranean dialogue and the mediterranean community. this country wants to be closer to the european union, and we should strongly support this approach. but this cannot be done without respect for basic human rights, without a process towards pluralism and democracy. it is clear that this is only possible gradually, but this process must be started immediately. we must send a clear signal of this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what you are presenting is the result of the conference of presidents and the subsequent discussions between the political groups. but a few minutes ago, in this house, there was a brief conversation between mr watson, mr pöttering and myself. we would jointly recommend that the discussion on uzbekistan be held during the october part-session and that the situation in vojvodina be discussed jointly now (interim) and that tunisia be retained. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our first priority was to exchange it, to get rid of tunisia and put vojvodina on the agenda. but since we are always anxious to reach common conclusions on these human rights issues, we will leave tunisia out of the agenda, but we will debate - as mr schulz has said - vojvodina instead of uzbekistan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that was the basis of our request - and i say this to my colleagues in our group - that we ensure that vojvodina is dealt with this week.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by extending a warm welcome to the observers, the bulgarian and romanian colleagues, on behalf of our group, and to assure them that we look forward to learning from each other. we who are already here will have much to learn from bulgaria and romania and to see how things go there. but our new observers, our colleagues, will also have much to learn from our work. if we have mutual understanding, we will also succeed together. mr president, you have spoken of the identity crisis and i welcome the assessment that we can make today as a result of your speech. you also spoke of the constitution. i am deeply convinced that the only way to respond to this identity crisis in europe is to succeed in translating the values that unite us - even between the different political groups - into european constitutional law. that is why our constitution - particularly in view of its part ii, which describes the values - should not be left ad acta, but must remain on the agenda because we need these values and because these values are the basis for our common future. that is why this 'no' must not be the last word in france and the netherlands. of course, we have to find the right time frame and discern when we are moving forward. we should think about this together with the commission. neither the commission nor parliament should have the impression that the constitution is no longer on the agenda. we are now thinking about how we can implement this constitution and its essential elements. i would also think it a good idea - and i believe, mr president, that you think along the same lines - that from time to time, independently of the european union presidencies, we invite heads of government to this parliament to have a debate with them on the future of europe. we are concerned, of course, that the citizens of this europe often see it as being very far away. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but at its core it is a question of the legislative work we do. i therefore say on behalf of our group that the commission's approach is right in principle, namely that we should legislate less. but what we do must be good, 'better regulation'. the commission's approach is correct. but i would also urge you not to go the wrong way by circumventing the procedures agreed in the interinstitutional agreement. i strongly recommend that before you take formal decisions - we agree with what you want in substance - you follow the procedures of consultation with the european parliament. if you want to take your decision next tuesday, it is not enough for mr verheugen - i do not know why it is mr verheugen - to inform the political groups informally today, but here we need constructive institutional exchanges between the commission and the european parliament. one of the most important points will certainly be the question of europe's competitiveness. we agree with commission president barroso when he says that we must not ignore this question because of the constitutional debate. the question of europe's competitiveness, together with the question of how we are to shape social europe, is the very central point. this also means that we must engage in a stronger dialogue with the national parliaments, because it would be a tragedy for the european union if a conflict developed between the european parliament and the national parliaments. we must look for common ways of leading the european union to a good future. i would like to address the question - and i want to conclude here, also because i see the deputy prime minister here in his capacity as president of the council - as to how we should proceed on the question of data and the fight against terrorism. we hear that some governments want to adopt only framework decisions on these matters, which means that the european parliament would be excluded. the uk home secretary, charles clarke, has said that the uk presidency of the council is prepared to involve the european parliament if we get results within a reasonable time. i would like to say on behalf of our group that we want to achieve results in a reasonable time because of the need to combat terrorism. i'll give you that. we also want the european parliament to be involved, we want to have a reasonable legislative framework, and we want to see this not just done by national governments. in this sense, i hope that the council, the commission and we as parliament will work well together, because if we do not work together, then this european union will be in even greater difficulties. it is our common duty to say: we are working together for the future of the european union. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not thank you very much for your speech on the basic direction of our work for the coming year. i would like to extend a warm welcome to the romanian and bulgarian colleagues and to all the groups. i would like to extend a very warm welcome to my friends from my group, but also to all those who do not share my beliefs, and to wish them good cooperation for the good of the european union in this house. but i would also like to call for hard parliamentary work and hard parliamentary debate, because that is what the european union needs. this house is the seat of european democracy. i would like to take this opportunity to quote my dear friend hans-gert poettering. i agree with him: we cannot accept that the commission, acting as a high-ranking officer, should act on the principle that we will inform the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung through mr verheugen of what we want to withdraw. the next day mr barroso tells the international press what he is withdrawing and parliament has not been officially informed to this day, although the commission would be obliged to inform parliament under the interinstitutional agreement. but parliament certainly has a right to know what is going on in the secret committees of this house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr barroso could have given us a lesson, he was invited. he said he couldn't come. i was then informed that he would not be able to attend because mr poettering was not present. well, i said, "that's obvious too". if mr. poettering isn't here, then it doesn't make any sense either! i am now able to find out from the press where mr barroso was last thursday when he was unable to attend. the chairman of the epp group is getting upset, we are not being informed. we could have been informed last thursday if hans-gert poettering had not attended a joint event of the epp think tanks in lisbon with josé manuel durão barroso. it is not the commission that should be complaining if it is itself responsible for the failure to meet the deadlines for informing us. i do not mean mr poettering, that is not his job. i can sympathize with him, but i cannot sympathize with the president of the commission. i do not accept - and you, mrs wallström, are telling this to mr barroso - that the president of the commission tells the international press what he wants to do, but not the european parliament. this is unacceptable! i cannot accept that a president of the commission, whose task it would be to fight for this constitution, should say in a press conference on his return from a long holiday: i haven't heard from him in a long time anyway. we should be doing other things now. the constitution will not come so quickly without it. i wonder what the president of the commission's attitude is towards the states which have ratified the constitution and towards those which are in the process of ratifying it. what are these countries supposed to think of this commission president? i'm not criticizing the content. it is true that we must do a better job of legislating and that the superfluous should be withdrawn. i agree with that. but i want to make it quite clear again, mr president, that what you have announced in your work proposals for the year ahead can no longer be done in the way it has been done so far. it is important that the european institutions cooperate. the commission and parliament must cooperate in particular. but then i also expect the commission to go to parliament and make parliament the place to debate the future of europe, and not the commission's press conference or briefing in brussels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would remind you that there are several billions between the figures proposed by parliament, that is to say our proposals, and those which were not adopted at the summit, that is to say the 1.07% which was on the table as a compromise. but there is twice as much money between the commission's demand for the financial perspective and the actual will of the council. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. he should have said: 'this is how the european union is being destroyed!' the commission's absence from the debate on the financial perspective and the constitution has been too long. we wholeheartedly support all the points you have proposed, but we hope that the commission will get back on track, especially its president. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is more than symbolic that we are today giving a warm welcome to the observers from bulgaria and romania, and at the same time recalling the great success of solidarność 25 years ago. i am glad that the commission is today declaring itself to be the solidarność movement. one might think that there are more recent events and that history has had enough of the celebrations of the past few weeks. but our debate today shows us the opposite. when i was able to attend the warsaw and gdansk (danzig) conferences four weeks ago, i was able to feel the urgency of this groundbreaking historical event. we remember this legendary solidarność strike as a living legacy that has retained its importance even after 25 years. we are talking about the unconditional will to reform of the politically and socially oppressed and disadvantaged, who have succeeded in bringing about the end of the totalitarian communist regime in poland and subsequently in other countries of central and eastern europe through their courage. but first, we bow to the victims of these totalitarian regimes. we remember those who were repressed, those who were arrested, those who were shot in protest strikes, those who were convicted and executed in show trials. i will name one man on behalf of all of them, the priest jerzy popiełuszko. the years 1953, 1956, and 1968 in east germany, poland, hungary, and czechoslovakia speak for their historical importance. but it was also the case that solidarność supported and strengthened the civil rights movements in central and eastern europe, such as charter 77, which pursued the classic political human rights, or "swords to plowshares" in the former east germany, which was committed to peace politics, or the ecologically oriented dunakör movement in hungary. all this means that without solidarność, the berlin wall would not have fallen! for us, i say: for those who supported this solidarność movement in poland, the discussions were important, with our friends adam michnik, jacek kuroń and our colleagues today bronisław geremek and janusz onyskiewicz. we are therefore very grateful for the foundations laid 25 years ago for a europe united in peace, freedom and democracy, with a social and ecological orientation. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to start by thanking alexander radwan and the economic and monetary affairs committee for the excellent work done on this dossier. let me stress that the work on the capital requirements directive has been a very good example of efficient cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission. considering the complexity of the issues involved, i think this has been a real achievement. a state-of-the-art accepted supervisory framework for both credit institutions and investment firms is important for the financial stability of the european market and in creating a level playing field, not just within the european union, but across the global financial community compared to those countries also following the basel ii process. our proposal has been prepared in close cooperation with member states and the finance industry and was subject to extensive consultation. it is in line with the basel ii accord, but takes account of european specificities where necessary. even the latest proposals for the treatment of trading-related activities will be included. this proposal provides a regulatory framework for financial activities in the eu. it improves the supervisory regime currently in place, which is primarily based on regulatory capital requirements. the new regime will have a solid basis of three pillars. firstly, more risk-sensitive regulatory capital requirements, which are closer in line with banks’ own practices; secondly, an enhanced supervisory review process to ensure a closer fit of these new requirements; and, thirdly, disclosure requirements which improve transparency and market discipline. this proposal represents a move to an altogether more sophisticated and refined approach to supervision and risk management. by adopting this proposal, the eu will be the first international organization to implement the new basel ii framework. this will be a major step towards better banking supervision and will foster greater effectiveness of the european financial markets. let me now turn to the comitology issue. as we all know, this debate is linked to the wider question of the powers of the council and the european parliament in the comitology procedures. we need to make sure that the legislative process does not come to a halt. i do not believe that our citizens and the industry would understand that important legislative proposals, such as those on the table today, are taken hostage on account of an issue such as comitology – important as it may be. we need to find a pragmatic way to ensure a smooth legislative conclusion to the comitology provisions in the capital requirements directive. i welcome the efforts made by the european parliament and the council to find agreement on this issue. i think we all agree that adoption in first reading of this directive is in the interest of all three institutions and it is also what the marketplace wants. comitology being a general issue, we must look at it in its general context. the commission submitted a proposal for a modification of the 1999 comitology decision in 2002, followed by an amended proposal in 2004. this proposal already took into account important elements requested by the european parliament, in particular that the european parliament and the council should be put on an equal footing as regards their powers in the comitology procedures. it is in large part thanks to the persistence of parliament, and of your rapporteur in particular, that the council will now take up work on revising the comitology decision, using the commission’s revised proposal as a basis. i welcome the initiative taken by the presidency to set up a ‘friends of the presidency’ group to launch the discussion on the commission proposal in the council. this is an important step forward. the european parliament must confirm urgently whether its support of the commission proposal still holds and if not, identify clearly what it wants to achieve. the commission stands ready to cooperate both with parliament and the council to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion on this delicate matter as soon as possible. let me make only a few more specific points. i understand the european parliament’s interest in creating a much stronger sense of urgency with regard to the question of its powers to supervise the commission’s exercise of its implementing powers. but introducing a sunset clause, coming into force on 1 january 2007, would be too short. there is a serious danger that such a drastic reduction in the duration of the sunset clause would send a wrong and dangerous signal to the marketplace that the adoption of the necessary implementing measures could become highly uncertain. the council has indicated that a period of at least two years is acceptable. in the light of the discussions that have taken place, the commission considers that this is a viable period. the introduction of such a reduced period for implementing powers – much shorter than the normal period of four years – clearly emphasizes the need urgently to find a solid, lasting and balanced solution for the supervision of the commission’s implementing powers by both branches of the legislative authority. all institutions must work together to reach this solution as quickly as possible. in this regard, the commission notes that in the first half of 2007, the first sunset clauses under the so-called lamfalussy process will start suspending the commission’s implementing powers for two directives - the conglomerates directive on 11 february 2007 and the market abuse directive on 12 april 2007. while the commission lives by the commitments made by the then president, romano prodi, and my predecessor frits bolkestein, when the european parliament approved the lamfalussy process, the commission understands that a renewal of its implementing powers for those directives would be problematic in the absence of an overall solution on comitology. this very fact should motivate all institutions to make progress. failure to agree would not only spoil the spirit of cooperation between the institutions, it would also be detrimental to the further development of an integrated financial services market, which relies heavily on the availability of executive powers within the context of framework legislation agreed by codecision. i would also add that other policy areas would be affected from a lack of agreement on comitology. before concluding, i would like to reiterate my call on both parliament and the council to work constructively towards a solution. the commission from its side will assist wherever it can to ensure that the sense of urgency that is now being given to this matter does not evaporate. the commission has long recognized the need for a solution to be found and i believe that the conditions are now ripe for this. i look forward to hearing your comments.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and all the other members of the committee for the constructive way in which we have all worked together on this directive. i would also like to thank the commission for the work we have done together over the last few years - this is a project that did not come about overnight - to make progress on this. i think this can be a good example of how we can cooperate in the legislative field in the future. i would like to start tonight by mentioning a little bit of wormwood. i would like to join our committee chairman in saying: we have here a legislative procedure of great importance for the financial sector in europe and for smes. and, mr president, i would like to inform you, on behalf of our president, and also the administration, that parliament has full legislative powers on behalf of our president. if you go through this week's agendas, you might find another area, another position, unless you really think that all the points which will be discussed during the week are of higher priority than the acts which we adopt in the full co-decision procedure. i would also like to include the doorn report, which also deals with the full legislative powers of parliament. we have always stressed in this directive on behalf of parliament that it is important for us to make certain areas compatible with basel. basel is an international agreement. we have always been interested in small and medium-sized enterprises. it has always been important to us that the small banks in this regulatory framework should be given special treatment so that they can continue to compete. i am referring to the partial application, to the demand in the report that banks which in future choose the standard approach should not be discriminated against by national supervisors because they choose the standard approach. i am referring to the granularity of the commission proposal agreed at basle, which is no longer in the parliament's resolution and which cannot be reinserted through the back door. i would point out that this also requires implementation in national parliaments and in supervisory practice. then we have some new things in this directive that will change financial supervision in europe, i am only mentioning the lead supervisor, a system whereby in future one supervisor can overrule another supervisor in approving the internal rating. we are on our way to a european market. i would mention, and there was a great deal of consensus among us in parliament, the disclosure of ratings, which is particularly important for mediumsized companies. i am also grateful that the council has finally accepted parliament's compromise proposal. intergroup exposures were discussed at length. i have said from the beginning that in the internal lending of banks we should always treat risk equally, and that from a risk perspective. this is not a competition paper, it's a risk paper. we should not presume to have structures here, because we have different structures in europe. we cannot say which structure is better than the other. but we have to weigh the options. we have found a compromise here too. we have therefore achieved a good result in terms of material things. the problem is and remains the comitology. i would like to stress that the committee on economic and monetary affairs has always supported the comitology of the lamfalussy procedure. we believe that it is a correct and important point for rapid, market-oriented legislation. but we have always seen the lamfalussy agreement as a possible constitution, with a call-back mechanism. we don't need a constitutional debate today. but if we are to draw up further lamfalussy comitology directives in the future, it is necessary to make a new agreement to that effect, which will ensure that parliament's rights are properly safeguarded by allowing us to 'take back' rights when we delegate them. by "take back" i mean better control, possibilities of definition, but also a general withdrawal of authorization if something should go wrong. i would also like to say, without going into the doorn report, very clearly and emphatically: the decision in the doorn report excludes a certain area. the committee on economic and monetary affairs will be responsible for international accounting standards. i think that, even if we do not decide that tomorrow, the international agreement on accounting standards should also be included in this agreement. it is not possible that in future international bodies will define definitions and implement them without parliament's control. i would just like to remind you that some time ago there were people here in parliament from the ias board of directors who said that we were working on sme standards. the commission has already made it clear that it will not accept these standards without appropriate checks. i hope the presidency will take up the compromises we have presented today. i am optimistic about the date of the sunset clause, but also about the considerations that we will reach a good compromise this week and that we will achieve the objective of the first reading. i hear from many member states that they are doing so now, and i think we are on the right track to do so. it's the council.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the present draft directive is implementing basel ii in the european union. this will lay the foundations for increasing the stability of financial markets. banking supervision can be made more efficient and greater emphasis can be placed on risk. in addition, minimum standards for risky transactions are laid down. we have had a very intensive debate on basel ii in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and have dealt with some 900 amendments. in addition, there were a number of compromise amendments which the rapporteur, mr radwan, worked out with mr ettl and myself. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the very trusting and constructive cooperation. in the subsequent troika discussions, the council accepted a large number of parliament's amendments, and we made some concessions and compromises to it, so that the technical and material part of basel ii can be considered as balanced. as a liberal, i am particularly pleased that it has been possible to find rules which can ensure fair conditions of competition between the different groups in the banking sector. the liberals and democrats expressly support this package. in this package there are two proposals on islamic loans and mortgage loans and one on energy companies, which we personally do not approve of, because basel ii should not be used as a means of creating special safeguards or special situations for certain industries. but overall we are in favour of the whole package. we have also tabled the amendments to the trading book. it is very positive that, thanks to the good and rapid work of the commission, these can now be adopted in the basel ii voting and thus ensure consistent application in this area. another area of discussion in the context of basel ii - and all the speakers have already referred to it - is of course the question of comitology. no one disputes the importance and usefulness of the comitology procedure. this will allow the adoption of implementing rules for basic acts to be rapid. however, this procedure must not undermine the rights of parliament. the constitutional treaty provides for a strengthening of the rights of the parliament. the future of this treaty is uncertain, but parliament's concern remains of the utmost importance and timeliness. the troika negotiations have proved to be particularly difficult as regards comitology, as was to be expected. after weeks of pressure from us, the council has set up a working group called friends of the presidency - commissioner mccreevy has referred to this - and thus for the first time recognised the need for a new interinstitutional agreement and the need for action. but promises alone must not be enough. we want a concrete date by which there will be a new interinstitutional agreement strengthening our rights. we are proposing to the council a sunset clause for 1 january 2008 and we are now awaiting its response, which we hope will be positive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. basel ii has become a catch-all phrase for smes in europe, where the more difficult the situation, the more difficult it is to obtain credit. this would of course be an extremely bad signal for the economic situation in which europe is currently found. i would therefore like to thank very warmly the rapporteur of our group, mr radwan, for his extremely difficult work in this area. i believe that the directive as presented in the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy provides an excellent basis for the fear that small and mediumsized enterprises in europe will not be affected. the second point i want to raise is the one which mrs berès has also raised. it's not often that i agree with her, but at this point, i do. it is astonishing that the american banking world, which was originally supposed to bless us with this directive, has now refrained from swift implementation for the smaller banks in america. i believe that in the transatlantic relationship, which i am a great supporter of, we must be careful not to take any different paths in economic harmonization in europe than we do on the other side of the atlantic. we are the strongest economy in the world only if we are in harmony. in conclusion, i would like to expressly endorse mr radwan's view on comitology. when many citizens in europe complain that it is not clear who actually decides what in europe, it is a good sign to say that the decisions are made politically here in the european parliament. that is why i am in favour of the sunset clause, which is to be in force for two years. we have three other directives adopted in 2007 under the lamfalussy process: the prospectus liability, the market abuse directive and the financial conglomerates directive. all three will be there. i believe that for all three we need clarity and stability for the financial markets. the european parliament can play a role here. i therefore welcome the directive as presented by mr radwan.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank the members for their very constructive comments regarding this very important piece of legislation and, as i said at the outset, i congratulate mr radwan and the shadow rapporteurs for their work and the deep, intensive and very technical work done by the committee on this very complex subject. i agree with those speakers who stressed the importance of this particular directive. what will be good for the financial institutions will be good for economic growth, employment, the economy and for increased financial stability. sometimes members of the public look at matters relating to banks and financial institutions with rather a jaundiced eye and see them as charging excessive interest and making huge profits at their expense. however, if it were not for banks and credit institutions, there would be no great economic success. therefore it is in everybody's interests – including the various actors and stakeholders – that we have a properly regulated financial sector and that risk is properly assessed. it is also important for depositors. this is the flipside of lending, since, if no one placed money in banks, there would be no money to lend. for the very same reasons, it is also important for shareholders and investors. it is also important for the employees of the financial institutions. therefore, what will be good for the banking sector will be good for us all. a recent study estimated that banks would have reduced capital requirements of about eur 80 to 120 billion as a result of the proposed directive. it is also said that this directive will reduce the capital requirements for loans to smes by more than 50%. this parliament has tabled amendments to our proposals that improve the rules for retail and sme lending still further. some speakers referred to the question of islamic mortgages. we need rules to ensure that such loans do not fall between the cracks and escape regulation altogether. mr ryan and mrs lulling raised questions about mortgage bonds or asset-covered bonds. i note that the further flexibility introduced by parliament's amendments will reduce regulatory constraints for so-called covered bonds still further and this is a good result for the markets. some other members – in particular mrs berès and mr purvis – raised the question of a level playing field for europe and the united states. firstly, i would like to point out that the small and medium-sized american banks have asked for the benefits of basle ii also to be extended to them and i understand that the united states is on the verge of making such proposals within the next month. secondly, as regards this level playing field, all the big american banks which are in direct competition with european globally-operating banks will be covered by the basle framework. i take on board, however, what mr purvis and mrs berès said, not only in this particular regard, but also in other areas relating to the united states. i know that mrs berès has taken a particularly keen interest in this matter and it is something that i bear in mind. just about every speaker referred to the general question of comitology. mr radwan can take particular pleasure and pride in having brought this issue to the forefront of the debate and in having extended it into other areas as well. as regards comitology, i note with satisfaction that the rapporteur is putting forward a helpful and constructive proposal here and i hope that, not only with this directive but in other areas as well, we can bring the matter to a successful conclusion, with the cooperation of the various actors. i am also pleased to inform you that the commission can fully support the compromise which has been reached on these amendments. the package which is now before the plenary is a fair compromise, taking into account the discussions between the council and parliament, and it will also enjoy the strong support of the banking industry. furthermore, the solutions proposed are well-balanced and respect the commission's initial intentions for this legislation.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank bert doorn, and the legal affairs committee, for the excellent work done on this dossier. efficient cooperation between the institutions should make it possible to adopt this proposal in a single reading. statutory audit is a very important subject for europe. recent scandals highlighted the need to reply to new challenges. in order to modernise statutory audit, the revised directive will clarify the duties of statutory auditors, their independence and their ethics. it will also require the application of international standards on auditing and will set the criteria for robust public oversight of the audit profession. we must have proper auditors in the eu. this benefits everyone: the companies themselves, investors and savers, both large and small. economic confidence will grow. let me just say a few words on the question of limiting auditor liability. this question has arisen during debates on this directive, although it was not in the commission’s original proposal. auditors are wary of taking on new audits because they are afraid of unlimited liability. i can see the arguments in favour of acting at eu level, as there could potentially be an impact on the internal market. i intend to work actively to see what can be done in this regard. as a first step, i intend to launch a study in the near future. the proposed amendments take account of the discussions in the council, and also enjoy strong support from the audit industry. the solutions proposed by your rapporteur are, furthermore, well balanced and respect the commission’s initial intentions with this legislation. so we strongly support the outcome. as was the case with the previous report that we discussed, comitology is once again the only outstanding issue. the situation is very similar to what was said in the context of mr radwan’s report on the capital requirements directive just a few moments ago. i refer to the statements i made in that context so i do not need to repeat myself. implementing powers are very important for the eighth company law directive. many technical issues and adaptations require the availability of comitology powers. this was also confirmed by the council when it expressed its support for the overall compromise package of amendments. the committee of permanent representatives considered that a sunset clause under which the implementing powers would be suspended could harm the effective implementation of this directive. it therefore asked parliament to consider the implications of such a sunset clause carefully. the commission shares the concerns expressed by the council. yet it also recognises parliament’s view that its role in supervising the exercise of delegated authority must be brought in line with its standing in the codecision procedure. pending an overall solution for comitology, the commission understands that parliament would wish to limit the delegated authority in time. for the commission it is essential that this period be long enough to ensure proper implementation of the directive. i understand that your rapporteur would propose a sunset clause of two years after the entry into force of the directive, but 1 april 2008 at the latest. this would not, however, apply to article 26, on international auditing standards. the commission can agree with this. this solution would correspond with the solution found in mr radwan's report on the proposed capital requirements directive. the commission also calls on the council to show flexibility, but above all to consider the revision of the 1999 comitology decision as a priority.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. i should like to begin by thanking mr doorn for his excellent work, which involved a great many committees. i believe that this report is a good compromise on this difficult question. it is a very technical piece of legislation, as can be seen by the participation of members in this house. i believe, however, that this technical legislation in particular is doing a great deal to make europe competitive, both within and outside europe. sound legislation is particularly important in this sensitive area. of course, you have to compromise. the compromise mr doorn has mentioned is the compromise on rotation. the bottom line is that the external rotation has dropped. the member states have an alternative. certain member states may also maintain the external rotation as before. i would have originally been in favour of not allowing member states to require external rotation, because i believe that it does not promote competition. i would like to concentrate on one point, because there is limited time to speak, namely the proposal by commissioner mccreevy to draw up a study on the impact of the liability ceiling on the internal market for audit firms. it is a very important location advantage for europe if we get a european liability limit. i am therefore glad that commissioner mccreevy has agreed to this study, and it must be done soon, by the end of 2006. there are a number of solutions in the member states which provide for a certain liability ceiling, such as proportional liability, ceilings or a combination of both. we in the european parliament want the commission to allow member states to decide on liability and to ensure that we arrive at a regulation in europe which is as harmonized as possible, rather than one harmonized regulation. in this sense, mr doorn has said everything i support on the subject of comitology. i thank you for your attention and hope that he will understand the directive in this way.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i hope that the auditors' directive will help to restore the trust in audits and markets that has been shaken by various scandals in recent years. this could ensure or restore investment security and increase the competitiveness of european enterprises. a comparison of the main points of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which i am the author, and the final version presented to us by the rapporteur, mr doorn, after the troika negotiations, reveals many similarities, for example, with regard to rotation, costs for small and mediumsized enterprises and liability. i welcome the proposal that the commission should present a study on liability by the end of 2006, and i expressly agree with what my colleague mr schwab has said on this point. i would have liked to have received a more positive signal on two other important points, namely the setting up of an audit committee and the provision of services outside the audit. the committee on economic and monetary affairs had expressly welcomed the commitment to set up an audit committee and supported the commission's ideas. the report by mr doorn is a step in the right direction and i thank the rapporteur for his work. the forthcoming vote is a crucial step towards the successful conclusion of the fast-track procedure. the signal for the markets will therefore soon come. i am also pleased that mr doorn has addressed the issue of comitology in his report. however, i personally expect the date for the sunset clause to be 1 january rather than 1 april 2008. however, the proposed approach to implementing necessary changes to ias or isa i.e. international standards on auditing seems to me difficult to accept. the european parliament's right of withdrawal should also be guaranteed in this respect. the report by mrs wallis, the shadow rapporteur for my group in the committee responsible, recommends that this report be adopted. i shall abstain in the vote because of the restrictions i have just mentioned.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to stress once again that fisheries policy, which is of great importance to the european union, is a classic task of reconciling economic interests and ecological needs. the european union has set itself the objective of protecting or contributing to the recovery of fish stocks, avoiding overfishing and at the same time serving the economic interests of the fisheries sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the crucial point in the agreement, which runs until 2010, is whether there will really be an ex post evaluation of this new programme and whether it will be ensured that this evaluation is then also sent to parliament in time before a new agreement is reached, before the renegotiation of another agreement. parliament insists on being seriously and timely contacted when the data from this ex post evaluation is available, and that is why i would like to have your very explicit assurance, commissioner borg, that parliament will indeed be so addressed and that it will receive this data from an ex post evaluation in good time. we are also tired of the fact that the proposals for agreements reach parliament only months after fishing has already begun. i would like to ask you again whether you are going to change this practice and whether parliament will be informed in due time.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are all aware of the situation. the directive on asylum procedures has been negotiated in the council for over four years, and the result reflects a fragile compromise between the member states of the union. i must say this with all sincerity, it is certainly a compromise that does not achieve high levels of ambition. i am well aware of the concerns expressed in the report and i share some of them, and i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done, although the difficulties we have encountered, the still not very high level of ambition of this directive, constitute, and i say this without any paradox, a good reason today for parliament to approve the report and to continue this complex procedure until the directive enters into force. i think there are good reasons, first and foremost, for adopting the report. if the directive enters into force, any subsequent proposal in this area will have to follow the qualified majority voting system, no longer unanimity, and will have to follow the co-decision procedure between the council and parliament. this means that once the first stage, approved by this directive, has been passed, we will have the possibility of a codecision vote in this parliament for the subsequent stages, which i would call substantive. i hope that we will achieve this as soon as possible, once we have adopted the directive. there are also reasons for perspective: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are also other reasons of substance which justify a vote in favour once again. the directive is certainly only a first step, but you will all remember that the tampere council decided many years ago that the european strategy on asylum would be a step by step strategy, that is to say, not the simultaneous implementation of the procedure and the substance, but a procedure by successive steps. this is a first step, i must say, but this first step will change a lot, ladies and gentlemen. today, for procedures, we have, i think it is safe to say, more than 20 different systems, i do not want to say 25, but we are close to that. there are various concerns, expressed by this parliament and the commission and also by me personally and publicly, about the need to standardise the treatment of refugees and asylum seekers. with the directive we will have a common procedure, we will have minimum european standards and we will give, i would say above all, the court of justice the power to apply and interpret - as you well know, the case law of the court of justice is often very advanced in its interpretation - and we will also give the commission the possibility of enforcing the common rules. today, these possibilities do not exist, and i think the difference is considerable. if we were to stop today, if this step-by-step approach were not to continue, some of us would certainly continue to ask for the text to be improved, but i have a duty to be honest: it is difficult, very difficult for the council to reopen a substantive debate after five years of negotiations. consequently, if the council does not act, demands will be made, there will probably be growing concerns, but that european strategy on the subject, today on procedures, tomorrow on substance and asylum legislation, would not be put into action. that is why, if we balance the advantages of a text which is not perfect with the serious dangers of a european regulatory vacuum, which worries us all the more, i very much hope that this parliament will approve the report and give a favourable opinion.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the vote we are taking today will be on nothing less than a fundamental pillar of the european union. the european union was built on the ruins of the second world war and its success is based on the lessons we have learned from the world wars, national socialism and dictatorships of the last century - especially in eastern europe. many europeans had to leave their homelands and seek refuge in foreign countries to save their lives. today, people come to europe seeking refuge from want and persecution. no one leaves home lightly. the flight is often life-threatening, and the dream is a life in safety. but this dream often ends in camps, some of which are in disastrous conditions. without adequate assessment of the individual's fate, refugees are sent back to a supposedly safe country, such as libya. is it to relieve us of all burdens and responsibilities as quickly as possible? i have the impression that fortress europe is less concerned with protecting refugees than the other way around: we want to protect ourselves from them. but how can we live up to our historic responsibility if we do not give refugees the opportunity to adequately explain their reasons? how can we credibly defend european values if we deny asylum seekers access to the rule of law? the fear of abuse of asylum, which is certainly there, must not lead us to betray our values. what we need are common european minimum standards for dealing with refugees, based on the rule of law, international conventions and international legal obligations such as the geneva convention on refugees. the council only submitted its proposal for this directive to us for consultation in november 2004, after having already taken a decision. we are firmly opposed to this kind of uncooperative cooperation. moreover, what the council has now put forward is a far cry from the objective formulated in tampere in 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of refugees are respected. we have therefore proposed the following key changes: firstly, we reject the concept of so-called super-safe third countries as set out in article 35a a world philosophical achievement and instead advocate a modification of the concept of so-called safe third countries under article 27. this concept should only be applicable - and this is important - if the third country has ratified and is in compliance with the geneva convention and other international human rights treaties, in particular the principle of non-refoulement under the geneva refugee convention. the asylum seeker should be given the opportunity to demonstrate that his safety is not guaranteed in the so-called safe third country or safe country of origin. secondly, we want to strengthen the right of asylum seekers to an effective remedy under article 38. thirdly, we are committed to strengthening the rights of the child. according to the 1989 un convention on the rights of the child, any person under 18 years of age is considered a child. we have therefore agreed, across the political groups, that all the relevant articles of the directive will be amended in accordance with the un convention on the rights of the child. fourthly, no asylum seeker should be detained until it has been demonstrated that detention is necessary and lawful and in accordance with the standards laid down in international agreements. the asylum seeker should only be detained in facilities which are clearly different from prisons. access to effective legal advice, qualified and impartial interpreters and qualified medical staff must be guaranteed. unaccompanied children should never be taken into immigration custody. in the case of persons belonging to a vulnerable group, such as victims of torture and traumatised persons, as well as persons with mental or physical disabilities, the authorities should seek alternative measures to detention. the report i have tabled, which was adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, offers the chance to create a balanced and fair first european right of asylum. the fear of islamist terrorism and the fear of crime must not be used as a pretext for a backward asylum policy. the european union is a community of values, and we must not forget that the european union is a community of values, and that the european union is a community of values, and that the european union is a community of values. this is about human rights and human lives. we can, we all can never forget that. i am very pleased that commissioner frattini has been allowed to speak. i hope that those who may have already decided to vote against this report will reconsider their position. i would ask you once again to approve my report. we also need him for the negotiations with the council in the coming years. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. (applause from the centre)
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the creation of a common european asylum law, as decided by the tampere european council in october 1999, is very welcome. however, the amended proposal of the european council contains such significant shortcomings that if this directive were to apply in its present form in the member states, refugee protection in europe would be largely eroded. among other things, the planned introduction of a minimum list of so-called safe third countries poses a serious risk that member states will reject asylum seekers whose countries of origin are considered safe third countries without hearing the reasons for the persons concerned' flight and without assessing their eligibility for asylum in each case. i therefore attach particular importance in the opinion of the committee on development which i have drawn up on the report to the full involvement of the european parliament in all future decisions concerning the minimum list. the inclusion or deletion of states considered to be safe third countries or not and, where appropriate, included in a minimum list, cannot be done by the council and the commission alone. this is also reflected in the report to be voted on, as well as in the improvement in the protection of children and minors and the rules on the obligation of member states to inform refugees of their rights and obligations in a language they can understand. the report includes some very important changes to ensure that no member state expels or returns asylum seekers to areas where their life or freedom would be threatened on the grounds of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion. i ask the members of the european parliament to vote in favour of the report. the report makes a great difference in terms of ensuring refugee protection in europe and the situation of the people concerned in the member states.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! as long as we are one of the safest regions in the world, people who are persecuted in their home countries will come to us. it's a given that we're trying to help these people. we have this humanitarian obligation not just as individual states but as the european union as a whole. in a european union with largely open internal borders, it is important to set at least a minimum standard for asylum procedures. this creates clarity on the preconditions, form and duration of asylum procedures for both asylum seekers and host countries. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism, and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the approach of the rapporteur, mr kreissl-dörfler, does not help to meet humanitarian obligations. the aim is not to take in as many people as possible, but to offer a safe haven to those who are persecuted in their own country and whose only possible refuge is europe. we must be clear that the right of asylum is also being abused. we must therefore obviously prevent unfounded petitions in order to make room for those who are really persecuted. the application of a list of safe third countries contributes to this. german practice shows that this is a reasonable and practicable arrangement. please note: the inclusion in the list of safe third countries is conditional upon the recognition and implementation of the geneva refugee convention and the recognition and implementation of the european convention on human rights. we have set ourselves this high standard. the rapporteur rejects the principle of safe third countries and safe countries of origin. for example, neither canada nor norway nor switzerland are considered safe countries for asylum seekers. i would ask you to be included in a procedure, mr president. bulgaria and romania are also rejected by my green and socialist colleagues as safe countries. but at the same time they want these countries to join the eu in a few months. a contradiction in terms! in his original report, mr kreissl-dörfler went further and said that asylum should be granted as a priority to criminals who are wanted by arrest warrants. the only way to clearly identify asylum seekers who have arrived without papers, fingerprinting, was also rejected because of possible cultural sensitivities. this would make it almost impossible to check whether a person has applied for asylum in several eu member states. mr kreissl-dörfler, i think that you would be doing a disservice to a lot of people who are seriously seeking asylum if your report were accepted today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his report, which i think can be fully endorsed. the european union has an important role model for other countries outside the european union in terms of human rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. how can we encourage other countries to respect international refugee law in the future if we are not taking it seriously within the european union itself? i am concerned that the president-in-office of the european council and british home secretary, charles clarke, at the meeting of eu justice and home affairs ministers in newcastle on 9 september, has called for a reconsideration of the european convention on human rights. clarke explicitly wants to be able to deport hate preachers and terrorists - admittedly terrible contemporaries - even if they face torture or even the death penalty in their country of origin. i think this is a clear violation of international refugee law. it is also quite clear to me and my group that the super-safe third country regime - similar to what mr kreissl-dörfler has already mentioned - is an unacceptable regime. i therefore agree with the criticism made by mr kreissl-dörfler. the council clearly needs to improve on this.
member of the commission. mr president, i am glad to have the opportunity to address here the question of the european union-united states wine agreement, which was initialled in washington on 14 september. it will be submitted to council for final approval in the coming weeks. this is only a first phase agreement. it is the result of many years of bilateral negotiations, during which the united states was granted and renewed specific authorisations on wine-making practices, certification and labelling rules, completely 'for free'. these never-ending negotiations affected the trading environment in a negative way. the united states left the international wine organisation in 2001 and created the world wine trade group. besides that, since the community revised its labelling rules in 2002 with the adoption of commission regulation (ec) no 753/2002, the united states has been one of the most critical wto members, questioning the wto-compatibility of all these rules. another example of negative trade relations was the adoption by congress in november 2004 of certification requirements for imported wines, except for countries with which the united states had a wine agreement. community exports to the united states amounted to almost eur 2 billion in 2004, which is about 40% of our wine exports. the united states only exports eur 415 million to the european union. considering, therefore, the importance of the united states market for the european union, the evolution of our trade relations over recent years and the situation in the community wine sector, it is my view that this first phase agreement is a very positive one for our wine sector. this deal will secure what is our biggest export market in terms of both value and volume. i welcome the agreement, since it will help consolidate and improve our trading relations with the united states. it may also facilitate a non-polemical and substantial dialogue with the members of the new world wine group. in addition, this first phase agreement contains some provisions that clearly benefit the community. there is now official recognition by the united states of our wine geographical indications, which will be protected under their labelling rules. there are the 17 european wine names, such as port, sherry and champagne, which are currently considered as semi-generic in the united states. we have agreed that their use will be limited in the united states and that they will change their legal status to restrict them to wines originating in the community in future. the present situation will be frozen, but there will be no further negative impact from the agreement. we cannot underestimate the fact that the explicit recognition of these names as community wines will benefit community wine-makers and traders. we will also be exempted from the 2004 united states certification requirements. not only for wines covered by the agreement, but also for wines which contain less than 7% alcohol, which was an issue of interest to many of the wine-producing member states. and let us not forget that, without the present agreement, we would have faced heavy certification requirements for our 2005 vintage. i can assure you that all these requirements would have been very costly for our export sector. i wish to highlight two other very important points. under this agreement, the united states and the european union agree to resolve bilateral issues through informal bilateral consultations, rather than through formal dispute settlement mechanisms. this is an important declaration, as it represents a peace clause and will allow further constructive discussions to be held. given that this is only a first phase agreement, it was key to have some clear perspectives for the second and more ambitious phase. we have obtained a clear commitment to start the negotiations for the second phase not later than 90 days after the entry into force of the first phase. the united states ultimately agreed to spell out more clearly in a joint declaration the issues that should be part of these second phase negotiations. these include important issues for us, such as the future of the 'ex' semi-generics, geographical indications, the use of traditional expressions, wines not covered by the agreement, wine-making practices, certification and the creation of a joint committee. lastly, i have heard some criticism to the effect that the commission has granted the united states mutual recognition of its wine-making practices. this is not at all the case. we will continue to accept united states wine-making practices currently covered by community authorisations. we will also accept existing united states wine-making practices not covered by the present community derogations. however, it will only be possible for the united states to export those wines after the status of the 17 semi-generic united states names has been changed. new wine-making practices will be analysed and only accepted in the community if no objections are raised. this is not mutual recognition. because the united states is our most important trade partner in the wine sector, i consider this first phase agreement a very important one for european wine-makers and exporters.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i thank you very much, commissioner, for your explanation of the question. i would also like to state our views, of which there are two, bluntly. the fact is that the concessions made by the commission in the eu-us wine trade agreement are more than brazen and unacceptable. as a member of parliament from one of the oldest wine regions in germany, i also speak for the mosel wine growers. of course we need a trade agreement with clear rules - you have stressed this - and the negotiations are taking far too long. but we need a deal with fair terms for both sides. what has been put on paper here with long, undefined deadlines and, above all, the granting of full mutual recognition of oenological processes in winemaking is a blow to all the efforts of the european union and the member states in the field of wine law. commissioner, you said it had to be renegotiated. but we've been negotiating for so long, and i ask the question: why are we postponing such important decisions? we have clearly defined conditions for the production and processing of wine in europe. the water in wine is unimaginable to us and unreasonable to the consumer. so now we're supposed to accept that america can put 7% water in wine? modern methods of breaking down the wine into its individual components are now feasible. we are supposed to accept it in the framework of mutual recognition, then re-assemble it arbitrarily industrially? we don't need fake wine! wine is diversity, it is nature, which is manifested in diversity and which is shaped by weather and vintage. is the commission aware of the implications of such a concession for other agreements needed for the wto negotiations? the wto's most-favoured-nation principle means that similar concessions must be made in other countries at a later stage. the efforts of the international institute of wine to find a globally valid definition of wine are being led here ad absurdum. commissioner, you are talking about another organisation. the united states has withdrawn from the oiv. so, what, the oiv just sort of burst? on the other hand, our concern for the necessary protection of geographical indications of origin is simply postponed to saint nimmerlein day without a date being fixed. champagne comes from champagne, rhine wine comes from the rhine and moselle wine comes from the moselle and not from anywhere in america. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i cannot even consider freezing the current situation. i ask the commission: where is the success of the negotiations in this agreement? i think that only - and in any case too many - concessions are being made here. i feel - and i speak for the many wine-growing families who are currently harvesting their crops in their vineyards - that we are being bargained with and sold.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. first of all, i would like to congratulate you on your success in achieving this interim result in the negotiations with the united states. this is an important trade project, since the volume of trade is at least 2.3 billion euros. but it is a trade between two different systems, i.e. production and marketing are different, and therefore cooperation is not easy. the agreement can therefore only be regarded as a first step, a first phase agreement. fortunately, they did. we have accepted many exceptions from the americans in the past. it was necessary for trade. it is important that our labelling rules are applied. it is also important for us that the united states is prepared to resolve all bilateral issues through consultations rather than through wto dispute settlement. the first priority for us europeans is certainly that geographical indications of origin should receive the protection they deserve in the united states. in return, we are prepared to accept temporarily the united states' wine-making practices. this is a toad we have to swallow. this is a temporary problem which is being reduced by labelling rules, which will give the consumer, who will hopefully be an adult, more freedom. however, in the second phase of the negotiations, the commission must also work towards better protection of intellectual property in the wine sector. this is the area where we europeans have a leading role in taking over the world, where we have set global standards. that is why we should not relax on this point. we also encourage the commission to work towards a wto-wide register of geographical indications. this is also a subject which has been raised by both previous speakers. the bottom line is this deal is not brilliant. but it is an important first step, and you, commissioner, have taken the right one. the second step must now be taken in line with the reform of the wine market regulation which we are all looking forward to. we can be proud of our european wine. it is a wine that is appreciated and enjoyed worldwide. the advantage we have in the world of wine production should be maintained by an even better protection of intellectual property. we wish you every success in these steps, commissioner.
ladies and gentlemen, i would ask the honourable members in the stands, who are very welcome and who are naturally expected to feel the vibrancy of the debate, to understand that, as in all parliaments in the world, the audience in the stands is asked not to clap. only members of parliament are allowed to applaud. you can nod your head real loud. it just can't be heard. thank you for your understanding, dear visitors up in the grandstands, and welcome!
before i ask the commissioner, let me make a personal remark: i have been in this house for a long time and have rarely seen such an interesting and engaged debate, but for me this is also an example of europeanization and globalisation. when we spoke of 'ours' a few years ago, we all meant our own nation, and yet we had exactly the same problems: mutual recognition, designation of origin, certification, labelling. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the american professor jeremy rifkin is quite right when he says that for these experiences, which we have made with great effort in europe and which are now practically necessary once again worldwide, the europeans are best equipped because they have already had experience with these problems and know how to deal with them. we are all anxious to see how you will solve the wine problem. each of us - including the audience - knows how important wine is to its own winegrowers. how do we solve these problems, commissioner?
member of the commission. mr president, i am very encouraged by all the contributions made on this very important issue. as i mentioned in my statement, i welcome the conclusion of the first phase agreement on trade in wine between the european community and the united states. i welcome the conclusion of this agreement on trade between the european community – which, as many of you have mentioned, is the birthplace of wine – and one of the leading countries in the new world wine trade group. i am convinced this development is positive not only for the community and the united states, but also for the world at large. i am also convinced that the conclusion of this first phase agreement will pave the way for further discussions and cooperation with the united states in the wine sector, which is in the clear interest of the community, and in particular its wine sector. at the same time, i have taken note of all your remarks, which i will not underestimate. the negotiations for the second phase, which as i mentioned previously will begin within 90 days of the entry into force of the agreement, will allow us to act on many of the remarks made today. however, i also believe that most of your remarks go far beyond the conclusion of this first phase agreement and in a sense confirm that it is the right moment to start the analysis and discussions on reform of the wine sector. i should now like to reply to some specific questions. some of you seem to be of the opinion that this agreement is unbalanced and skewed in favour of united states stakeholders. considering the economic pattern of the ec-us wine trade and the political and legal background, this first-phase agreement is not unbalanced. it improves our relations with our leading customer considerably and establishes a good basis for future discussions and negotiations. besides, several provisions of key interest to the united states, such as the approval of their existing wine-making practices not covered by current community authorisations and much simplified certification requirements, will only kick in once the united states has notified the community it has changed the status of the 17 famous european wine names that are semi-generics in the us. there is the question of the protection afforded to european wine names being insufficient. the protection under this agreement is afforded through us labelling rules and guarantees that european wine names will only be used for european wines, notwithstanding a grandfathering clause on existing brand names. in addition, this agreement is without prejudice to our rights under trips and does not affect our legislative framework for gis. on the most-favoured nation risks mentioned by several of you, i can state that the commission's aim in these negotiations and those with other new wine-producing countries, is to improve the dialogue between us and our negotiating partners and avoid the trade conflicts and wto panels that would be extremely costly for european producers. the most favoured nation clause is well-known with regard to tariffs, but the situation is completely different when it comes to its application in relation to procedures for recognising wine-making practices. in order for the same concessions to be granted to another third country, that third country would have to be in a similar situation as regards acceptable wine-making practices and monitoring of those practices and of the wine. however, the united states system of administration for wine labels is unique. it is not used in other third countries and the most favoured nation risk therefore seems to be very small. that is an important point. as regards the possibility of adding water, let me recall that this is permitted today in the european union for reasons of technical necessity. we have no defined limits for the addition of water to wine, but, for example, a limit of 7% has been defined in respect of adding water to concentrated grapes, as it is impossible to detect the addition of water below that threshold. but make no mistake, we will not accept any undermining of the quality of eu products. on the question of mutual recognition, as i said in my introductory statement this agreement does not grant the united states mutual recognition of its wine-making practices. this was one of the key us objectives, just as the phasing-out of semi-generics was for us. however, since the us did not agree to phase out the use of the 17 eu semi-generic wine names used in the us, we did not agree to grant them mutual recognition of their wine-making practices. as i said, we will only maintain the existing community authorisations on united states wine-making practices. we will accept the other existing us wine-making practices only when the united states has changed the status of our semi-generics. that link has to be taken into consideration. we will have the possibility, for new wine-making practices, to raise objections and hence not to accept new us wine-making practices. we will not simply accept all the practices used by the united states. however, various myths seem to abound. to take the example of oak chips, which have often been referred to, such chips are already permitted in the european union on an experimental basis. clearly, however, under the agreement, a wine will have to be aged in oak barrels before the term 'barrel-aged' could be used on the label. that goes without saying. finally, it is very important that discussions be opened on the reform of the common market organisation in wine. the impact assessment work has already started and consists amongst other things of an economic analysis of the sector, which should be completed by the end of the year. later, the impact assessment report will cover several options and the effects of those options. the commission will involve all stakeholders within the sector in a public debate that will hopefully be held in february, before presenting a proposal. the commission communication could be submitted by june next year, with a commission legislative proposal being presented before the end of next year. i should inform mr freitas that both madeira and port are on the list of the 17 wine names considered as semi-generic, and that the use of those names will therefore be restricted. he can be quite sure about that. finally, the whole issue of geographical indications is of huge importance to the community and i have constantly made this clear to our trading partners in the wto negotiations. our intention has been to obtain a multilateral register, the extension of the existing higher level of protection afforded to wines and spirits to other products, and a clawing-back of certain names, the use of which has been abused world-wide. some of our trading partners even consider that gis are not an issue for negotiation. something on gis must come out of our final discussions in hong kong. it is such a vital issue for the agricultural sector.
we all hope that you will succeed in promoting the interests of europeans at this point. at the end of this debate i received six motions for resolutions (see minutes) tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 29 september, at 12 noon. we now adjourn the sitting until the vote has begun. for those of you who may be wondering why we are a little earlier, we have discussed in the bureau that we want to avoid the council of ministers or the commission having to go into a bit of a mess at 12 o'clock, 12:05 or 12:10 every time when all the members are pouring in to vote. we have therefore agreed to try to end the debate at 11.50 a.m. so that we can discuss it in peace. this is why we have a little more time than usual now. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i just want to explain mr. geremek 's comment . the reason is simple: the cypriot constitution provides for the waiver of the immunity of national parliamentarians in a way that is not provided for in the constitutions of other member states. in cyprus, the supreme court has the power to annul the law, not parliament. but since mr matsakis is a member of the european parliament, it is clear that under the protocol on privileges and immunities, the supreme court of cyprus is not responsible for the annulment, but this house, this very house. for this reason, the legal affairs committee, with one vote against, was of the opinion that we should table this proposal as it stands. i ask you to follow this.
in writing. i expressly welcome the outcome of the vote on the correction of directive 2004/18/ec of 31 march 2004 on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts. the correction of the factual error in adjusting the thresholds for the award of public contracts was necessary. i would like to point out, however, that i still see the need for improvement in some of the substantive provisions of the directive. this applies in particular to inter-municipal cooperation and the creation of special-purpose associations of municipalities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new energy policy. i therefore see the urgent need to revise the directive in this area in early 2006 in a way that is practical. i am pleased that the committee (imco) has already decided to hold a hearing of the parties concerned.
in writing. the kreissl-dörfler report, which was adopted by a narrow majority in the european parliament today, reflects the misery of eu asylum and migration policy. in response to the council's draft directive, which is characterised by the exclusionist spirit towards refugees, the report notes serious shortcomings:- it adopts the concept of the safe country of origin, so that asylumseekers will be denied the right to obtain any examination of their application; - the text does not distinguish between the treatment of asylumseekers and 'illegals', even with regard to detention in 'return centres'; - it lays down the principle of safe third countries, the criteria and the list of countries, so that, for example, chain deportations of refugees cannot be prevented. although this will fix the deprivation of refugees, i shall abstain because the report contains at least some minor improvements for refugees compared to the council document. the dilemma of eu policy remains. their fortress policy is endangering the lives of more and more people. it is also a policy that robs people of their rights. a humane eu asylum policy is different.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. i refer mainly to mr guellec's report in my remarks, but i would like to point out to mr marques that i also include the outermost regions in the term 'territorial cohesion'. i would like to thank you very much, mr guellec, for a really good report. as an own-initiative report, i see it as a good means of giving our own emphasis as a committee of the european parliament. the report was produced in a balanced but forward-looking way, thanks to good teamwork. if it is our common desire - and i hope that you, commissioner, will succeed in this endeavour to involve the member states - to introduce europe into the daily lives of the local people, then, of course, in addition to social and economic cohesion, territorial cohesion is of enormous importance. it will help to ensure that fair and equal assessment and treatment of all eu citizens, regardless of the region in which they live, is a principle and is reflected in all our important documents, such as those on the structural and cohesion funds, but also in the implementation of the lisbon/gothenburg strategy. we are doing well to give priority to the principle of partnership: partnership between cities, their surroundings and rural areas, but also partnership between all political levels. i believe that this is a fundamental prerequisite for coherent and harmonious development in all the eu countries, regions and cities. i would like to expressly support the approach of not using gdp alone as a basis for assessing the level of development of a region. other territorial indicators such as education, science, culture and sport, but also the level of unemployment or the development of infrastructure, should be included, because only in their summary form do they allow a much clearer picture of the region. this is an important step towards a fairer assessment. this can ultimately help people on the ground to understand europe and the rules we are adopting better, and i feel that we still need to communicate much better with our european citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i think the services know about it. i do not need the full three minutes of mr galeote, but i would like to take some of them. i am of course very different, mr president, from my predecessor, mrs commissioner, on the excellent own-initiative report by mr guellec, because it rightly emphasizes that territorial cohesion is one of the union's strategic objectives in promoting the harmonious and balanced development of the entire community. mr guellec, you are right, the union is very different from a free trade area and it must be so! with the enlargement to the east, the challenge of cohesion has taken on a new and important dimension, as the eu has never before been confronted with such a sharp increase in imbalances. the new enlarged eu is characterised by a great geographical and cultural diversity, which distinguishes it from comparable large economies such as the usa, japan or mercosur. but this diversity is also an important factor for growth in the eu. it is important to preserve it as european integration progresses. policies affecting the spatial and urban structure of the eu must therefore promote the territorial continuity of the union without, however - and i would like to stress this - unifying local and regional identities, which are essential to enriching the quality of life of all citizens. to put it more clearly, the newly emerging territory does not abolish national, regional and local areas, on the contrary: spatial planning at european level aims to optimise each particular feature as a source of growth. you are right, the eu does not yet have competence in the spatial planning area. the treaties do not provide for this, although it is a sensitive matter for the states. i am convinced that the reduction in the number of objectives will bring greater coherence to the new regional cohesion policy in the coming planning period. the new regional cohesion policy, with a reduction in the number of objectives, must and will find a new impetus in the next programming period to meet the challenges ahead, so that the objective of territorial cohesion also becomes a reality, if necessary, also independently of the budgetary resources allocated to regional and cohesion policy, which we still hope will be allocated to a degree that will also allow us to fulfil the tasks. to this end, the community's strategic guidelines on cohesion must be taken into account, while taking account of the specific features of the territory. however, i am a little skeptical in this context of the rapporteur's suggestions that new territorial criteria and indicators should be created alongside gdp to measure the development of a region and the obstacles to it. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is true that economic, social and territorial cohesion requires a link between the regional, national and european levels and the various community policies. however, the regions will remain the appropriate territorial level for the implementation of cohesion policy, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and decentralisation. in this sense, parliament has rightly supported, together with the commission, a clear decentralisation and concentration on the principle of 'one fund per programme'. i am therefore optimistic about the next planning period.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the outermost regions need our support, of course. the marques report contains many good proposals, such as strengthening the infrastructure of remote islands or mountainous regions. this type of structural policy is also an expression of european solidarity and equal opportunities. what i particularly like about this report is that it is now balanced. there are no more exaggerated demands. the rapporteur's approach is based on the parliament's previous approach to structural policy. that's what makes him credible. despite this consistency and the legitimate demands for the next period, i see a danger. it is foreseeable that we will have much less money available for structural policy in the future. i therefore believe that structural policy, as it is today, will have outlived its usefulness in a few years. we will have to look for new concepts for how to continue european regional aid with less money, whether through a policy of loan support, a policy of guarantees or a policy that relies more on key infrastructures and core projects. the question of where the investments we support actually lead to further investments and whether we might create ever greater demand for support through the investments we support in remote areas must be given greater prominence in future. we must move towards a policy which is more concerned with european competitiveness as a whole. i welcome the marques report as a first step towards a realistic approach. we must, however, move even further away from the perpetual subsidies of the watering-pot principle and towards self-sustaining economic growth. to do this, the eu needs further impetus, including from regional policy.
member of the commission. mr president, that was an excellent debate on both reports and one to which i have listened carefully. with regard to mr guellec's report, i have taken note of the strong support in this house for the recommendations it puts forward: to consider territorial cohesion as a major element in the lisbon and gothenburg strategies; to give a boost to all dimensions of territorial cooperation; and to place greater emphasis on cooperation between urban centres, suburban areas and the countryside, particularly those with specific disadvantages, so as to contribute to the development of sustainable communities. i am very pleased that we share many ideas. let me respond to those few ideas on which i think we might have difficulty in finding a solution. first, with regard to the adoption of new territorial indicators, alongside gdp, to measure the development of regions and evaluate obstacles, i would remind you that there are no standardised and generally-accepted indicators in the field of territorial cohesion and, as you know, any new indicator needs to be accepted by eurostat. there are currently only a small number of indicators available at regional level that have been harmonized: gdp, employment, unemployment and population data. secondly, i agree that more work needs to be done in this area, but we must be realistic at this stage. on the issue of establishing a system for assessing the impact of the various community policies on territorial cohesion within the union, it is true that current impact assessment does not take into account territorial cohesion issues. i agree that this question deserves further examination. i have taken note of your proposal to develop such a system through espon and i will ask my services to analyse this. we will also discuss it with the member states, which, as you know, cofinance this programme. on your suggestion that a white paper on territorial cohesion be drawn up by 2007, indicating in particular how this objective is to be incorporated in the national strategic plan of each member state, you may remember that i raised the possibility of preparing a white paper in order to promote territorial cohesion on the european agenda in the perspective of a ratified constitution. that was done in luxembourg in may. i would like to remind you that in the strategic guidelines we asked member states to pay particular attention to territorial issues when preparing their national development plans. these are already being drawn up and so, while i agree strongly with the added value that the white paper would bring, we cannot wait for it in order to incorporate this dimension into the national strategic plans. on mr margues' report, i have also noted a number of concerns and recommendations and i would like to respond to as many of them as i can in the time available to me. concerning the wider neighbourhood action plan, i fully agree that we have to strengthen the economic, social and cultural links between the outermost regions and their non-member neighbours. we have to take this forward on two fronts: first, trade and customs measures that would allow for the integration of markets in goods and services, as well as in trade-related fields; and second, the preferential agreements with non-member countries. this mainly concerns the acp countries through the european partnership agreements. these new agreements are to enter into effect as of january 2008. we are currently in the process of negotiations, but we are also examining the needs and interests of those regions, together with the member states concerned. i share your view that economic integration needs to be supported by exchanges of a social and cultural nature and cooperation in fields such as new technologies, health measures, combating illegal immigration and measures on the environment and risk prevention. i can also tell you that my services are currently exploring ways in which the community financial instruments – not only the erdf, but also the european development fund – can be used to strengthen the wider neighbourhood policy. with regard to agriculture and fishing, some of your recommendations are already part of our legislative proposals, as some of you must know. on the reform of the organisation of the sugar market, the commission's proposal takes account of the specific problems of the outermost regions. the commission is convinced that the sugar sector in the outermost regions is expanding, also in the context of its contribution to energy security. on the new agricultural fund, here, as you know, we have proposed maximum co-financing rates that are higher for the outermost regions, while the intervention areas have also been extended. on bananas, you know how difficult the negotiations are for us, but i can assure you that the commission will do its best to protect the interests of community producers. on fisheries, at the council meeting of 21 june, the commission declared that specific treatment was needed for this sector in the outermost regions. we have launched a study into this and will carefully examine the issue. on competitiveness, your recommendations concerning the competitiveness of regions and the attention to be devoted to the development of human capital constitute the centrepiece of the draft community strategic guidelines for the next generation of cohesion programmes. in the area of research, we have introduced specific measures for the outermost regions in the draft seventh framework programme. with regard to state aid, the latest proposal for the rules on national regional aid contains a number of positive measures in favour of the outermost regions. those regions will be considered within the scope of article 87(3)(a). they will also benefit from increased aid ceilings and will be able to authorise operating aid. my door is always open to those who need further detailed information. i believe that, at a time when so many proposals affect the situation of the outermost regions or regions in general, constant cooperation and communication are a must for all of us.
vice-president of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the commission adopted a communication at 3.30 p.m. this afternoon as part of its policy on better regulation, which was then sent to the european parliament and the council. the commission has carried out a comprehensive and systematic review of all legislative proposals submitted by it before 1 january 2004 and not yet adopted, and is announcing the results today. let me just say this for the record: the commission has not taken any decision on this matter, and in most cases it has been wrong. today's communication is a first and comparatively small step towards the realisation of the much larger and more ambitious project 'better regulation in europe'. we have two objectives with this project: the commission's aim is to strengthen citizens' confidence in european integration and to counter the impression that the european union is a regulatory-mad, bureaucratic monster. at the same time, we want to unlock growth forces in the economy that are held back by too many or too complicated regulations. we must not underestimate the dangerous effect of a perception which brussels wants to see only as a gigantic and not very transparent bureaucracy. and here we are all called upon - the commission, parliament and council - to prove by concrete deeds that europe is not like that. but better regulation is also an essential part of the growth and jobs initiative. the brussels commission has made greater growth and employment the top priority of its work. it has revised the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs in this spirit, highlighting the policy areas that can make a decisive contribution to strengthening growth and creating our jobs. better regulation is one of these key policy areas. i know from my many, many conversations with representatives of european business that it is, in fact, the most important thing for many of them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. only if we succeed in eliminating red tape, in abolishing regulations which have become pointless and in providing industry and service providers with a modern and predictable legal framework in the long term will we secure europe as a location and improve its chances in global competition. ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: this is not some ideologically charged deregulation. it's about better regulation. the internal market needs a clear and predictable legal framework. however, we must ensure that our societies are not burdened with unnecessary red tape and that our citizens have the certainty that european law is prepared with the greatest possible care and only takes action where european rules are absolutely necessary. the institutions are in agreement on this. i repeat, we are all in the same boat and share the same responsibility. this is the political context in which the commission's communication on the review of pending legislative proposals is situated. it is, as it were, the appetizer on a menu that has yet to include the main course. but i hope the appetizer is mouth-watering, too. this policy is part of a larger strategy based on three pillars. first, the commission regularly, comprehensively and systematically reviews legislative proposals which it has submitted but which have not been adopted by the legislator after a certain period. the aim is to decide whether to withdraw the proposals or whether other measures can facilitate decision-making. this year, the commission has now reviewed all the remaining rules before the deadline of 1 january 2004. it has examined whether proposals have become obsolete, whether they have been blocked in the legislative process for a long time, whether new scientific evidence, market developments or other reasons warrant review, or whether proposals still meet current standards of impact assessment and competitiveness. as a result, the commission intends to withdraw 68 proposals out of 183 that have been examined, because they do not comply with the objectives of the strategy for growth and employment and the criteria for better regulation, or because they are simply out of date for purely objective reasons, or because we cannot expect any further progress in the legislative process for proposals in their current form. the commission recommends that the legislative process continue for five of the proposals identified in the communication. the commission would, however, like to provide in-depth economic analyses in advance to facilitate the decision-making process of the legislators. i would also point out that in some cases proposals are withdrawn as part of a comprehensive review of community policies. the commission reserves the right to submit revised proposals with a comprehensive impact assessment following this review. i would point out that in accordance with the commitments of the framework agreement on relations between parliament and the commission, the commission is announcing to parliament and the council this afternoon the proposals it intends to withdraw. the proposals selected will not be considered as formally withdrawn until they have been published in the official journal. the first part of the commission's strategy, which is the subject of today's communication, therefore deals with pending legislative proposals. this has no direct effect on economic activity, since the existing rules remain completely unaffected. in assessing the outcome, i think three things are important: the number of pending legislative proposals was much lower than many had expected. in two thirds of all cases, the review concluded that the proposals should be maintained for good reasons, and only one third of the proposals no longer meet our requirements for better regulation. this screening is the first test case for the credibility of our policy of better regulation and will become a test case for how the actual project to which i am now coming can be designed. the real project is called simplification of the existing legal framework. it is the largest project under the better regulation policy. as requested by the european parliament in its resolution on the renewed lisbon strategy of this spring, the commission will now systematically review the entire body of european union law. i'm talking about more than 20,000 legal acts. the commission will decide at the end of october on the principles and criteria for this and on how to tackle this mammoth task in an organisational way. one thing is certain: this herculean task will require the close cooperation of all three institutions, and the commission will inform parliament immediately of the procedure and methodology once it has taken a decision. the third pillar concerns standards for future legislation and impact assessment. the commission is committed to making substantial improvements to the legislation in the future and to subjecting it to strict standards. the commission has already decided that all legislative proposals, white papers and key policy communications in its work programme will only be submitted with a comprehensive impact assessment. it has recently issued detailed guidelines for the methodology to be used and will have an external analysis of all submitted impact assessments carried out next year. the commission is also working to improve the analysis and scientific knowledge provided for impact assessments through a network of external experts. it considers the new criteria for future legislation to be a decisive marker for the future. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. some member states are already achieving remarkable successes with such policies. they relieve the economy and the administration of unnecessary costs and thus generate measurable gains in growth. we want to achieve this for the whole of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have to talk about this a lot. the commission will fully respect parliament's responsibility. but it is also necessary that the member states should join this policy. i very much hope that this debate sends a clear signal that europe is serious this time. we all want better laws and less bureaucracy. what i can say now is that we will go far beyond the project already under way of codifying scattered acts. we will also examine whether regulations are still needed or whether they need to be made more user-friendly, i.e. modified. one criterion - and only one - will be the question of european competitiveness. to be clear, this is not about weakening the level of integration achieved or changing the balance between the three major policy objectives of growth, social cohesion and sustainable development. better regulation is not a trojan horse to weaken europe, but on the contrary to make europe stronger and more efficient.
the commission has already done so. i'd like to apologize for having to leave for the next session. but i would like to mention two points which i consider important for better legislation. i do not want to go into the procedure for involving the press. it's a real, bold first step in the right direction. we must support him and encourage the commission to come to the 'main street'. this is the decisive point for us! i would like to make two points: the first concerns the mediumsized enterprises, which you mentioned. i can only hope that, particularly as regards better regulation, smes will be included in these external groups of experts which will be consulted. the industry can swallow and accept one or another aspect of the regulation, but the local smes, the local craft industry, may not be able to cope with it and go broke. i would therefore urge, and appeal, that due consideration should also be given to smes in these external groups. the second point is this: the national states are regularly criticised for over-regulation. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market.
i have to say, madam president, bureaucracy is of course a catchword, commissioner verheugen, and that certainly earns you applause. but if you look at the way your list looks, you can see that it's covering up the fact that it's really about social cuts. if it is true that you are withdrawing the temporary agency directive, then that is a blow to the face of social europe, that is to say the working poor in europe, because then that means that the bolkestein directive takes over that part, and that minimum standards in europe are being reduced. my question is: how do you want to build a social europe if you want to reduce minimum social standards in europe?
vice-president of the commission. i have to say, madam president, the first question is: we have launched a public consultation and the results of this public consultation can of course be made available to you. i have to disagree with you. what you said is an understatement. it is not possible to reduce anything by withdrawing proposals which have not been adopted at all. it is not possible that this will change anything in the legal reality. i am talking about proposals which have not even been adopted by the european parliament. in each case the commission gives a precise reason for doing so. i have explicitly added that it does not mean that we will not be returning to the european parliament with the issues. as regards temporary workers, we suggest that parliament should not conclude its discussions until the commission has submitted extensive additional economic analyses and a comprehensive impact assessment. the proposal has not been withdrawn. i don't know where you got this information. you don't have to believe everything you read in the papers. i would rather be grateful if we could base our discussions on what the commission officially communicates to you as its proposal. it is not what is in the newspapers that counts, but what the commission decided this afternoon. i didn't mean to be solemn, either, mr. congressman. i only mentioned the time because i wanted to show you that the european parliament was informed immediately after the commission's decision and no one else.
the debate on this point is closed.
the next item is question time (b6-0331/2005). we are dealing with a number of questions to the commission. part two
question no 39 by mr albert jan maat (h-0735/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: introduction of transmissible animal diseases into the eu the situation of transmissible animal diseases in the world is currently very worrying. the fao recently warned that avian influenza is likely to spread to the middle east and europe via migratory birds. the icc has recently reached russia via china and central asia. what measures is the commission taking to prevent these contagious animal diseases from entering the eu? what geographical region is the focus of these control measures? what role does vaccination play? how are the european people informed, for example, about the ban on the import of foodstuffs from third countries in travel baggage?
the commission's vice-president mr kyprianou was delayed by a meeting on this specific problem and asked me to take his place, which i gladly did. i would like to reiterate on behalf of the commission our commitment to inform the european parliament systematically and in full transparency on the question of the penetration of contagious animal diseases into europe. mr kyprianou, commissioner for public health and consumer protection, kept parliament informed of the latest developments and the measures taken by the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health situation in the community is not affected by the introduction of the new rules. the commissioner had already sent the honourable member written information on the actions taken by the commission to control these threats. the discovery of outbreaks of avian influenza and foot-and-mouth disease in asia has naturally raised fears of the arrival of these diseases in the european union. all the legal measures necessary to prevent the possible introduction of these diseases via animals and products of animal origin are already in place. this includes the obligation to inform passengers who frequent international ports and airports and their duties in this regard. the commission shall use its regulatory powers to ensure the continuous updating of existing provisions. it was recommended that member states should strengthen the application of existing measures and controls at the union's borders to ensure that only animals and products which meet community requirements are imported. as regards vaccination, emergency vaccination is already possible in the event of outbreaks of avian influenza. the commission has proposed a new directive on this avian influenza. this proposal will make it possible to adopt an approach to vaccination which will take account of the latest scientific developments in the knowledge of the disease and of the latest epidemics. of course, it must be remembered that vaccination alone cannot guarantee adequate prevention and control of the disease. similar provisions are already in place for foot-and-mouth disease. these are the answers i wanted to give on behalf of mr kyprianou, madam president.
the commission's vice-president i didn't say the vaccination wasn't helpful. i am simply saying and i have even made it clear that emergency vaccination is already possible in the event of outbreaks of avian influenza. we know, of course, that vaccination is a means of prevention, but that is not enough and that at the same time a whole series of provisions must be drawn up which the draft directive is intended to specify. that is why i think, mr president, that there is no hesitation on the part of the commission in regard to vaccination. we hope to develop this vaccination taking into account all the scientific data that will help us to understand the disease better, but the commission intends to have a wider system than just vaccination to prevent the introduction of this disease into europe.
question no 40 by catherine stihler (h-0705/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: compensation for air passengers i was recently informed by some citizens from my constituency of difficulties encountered on a holiday charter flight operated by my travel airways from canaria to glasgow. despite a delay of 15 hours and considerable inconvenience, the passengers received no compensation from the charter airline. the persons concerned were among a group of 49 passengers who were denied boarding following the hospitalization of a crew member due to airline regulations regarding the minimum number of crew members. the citizens of my constituency were seeking compensation on the basis of the latest eu legislation on non-promotion. however, my travel claimed that the new rules would not apply as unforeseeable circumstances were the reason for the delay. are holiday charter flights subject to eu legislation on compensation for air passengers? does this eu legislation consider that there are unforeseeable circumstances when there are not enough crew members available?
the commission's vice-president madam president, this is a regulation. therefore, there is no transposition to be envisaged. if you can inform me by letter of the member state in question, i will try to ascertain whether the member state has set up an office to monitor the application of the provisions in question.
question no 41 by mr athanasios pafilis (h-0756/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: serious problems in the field of aviation safetythe summer aviation accident is causing increased concern, particularly among those working in this field and among passengers. the lack of controls, which is largely due - as the staff themselves criticise - to the liberalisation of markets and increased competition, to the breach of safety rules in order to make the greatest possible profit immediately, and to the large number of airlines that appear and disappear on the market without offering the necessary safety guarantees, make air transport, which should be a community service, an enterprise oriented exclusively towards profit. does the commission not agree that the common air transport market and the unbridled pursuit of profit have contributed to the reduction of controls? will it take measures to ensure effective security controls on all flights, in particular taking into account the suggestions of airline staff (for example, pre-flight control by a specially qualified mechanic)?
the commission's vice-president i would like to remind you that the blacklist in question, which i hope will be published in early 2006, results in a ban on one airline operating throughout the european union. it is a very strict measure, and it will probably have a very deterrent effect, because a company which does not meet the safety standards will actually know that it is in danger of being placed on a blacklist, that is to say, banned from flying anywhere in the european union. recent events have shown that, until now, there have been bans issued by national civil aviation authorities which were not applicable throughout the european union. of course, this was not very reassuring to the europeans. but with this step we are about to take, i hope once again, at the beginning of 2006, we will have the guarantee that a company which is not serious will be blacklisted and will suffer all the disadvantages of being banned from flying over the european union.
question no 42 by mr papadimoulis (h-0669/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: completion of the greek national cadastrethe commission's reply to my question (e-2710/04) on the national cadastre states that the greek government's proposal 'does not include the legal confirmation of the active property rights (title) ' and that the commission 'does not envisage any further financial contribution to the cadastre project'. in fact, the proposal calls for the financing of an intermediate product rather than a final product, which means that there can be no guarantee that the actual objective will be achieved. how is it ensured that even this minimal funding will lead to the creation of the national cadastre? how can the extremely low community contribution and the content of the funded measure to create a digitized database of active property titles be justified and reconciled with the understandable demand for a finished result?
member of the commission. i am planning to go to greece on or around 20 october, when the commission will certainly look into any potential irregularities, with the authorities. i have not been informed of any irregularities with regard to this project, but the matter will certainly be investigated, just to be on the safe side.
question no 43 by mr karatzaferis (h-0682/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: admission by the greek authorities that the 2005 budgetary targets cannot be metaccording to greek press publications, there is a letter from the ministry of economy to the relevant directorate-general of the commission in which the greek authorities admit that they will miss the budgetary targets for 2005 by at least eur 1 billion (!) and that the budgetary targets of eur 5 billion cannot be reached. does this letter exist? what else is in this letter? who signed it and what explanation does it give for the failure (foreseen by the greek authorities themselves) to achieve the stated objective?
member of the commission. i am not sure whether i heard all the questions, but normally if we receive the project proposals by the end of october we should safely be able to allocate the funds towards the end of the year. therefore, there is still some time to go, which is why i am saying that it is too early to judge today which – if any – funds would probably not be taken up, especially since it is always possible that there may be an excellent project that will consume the rest of the 2003 allocations before the end of this year. let me tell you that there is certainly no lack of willingness to cooperate with the commission. as you may remember, in the first half of the year we managed to resolve an enormously difficult problem. we managed to find a solution, we managed to finalise negotiations that were extremely difficult and painful for both sides. however, the commitment on both sides was strong enough to resolve the problem, which was of a historical nature. today we are working more on a current basis, but all the necessary efforts are being made on both sides and that makes me feel optimistic that we will resolve this problem. i cannot make any commitments on behalf of the greek government, however; i can only offer the help that we are offering.
question no 44 by mr czarnecki (h-0710/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: regional policy - aid is it true that the commission is forced to reduce the budget for some instruments to support the new member states compared to the previous plans because the budget available for the period 2007-2013 is less than originally planned? if so, what instruments are they?
member of the commission. it is no secret that this policy needs time to be launched. we estimate that from the moment the decision on the budget is made we will need about 18 months to launch the new generation of cohesion programmes and projects. looking at it from this point of view, now is really the last moment for the decision to be made on the budget, as we are already short of time. that is absolutely clear. the problem is that once the decision is made and we complete all the other necessary procedures, then we have to negotiate the programmes – the national framework and the operational programmes – and then the member states have to prepare themselves for the launch of the programmes and projects. if we start the projects in january 2007 – which is now quite unlikely – then there is less time to absorb the money, so the amount of money will just depend on the decision, whenever it is made. the decision will give the money, but how much time we will have to absorb the money is the worrying factor. if the perspective is shortened because of the delayed decision on the financial perspective, then the member states and regions – old and new – will have less time and there is a risk that some money will be lost. it is in the case of this policy that the risk is highest.
questions nos 45 and 46 will be answered in writing. for questions not dealt with, see the annex 'question time'.
question no 47 by mr jacques toubon (h-0701/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: study on the gambling sector in the internal marketin 2004, the commission commissioned a study on the gambling sector in the internal market from the swiss institute for the comparison of laws (isdc). the isdc has commissioned part of this study from the centre for the study of gambling (manchester, uk), a british university centre which is to receive grants from bookmakers. the commission also doubts the independence of isdc itself, whose favourable financial situation is dependent on contracts from certain players in the sector. this economic link would constitute a de facto conflict of interest which could call into question the validity of the conclusions of this report. in view of the fact that this study will undoubtedly have an impact on the future of the regulations in force in this sector, what steps does the commission intend to take to ensure the objectivity of this study and what guarantees can it give to all those involved in the european gaming sector in this respect?
member of the commission. on the basis of the information available to me i can agree with the honourable member and, until it is proved otherwise, this particular institute has the highest reputation.
question no 48 by mr kacin (h-0725/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: difficulties faced by gambling operators in promoting their activities in some member states of the european union in july i sent a question to the commission concerning the difficulties faced by slovenian gambling operators in promoting their activities in the republic of austria. in its reply, the commission stated that it would examine the compatibility with community law of the austrian law (as amended in 2003) prohibiting foreign operators of gambling from advertising in austria. what has the commission achieved in the three months since the request was made? it should be recalled that austria prohibits foreign operators of gambling from advertising their activities on its territory, whereas this prohibition does not apply to domestic operators. it is clear that austria is thus protecting the economic interests of domestic operators and hindering foreign tourism companies in the european single market. this is a breach of the essential principles of the free market, in particular article 49 of the treaty establishing the european community, which concerns the freedom to provide services. what action will the commission take in this context to put an end to this discrimination before the republic of austria assumes the presidency of the council on 1 january 2006?
member of the commission. i thank the honourable member for what he is going to do. i invite him to contact the commission so that a meeting can be set up with him. perhaps the matter could be further pursued then. that would be one way of proceeding.
question no 49 by mairead mcguinness (h-0715/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: consumer protection in crossborder financial transactionsis the european commission addressing the problem of lack of consumer protection in the insurance/pension funds sector? the difficulties faced by thousands of eu citizens who had invested in equitable life and subsequently had to accept significant cuts in their pension payments are a clear example of the eu's failure to protect its citizens. in the light of the experience of equitable life, how does the european commission intend to protect its citizens/consumers in the context of measures to open up banking across borders? who will pay compensation to those who have suffered losses in the event of problems? the answer to this question is particularly important in the light of the efforts to reach agreement on and implement the proposed services directive (2004/0001 (cod)) as concerns about the country of origin principle and consumer protection exist in the context of the directive.
member of the commission. the commission has the greatest sympathy for the many thousands of policy-holders and pensioners who have suffered severe financial loss as a result of the serious problems encountered by the equitable life insurance company. the commission has no direct role in the supervision of individual insurance undertakings. that is the responsibility of each member state and is, in practice, carried out by the supervisory authorities appointed for that purpose. the united kingdom financial services authority, recognising certain weaknesses in the former regime and responding to criticisms in the penrose report, has launched a major reform of the regulation of life insurance undertakings. in part this reflects the lessons learned from the equitable life affair. as regards the payment of compensation where national supervision has failed, redress can only be sought before the national courts of the member state in question. with respect to the community regime for the insurance and pension sector, the commission is currently working on the solvency ii project, the aim of which is to achieve over time a more harmonised risk-based system for the supervision and prudential regulation of all insurance undertakings across the european union. the commission is also continuing its exploratory work with the member states on insurance guarantee schemes that could deal with situations where an insurance undertaking fails and is unable to meet its commitments to policy-holders and beneficiaries. it should be noted, however, that equitable life did not enter into liquidation and continues to operate as an authorised insurance undertaking, albeit one that is closed to new business. as far as the banking sector is concerned, the deposit guarantee schemes directive already obliges member states to set up schemes which offer a minimum guarantee level of eur 20 000 to depositors, although the threshold is higher in a number of member states. the deposit guarantee schemes directive is in the process of being reviewed in order to ensure that it is still in line with market developments. concerning the proposal for a directive on services in the internal market, the commission would like to recall that financial services are excluded from the scope of application of the services proposal. furthermore, it should be noted that the services proposal includes provisions strengthening consumer protection. in particular, article 27 requires member states to ensure that providers whose services present a direct and particular risk to the health and safety of the recipient or a third person, or to the financial security of the recipient, would be obliged to take out professional indemnity insurance.
member of the commission. there is long-established european court of justice jurisprudence in this area. the situation is as i outlined previously in response to a question regarding another insurance undertaking in the united kingdom. the commission is not in a position to pursue the matter in the way that the honourable member and other members of the house would like it to, because it is not the way the commission can do things. the european court of justice only finds in relation to the way a directive has been transposed and the situation as it is at the present time. it is for policy-holders who have been affected by any change to pursue those issues through their own national courts. i have given this reply in response to previous questions in this generally related area and that remains the position.
member of the commission. irrespective of where my sympathies might lie in this area, the role of the commission is to ensure that the united kingdom is currently in conformity with the relevant eu legislation. the commission cannot make any pronouncement on the content and application of the former regulation regime which has been replaced. the commission has consistently acted in full conformity with the jurisprudence of the court of justice on the role and purpose of infringement proceedings. the objective of such proceedings under eu law is to establish or restore the compatibility of existing national law with eu law, and not to rule on the possible past incompatibility of a national law, which has since been amended or replaced. that is the established jurisprudence on those issues and remains the situation.
i shall now interrupt this debate, since we are running out of time, so that questions nos 50 to 53 will be answered in writing.
question no 54 by mr bernd posselt (h-0670/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: regulation (eec) no 2081/92: protected geographical indications - karlsbad oblast regulation (eec) no 2081/92 oj l 208, 24.7.1992, p. 1 provides for the protection of names of foodstuffs the quality of which is due to their geographical origin. the czech republic has applied for the protection of that name for the product 'karlovarské oplatky'. karlsbad oblaten is a waffle specialty that has been made for about 200 years according to old family recipes, which owes its worldwide fame to the then heyday of the bohemian spa town of karlsbad (karlovy vary). until 1945, they were mainly produced in the bäderdreieck karlsbad-marienbad-franzensbad, which was then mostly inhabited by germans, but also in austria. with the expulsion of large parts of the german-speaking population from czechoslovakia after the end of the second world war, many of the long-established baker families from karlsbad and other parts of the baths triangle, among others, came to germany and austria and rebuilt the production of the karlsbad oblates there with their savoir-faire. is the commission aware of these circumstances and how will it take them into account in its assessment of the czech application for protection?
member of the commission. the commission can confirm to the honourable member that it has received an application from the czech republic to register 'karlovarske oplatky' as a protected destination of origin according to council regulation (ec) no 2081/92. this application is under examination by the commission under the terms of the regulation. at this stage the commission cannot take into account any information or material from third parties that is not contained in the application itself. if the commission concludes that the application meets the requirements for registration, the name and a summary of the specification will be published in the official journal of the european union. this allows any party with a legitimate interest to lodge an objection to the registration with their member state. any member state may object to the registration within six months of publication, following which the commission will invite the authorities of the member states concerned to discuss the issue and seek agreement on the dossier. however, if the commission concludes in its initial examination that the application does not meet the terms of the regulation, it will take a formal decision not to publish the application. therefore, the strict answer to the honourable member's question is that at the initial stage the commission will only take into account matters contained in the application. however, if the commission decides to publish the application there will be an opportunity for the producers referred to by the honourable member to object to the registration.
- i'm not sure. i do think that the commission should also take account of information from parliament. karlsbad oblates were produced and sold in karlsbad and marienbad. they were invented in the monastery of tepel. they were produced and distributed worldwide in the 19th and 20th centuries, and today the best karlsbad oblates in the world are produced in dillingen on the danube by the wetzel company. look at me, please. you know, i know a little bit about food, and i can confirm that these are the best oblates. i therefore ask you to consider whether such an international and european name can be geographically restricted. that would be an impoverishment of our european culture.
member of the commission. in the circumstances i had expected to be able to sample these extremely delicious waffles, but that might be for another occasion. i can only repeat that if the commission decides to publish the application, there is a possibility for the different member states to go into the matter within a fixed period. if that should be the outcome, then you have that possibility. i am quite sure that this will be followed up later on.
i can confirm across the faction that the oblates are actually very tasty. perhaps, mr posselt, you should bring one to the commissioner.
question no 55 by mrs schierhuber (h-0687/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: olmütz quarry as a protected geographical indication under regulation (eec) no 2081/92 by letter of 19 october 2004, the czech republic requested that the product 'olomoucvke tvaruzky' (genuine olmütz quarry) be granted european trade name protection in accordance with regulation (eec) no 2081/92 oj l 208, 24.7.1992, p. 1. olmützer quargel is a sour milk cheese originally from the austrian moravia (see "handbuch der käse" by hrsg. dr. heinrich mair-waldburg) and produced in austria since the turn of the last century. however, in germany, for example, olmütz quarry has been produced and marketed as such since at least 1945. the change in the geopolitical situation after the second world war led to the immigration of a large number of german-speaking cheese-making professionals from the former czechoslovakia to austria. the knowledge brought with it was used to further develop the production of olmütz quarry. the protection of this name for products produced in the czech republic would make it impossible to continue marketing olmütz quarry, which is traditionally produced in austria. what possibilities does the european commission see for taking this into account in the context of the protection provided for in regulation (eec) no 2081/92?
member of the commission. the commission can confirm to the honourable member that it has received an application from the czech republic to register 'pravé olomoucke tvarůžky' as a protected geographical indication. as for what to do, whether the commission takes a decision to follow up these ideas, or whether to just leave it as it is, the explanation is exactly the same, and to save time at this late stage i would simply suggest that there is a possibility to come back to this.
member of the commission. i am quite aware of the reasons why this is produced outside the original triangle, but i can only recommend that you try to use the possibilities available in the legislation if this should not turn out as you wish it to in the end.
question no 56 by zbigniew krzysztof kuźmiuk (h-0681/05) subject: the situation in poland and the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: situation on the polish soft fruit marketon 11 may 2005, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the simplification of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, calling on the european commission, inter alia, to strengthen the role of producer organisations and to restrict imports of soft fruit. this was the result of numerous efforts by members of the european parliament in the committee on agriculture and rural development and letters addressed by members to commissioner mariann fischer boel on this issue. the european commission has not yet reacted decisively to the soft fruit problem. in 2005, the situation on the soft fruit market in poland was catastrophic. for the second year in a row, the purchase prices of strawberries, raspberries and gooseberries were well below the cost of production. will the commission implement the solutions proposed by the european parliament in its resolution of 11 may 2005 so that they will be effective before the 2006 harvest?
member of the commission. work on the report started back in april 2005 and since then investigations have been carried out in the major countries concerned: belgium, denmark, france, germany, hungary, poland and the united kingdom. two missions to poland were undertaken during the harvest period. the report is being prepared on the basis of the information collected during these missions, together with statistical data. it will cover in detail the four major european sub-sectors: strawberries, blackcurrants, raspberries and cherries for processing. possible measures will be included in the commission communication on the proposal for reform of the fruit and vegetable sector, scheduled to be discussed in the second part of 2006.
question no 57 by mr van hecke (h-0690/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: community agricultural aid for large landowners of noble origin recent reports suggest that many community agricultural aids are not paid to small farmers but to large landowners of wealth, mostly of noble origin. while hundreds of farmers received on average less than 100 euros in community aid, the landed gentry and food companies pocketed several million. some examples: the sugar company tate & lyle - eur 170 million; the dutch minister for agriculture, cees veerman, received eur 400 million. prince charles of england - € 340,000; the uk parker family - eur 1,5 million; the british baron rothschild - €500,000; the irish landowner larry goodman was awarded €508,000. is the commission aware of this? how can it explain this misuse of community agricultural subsidies?
member of the commission. i have always been in favour of transparency. that is why we have been looking into ways of how to make member states publish these figures. at present i am not in a position to do that, but i am working in close cooperation with my colleague, commissioner kallas, to see what can be done. naturally, we cannot break the rules or breach legislation. that would cause huge problems. but we are looking into this matter and we are trying, via the link to our website, to show everyone that we want to see the member states publish these figures.
member of the commission. when we last had discussions on trying to find a compromise political agreement on the cap reform in 2003, there were various discussions on how to target the payments to different types. two ideas were put forward. one of them was accepted by the council and that was the idea of taking all the smaller farms out of the system – those receiving less than eur 5 000 with this franchise. they do not contribute to the modulation. when we have to reduce a direct payment to the farmers afterwards because we hit the ceiling of the brussels agreement, these smaller enterprises will not be hit. we have taken into consideration the possibility of not targeting the smaller farms when we talk about reducing the direct payment.
questions nos 58 to 96 will be answered in writing for unanswered questions, see the annex 'question time'.
yes, we did. we are already several minutes late and i would like to give the interpreters a chance to take a break. that is why i announced earlier that we could no longer deal with the matter. i was hoping you heard that. the question is closed.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, colleagues and fellow sufferers! we are fortunate to be able to hold such an important debate at 9 p.m. in the privacy of the reporters and shadow reporters. but let us not be too upset about this, let us tackle the subject. mr president, i believe that you have allies in our group to ensure that the package remains the package, except for a single french vote. but we know that sometimes french voices are particularly important. but i believe the majority wants and will hold the package together. that's what we're gonna do tomorrow. we are not doing this for our own ends. i am not even a lawyer and i cannot argue that we should even begin to work on the internal market for passenger transport almost 13 years after the completion of the internal market. that's a good argument for lawyers, but we'll leave that out of it. what we want to do with the third package is to improve the reliability and customer friendliness of long-distance and regional transport. that's our goal. we want to see competition, we want to see better services for the benefit of passengers. that is our objective. the opening up of national rail networks to non-discriminatory use by all railway undertakings, the unified union passenger rights and the unified train driver are therefore interrelated. we do not want to have locomotives that can cross borders, but then the train has to stop at the border because the driver has to be changed, and then he is on holiday or sick, and the train stops. we want to make it possible not only to buy a ticket to every destination in europe, but also to get through quickly. that is why we need the third railway package. i must admit that there were initial discussions in my group. the commission has also been asked to give its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the quality of water intended for human consumption. since we are opening up the networks to crossborder traffic on 1 january 2006 and to national freight traffic on 1 january 2007, we hope that in two or three years' time there will be real competition and that we will not need any legal regulation on the quality requirement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway companies in the community are able to compete with each other in the alpine railway sector. i think that is why we do not need any legislation on quality requirements. the market will decide. i would like to make a few comments on my report. i think we should not always be inventing something new, but rather should go back to what parliament decided on the second railway package at second reading in the development of railway companies. we have decided by an overwhelming majority to open the networks not only to crossborder rail traffic but also to national rail traffic from 1 january 2008. that was our demand two years ago. why should we go back to that, i wonder. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail, and calls for the introduction of a single european railway network. we all know that if we negotiate with the council, 2012 can turn into 2013 or something else. but if parliament had already called for the opening up of all rail networks in 2008 two years ago, we must stick to this line. i hope, mr vice-president, that you will follow parliament's lead and regulate not only cross-border traffic but traffic in the whole internal market. we have to move on at some point. i do not want a fourth, fifth or sixth railway package. we should end this and decide on liberalisation, the opening up of networks, customer friendliness, competition with this package. let me just point out two other things: we already have a brake on the opening up of the networks, especially the opening up of the networks to national rail transport. we agree with the commission that the networks should not be opened if this would create problems for regional passenger transport, not potential problems but a real threat to its economic existence. we do not want to jeopardize regional transport by opening up the networks. i say to my dutch colleagues: you have nothing to fear. i do believe that the brake you yourself have proposed for crossborder traffic, which is even more important for national traffic, can prevent the collapse of national regional traffic, because in this case the networks do not have to be opened. in this respect, our colleagues from smaller countries can put their concerns aside.i do not want to go into the fact that we want to amend directive 14/2001 to give high-speed lines a better chance of actually planning for the longer term. i would like to conclude by saying the following: we in parliament have always said, apart from certain colleagues in the back: the way the commission has proposed the package, it should remain the same. that is why we have delayed the timing of this package. once we have decided something, the council is free to decide. the most negative experience is the meijer report. we did our first reading in november 2001 after the commission had made a proposal on public passenger transport in 2000. the council has not yet acted, but has deliberately left the proposal in the shade. the council is not doing its job; it does not want to tackle the difficult subject. but we have said that these four parts belong together, and they belong together with the proposal on public transport. we have said that we will conclude this definitively with a legislative resolution in plenary when the council gives us a signal. the chairman of the committee on transport and tourism informed us this afternoon that the british minister for transport, mr darling, had given us his assurance that we would keep this package together. that is why we should take the big step tomorrow and vote not only on the amendments but also on the legislative resolutions, so that we can say tomorrow afternoon that this is our position on the third railway package, this is our opinion. well, council, keep your word, keep the package together, make sensible proposals! we can make good progress in this respect. i hope that the british presidency will actively take up our signal, which we will give tomorrow, in the council on 6 october and speed up the work. let us not forget all the details: we are not doing this for the sake of any kind of entitlement or liberalization, we are doing this in the interests of passengers, because we are seeing a trend towards more and more long-distance passengers using their cars again, using low-cost airlines, not using the train. but just as our general line on freight is that freight must be moved from the road to the railway, so our line must be to make an offer to passengers to get them out of the car and back into the railway again.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the harmonization of technical standards is not the only requirement for the smooth operation of crossborder rail freight and passenger services. the same is true of vocational, linguistic and medical requirements. we can do this by standardizing skills, which is what we are proposing. this will lead to better interoperability of train drivers and greater safety in rail transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr savary, very much for the good cooperation and also for the compromises reached. firstly, we have also been able to reach agreement in the committee on critical points, such as the request to extend the scope of the directive from train drivers to other train staff. we have agreed on a two-stage procedure, with the railway agency to decide at a later stage whether the remaining train staff should be certified. secondly, the original three classes of driving licence have been reduced to two, which leads to administrative simplification and streamlining. thirdly, as regards the regular inspections of drivers, we want only those aspects of the drivers' fitness to drive to be regularly checked. fourthly, we want to set the date of introduction of the directive at the time of market opening. fifthly, as regards the question of whether certification should apply only to drivers in international traffic or also to drivers in national traffic, we propose that all drivers be gradually certified. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. this was and is the aim of the epp-ed group in this house. for this reason, and because of the compromises reached, the epp-ed group rejects amendments nos 46 and 50. i should like to conclude by saying a few words on the report on passenger rights and on amendment no 138. the aim is to create a european right to transport bicycles on all trains. this is another example of why many citizens are sceptical about europe. controlled to the last detail. ladies and gentlemen, let's set the right signals!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i think we have a good tradition in this parliament of strengthening the railway sector in the transport sector and thus the railway sector. we have taken this into account in the committee and therefore we will probably be able to adopt all the reports relating to the railway sector together with a large majority in the plenary tomorrow. i therefore thank all the rapporteurs and all the shadow rapporteurs for the work which has obviously brought us together in the end. i have just had a discussion in my group and once again the railway package was very much cut short when the jarzembowski report arrived. i had to disagree with that because there's a little more to this railroad package. i think the savary report is a very important report. it is necessary that we in europe have trained train drivers for cross-border transport, which means that the freight of train drivers is transported well, safely and with well-qualified staff who should also be properly social. i therefore believe that the savary report is an important step forward in the transport of goods. i think that the sterckx report is also important in that we are finally getting reasonable rules on passenger rights in europe and that customers, passengers, like other modes of transport, are also entitled to reasonable compensation and compensation if there are delays caused by fault. the report by mr zille is a good example of the commission's sometimes overreaching approach. mr zīle has already said that he has done a very good job. but the committee had major concerns, as did we. the quality requirements in the transport of goods are as follows: if you are already betting on the market, then a market can also regulate something. the critical thing, i think, is to strengthen the rail sector. it was one of her predecessors, mr commissioner, neil kinnock, who coined the slogan of the revitalization of the railways here in europe. neil kinnock (old labour, not new labour) was right in his description of the route, because we have the problem that we have had continuously since the 1970s a decreasing volume of traffic on the railways, both for goods and for people. if we are faced with a very critical energy situation at the moment and also know that the transport sector is the biggest energy consumer of all, then we must seize the opportunity to say: away from the road and increasingly also away from flying we will always come back to the kerosene tax and we will go to the rail. the railways must then be organised in a crossborder manner for both freight and passengers. we must not let former civil servants with state property - in some cases state sanctuaries - fail in this, but we must pave the way for a sensible new policy. we are in the first reading. we all know that there will be a common position, a second reading, at some point. we'll all meet again. so the excitement can be a little bit less. but i think we'll all agree on something sensible tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs very warmly. the free movement of people across europe, from lisbon to tallinn, from london to athens, has so far been achieved only by road and by air. the railway network, on the other hand, is like the famous 25-ply carpet. that'll keep the train on track. the national networks are to be opened. we greens want to take account of social and environmental considerations. we must also learn from the mistakes made in england and estonia, for example. europe cannot be satisfied with the situation on the railways, and certainly not the customers. excessive prices, frequent delays and poor service are usually the rule. there are also plans to discourage passengers. three examples: in germany, db ag is no longer planning to stop long-distance trains at berlin's zoologischer garten station. the passengers, on the other hand, are storming in, with the unanimous support of parliament and politicians. but db ag is not moving, the politicians are capitulating. in italy, the railway line between milan and verona is to be speeded up. the second largest city in lombardy, brescia, is to be cut off. this will increase travel time by 30 minutes for its 200,000 inhabitants. here too, politics seems powerless. the national parliaments and the european parliament have decided in their report on tourism that bicycles should be allowed on high-speed trains. the french tgv is possible, the german ice is not. but db ag is stubborn, the politicians are helpless. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same restrictions as the railways in the community. the european locomotive licence will make it unnecessary to change drivers at the border between member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. access for passengers with reduced mobility shall be ensured. a compensation scheme for freight transport is unnecessary. the opening up of national rail networks is to be extended gradually to passenger transport. but we'll give you permission on the following conditions: there must be no social dumping, environmental concerns must be taken into account, as called for in the meijer report by the european parliament. in this context, we welcome the fact that after several years the commission has finally made the new proposal for public services and forwarded it to parliament. there must be no ruinous competition. therefore, a tender may be waived if national railway companies are in danger of being destroyed. a report on the experience of competition so far is necessary. we want to copy the good and learn from the mistakes. the infrastructure - this is an experience from the uk and estonian example - must remain fully public. we are not going to accept that. in conclusion, we too are in favour of keeping a package a package and we hope that the council will act with the same wisdom and treat the package as a package. thank you for your attention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in 1994 we began the efforts to enable the european railways to be revitalised. we are now finalising our legislative efforts with the third railway package. in addition to the gradual liberalisation of all rail transport by 2012, the necessary technical, administrative and, in some cases, social harmonisation has been and will continue to be agreed in the present proposal. this has created the conditions for a european railway culture, which will enable railways to regain their importance and efficiency in the pan-european transport system. the liberalization of rail transport is not motivated by ideological convictions but by transport policy needs. they are due to the fact that the european single market, the economic area and also the cultural area need rail as a transport mode that does not operate only in isolated submarkets. it is on long cross-border routes that rail has its systemic advantages. the large losses of railway transport in volume - in freight transport by road, in passenger transport by road and also by low-cost airlines - can only be countered by this comprehensive reorientation. it is understandable that such a major change in the workplace might cause some anxiety among the employees. the period of 18 years between 1994 and 2012 however, provides the guarantee that all these changes could and can be realised in a socially sustainable way. in anticipation of the market order in rail passenger transport, the ice 3 was approved in france last week and the tgv will probably follow next year. then we have continuous high-speed trains from paris to southern germany. here the signs of the times were recognized. we shall see the signs of the times when we adopt the third railway package. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the railway infrastructure, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the railway infrastructure is properly designed and operated.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, honourable members, i warmly welcome this debate, which is held at a critical time as the european union prepares to open accession negotiations with turkey. i have enjoyed my previous exchanges with honourable members of this house on this topic, and the close and detailed interest that this parliament maintains in both turkey's accession process and enlargement issues more generally has further been demonstrated by the questions tabled for question time later this evening. the december 2004 european council decision to open accession negotiations brought turkey's 40-year goal of european union membership a significant step closer and in the process helped further to bind the country so critical to our future security, stability and prosperity to the union. the strategic case for opening accession negotiations is convincing. it includes the powerful incentive for reform and the contribution the process makes to stability and prosperity, the example that it sets to the world that there is no contradiction between islam and democracy, human rights and the protection of fundamental freedoms, and its contribution to reducing tension in the aegean and over cyprus. the june european council confirmed the december decision and recognised the importance for the european union's credibility of observing our existing commitments. as presidency, our task has been to deliver on these commitments and we are working hard to finalise the council's position in the framework for negotiations in advance of 3 october. the enlargement process has had unparalleled success in spreading european values and promoting greater security across the european continent, but it is as much for its own continued success that we must ensure we are scrupulous in ensuring that all the requirements are met. as commission rehn, who is with us today, has said, the negotiations with turkey will be the most rigorous yet, reflecting lessons learnt from the previous wave of enlargement. they are also expected to take many years to conclude. the powerful incentive for reform that enlargement offers to candidates has been strikingly evident in turkey in recent years. the european commission's 2004 regular report on turkey's progress towards accession noted 'substantial institutional convergence in turkey towards european standards', the reform process having 'clearly addressed major issues and highlighted a growing consensus in favour of liberal democracy'. there is much for turkey still to do in order to reach european union standards, including on freedom of religion and the implementation of existing legislation, and the commission will continue to monitor turkey's progress. but it was the impressive track record of european harmonisation reforms to date that prompted the december council to conclude that turkey sufficiently fulfilled the copenhagen political criteria. indeed, in the same month, this parliament adopted a resolution supporting the opening of accession negotiations with turkey 'without undue delay'. that december council set turkey two further conditions to be met before accession negotiations could be launched: to bring into force six outstanding pieces of legislation which reinforce the rule of law and human rights; and to sign a protocol extending the 1963 ankara agreement to the new member states. the new legislation entered into force on 1 june, and turkey signed the ankara agreement protocol on 29 july. both represent significant developments. the new legislation overhauls the turkish penal system, aligning it much more closely with european union models and adds significantly to the reforms that have taken place in turkey in recent years. signature of the protocol extends the european union-turkey association agreement – or ankara agreement – to all 25 member states. it is, of course, with 25 member states that turkey will conduct its accession negotiations. you are all well aware that, when signing the protocol, turkey issued a unilateral declaration restating its longstanding position of non-recognition of the republic of cyprus. last week the european community and its member states issued a declaration setting out its position on the issues raised. that declaration makes clear that the 'declaration by turkey is unilateral, does not form part of the protocol and has no legal effect on turkey's obligations under the protocol'. furthermore, it states that 'turkey must apply the protocol fully to all european union member states' and that the 'european union will monitor this closely and evaluate full implementation in 2006'. the declaration also restates that the european community and its member states 'recognise only the republic of cyprus as a subject of international law' and clarifies that 'recognition of all member states is a necessary component of turkey's accession process'. the council's declaration also reiterates the agreement of the european community and its member states 'on the importance of supporting the un secretary-general's efforts to bring about a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem in line with relevant unscrs and the principles on which the european union is founded'. resolution of the cyprus problem lies in the hands of the united nations and the communities on the island. the european union's role is to support the un secretary-general's 'good offices', and to provide a context within which the two parties can re-engage with one another in confidence and accommodate the ultimate agreement. let me make one final point in my introductory remarks to this debate. turkey will not accede to the union imminently; 35 chapters must be opened and closed; further reforms will be required; and some member states have already committed to referenda on turkey's eventual accession. the turkey that will eventually join the european union will, frankly, be a different turkey from the one we see today – and it may also be a rather different european union that it joins. but the progress made by turkey so far has been quite extraordinary and prime minister erdogan's government remains committed to further reform. the conditions laid down by the december european council have been satisfied, and this paves the way for opening accession negotiations next monday. i am delighted that the foreign secretary will appear before this parliament's committee on foreign affairs on the following day; he will of course update the members of that committee then on the progress made. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i should like to warmly welcome the new observers of parliament from bulgaria and romania. i am glad to see that they are participating in the work of this house and i look forward to working with them in the future. this debate about turkey is certainly very timely. we are on the eve of accession negotiations, which will begin next monday, 3 october, the date unanimously fixed by the european council. this opens a new phase in eu-turkey relations. the reasons which led the european union to decide to open accession negotiations with turkey are unchanged: the eu needs a stable, democratic and increasingly prosperous turkey, at peace with its neighbours, and embracing european values, policies and standards. the start of the negotiations will give a strong boost to those in turkey who want to reform the country to meet the european values of the rule of law and human rights; they are also a way for the eu to exert leverage over the direction of these reforms in turkey. the conditions set in the december european council conclusions have been met. first, the six pieces of legislation, including the new penal code identified as necessary by the commission in last year’s recommendation, entered into force on 1 june. second, turkey signed the additional protocol to the ankara agreement on 29 july. in this context, i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs and rapporteur, mr elmar brok, for putting forward the recommendation to give assent to the conclusion of the additional protocol to the ankara agreement. i shall now make some comments on recent developments in this regard. the commission regrets the fact that turkey issued a declaration upon signature of the additional protocol. this obliged the eu member states to react and to lay down the obligations we expect turkey to meet in a statement adopted on 21 september. the eu statement stresses that the declaration by turkey is unilateral, as mr alexander very correctly pointed out. it does not form part of the protocol and has no legal effect on turkey’s obligations under the protocol. this is the crux of the matter. the legal services of the council and the commission agree fully on this point. i am aware that in paragraph 2 of your joint motion for a resolution you intend to ask the commission to secure an answer from the turkish government regarding the ratification process in the turkish grand national assembly. i am at your disposal to further inquire about the exact details of the ratification process in turkey, but the essence of the matter is really that the declaration by turkey is simply unilateral. it has no legal effect and it cannot in any way call into question the full and non-discriminatory implementation of the protocol. that is what counts. secondly, the eu expects full and non-discriminatory implementation of the protocol, including the removal of all obstacles to the free movement of goods, which also extends to restrictions on means of transport. thirdly, the opening of negotiations on the relevant chapters depends on turkey’s compliance with its contractual obligations to all member states; failure to meet these obligations in full will affect the overall progress of the negotiations. the fourth element of the statement is that the recognition of all member states is a necessary component of the accession process; accordingly, the eu underlines the importance of the normalisation of relations between turkey and all eu member states, as soon as possible. finally, the statement makes it clear that the european community and its member states agree on the importance of supporting the efforts of the un secretary-general to bring about a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem in line with the relevant un security council resolutions and the very principles on which the eu is founded, so that a just and lasting settlement will contribute to peace, stability and harmonious relations on the island and in the region in a broader sense. right before the start of the accession negotiations, the council should adopt the negotiating framework proposed by the commission. this framework forms a solid basis for rigorous and fair negotiations with turkey. it is the most rigorous framework ever presented by the commission. i have read your joint motion for a resolution carefully. i share many of your concerns. i also agree that there is an important link between the pace of negotiations, on the one hand, and the pace of political reforms in turkey on the other. i shall spare no effort to repeat time and again that starting accession negotiations marks only the beginning of a very demanding and complex process. turkey will need to continue and accelerate its process of internal transformation and its transition towards a fully-fledged liberal democracy respectful of human rights and minorities. turkey’s reform process is ongoing. the human rights situation has improved, but significant efforts are still required. first, let us look at the brighter side. recently, there have been some encouraging signals. the acknowledgment by prime minister erdogan of the existence of a 'kurdish issue' is a landmark. his trip to diyarbakir suggests the importance the government in turkey attaches to the economic and social development of south-east turkey. moreover, the academic conference on the armenian issue was finally able to be held in istanbul last weekend, with the support of the government and despite last-minute attempts to cancel it by an administrative court. these attempts were strongly condemned by prime minister erdogan and deputy prime minister abdullah gül. this is a major step forward in seeking the historical truth in turkey on this very sensitive issue. turning now to the darker side, despite the efforts of the authorities, implementation on the ground remains uneven. on the one hand, there are signs that the judiciary is enforcing the reforms. several positive court judgments have been made in relation to cases of freedom of expression, freedom of religion and the fight against torture and ill-treatment. on the other hand, there have been contradictory decisions, particularly in the area of freedom of expression where, for example, journalists continue to be prosecuted and, on occasion, convicted, for expressing certain non-violent opinions. the case of the author, orhan pamuk, is emblematic of the difficulties faced in ensuring effective and uniform implementation of these reforms and also of the struggle between reformers and conservatives in turkey. the novelist was prosecuted by a district judge in istanbul under article 301 of the new penal code for 'denigrating turkish identity'. the commission has already made it very clear that its assessment of the new penal code, in particular the doubtful provisions relating to freedom of expression, will depend on how these provisions are implemented. the prosecution of mr pamuk raises serious concerns in this respect. if this is indeed the direction taken by the judiciary in turkey, then the turkish penal code will have to be amended so as to ensure that freedom of expression is no longer subject to the very particular beliefs of a district judge, but simply follows european standards as we all know them, on the basis of the european convention of human rights. on these issues the commission will continue to monitor closely the progress towards fully meeting the copenhagen political criteria. we shall make a detailed analysis of that progress in our regular report, to be adopted on 9 november. monsieur le président, mesdames, messieurs, l'union européenne se trouve à un moment crucial dont nous ne devons pas sous-estimer l'importance. en ouvrant des négociations d'adhésion avec la turquie, nous prenons une option forte sur la poursuite de la métamorphose politique, économique et sociale de ce pays. ce faisant, nous respectons nos engagements à son égard. j'adresse à la fois aux européens et en particulier à la turquie le message que nous devons construire des relations basées sur une confiance réciproque. je fais confiance aux autorités turques pour qu'elles s'embarquent dans ce voyage avec une attitude ouverte et que le 3 octobre fournisse l'occasion d'un nouveau départ. la démonstration d'un engagement sans ambiguïtés ni arrière-pensées envers la transformation démocratique et les valeurs européennes sera certainement le meilleur atout de la turquie pour gagner le soutien de l'opinion publique en europe. au cours de la période à venir, la turquie aura l'opportunité de démontrer qu'elle s'attache sérieusement à intégrer les valeurs européennes. les pays qui souhaitent adhérer à l'union doivent en effet partager notre vision de l'europe et notre conception de la démocratie, de l'état de droit, des droits de l'homme et de la solidarité. ils doivent également partager nos normes que ce soit, entre autres, dans le domaine social, environnemental ou industriel. si l'union européenne prend un pari sur leur adhésion future, c'est parce que nous croyons aussi que c'est dans notre meilleur intérêt et que c'est pour le bénéfice de nos concitoyens. je m'engage personnellement devant cette assemblée à mettre en oeuvre rigoureusement nos critères et conditions. monsieur le président, enfin, comme je l'ai dit auparavant, le voyage est aussi important que la destination finale. les réformes comptent. bien que l'objectif commun des négociations soit l'adhésion, de telles négociations sont, par leur nature même, ouvertes quant au résultat. mais c'est dans notre intérêt réciproque que ce processus soit encadré par des principes clairs et rigoureux, tels que ceux prévus dans le cadre des négociations. ceci est la meilleure garantie de succès. (applaudissements)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the additional protocol, like many other issues concerning the opening of negotiations with turkey, is a matter of very basic principle, namely whether a candidate country wants to recognise all the parts of the whole to which it wants to join. in other words, recognition of all the member states. the commission has already proposed to the council in december last year that at this stage international recognition is not necessary, but that the signing of the additional protocol 'customs union e 25 cyprus' is sufficient. turkey has fulfilled this commitment, but with a unilateral declaration expressing that implementation is at least in doubt. the council is preparing a declaration to this effect, stating that this is politically and legally unilateral. we have asked the commissioner to make his good offices available to us, and he has promised to do so. the question whether the turkish government intends to make this unilateral declaration part of the ratification process in the turkish parliament is still unanswered. because the moment this is made part of the ratification process in the turkish parliament and it is legally established that this is how non-implementation is handled in turkey, we have a problem. i therefore invite you to submit this statement requested by the committee on foreign affairs and mentioned in the joint resolution until we vote. we should make it clear that it is turkey that wants to join the european union and that we are not asking for turkish membership. sometimes i get the feeling it's the other way around. we must see that the joint statement of the political groups which has been tabled attaches great importance to the implementation of the additional protocol. in order to tackle this problem, it is a good proposal that the chapter on the customs union should be negotiated by 2006 at the latest and completed by the end of 2006, so that this question - including the recognition of cyprus - can be clarified quickly and we do not enter into negotiations with turkey without having a perspective on this fundamental question. we therefore agree with you, mr commissioner and mr president-in-office, that the good offices of the united nations should be called upon in future on the cyprus question, so that we can reach a solution to the cyprus conflict as a whole. i would like to make a few personal comments. i was approached yesterday by someone who said: why is it not a point of discussion that a thousand tortures are taking place in turkey, but that the unproven question of a general leads to the fact that there can be no negotiations with croatia? i have to admit, i haven't found an answer to that. we should be careful in the honest political business not to seek formal arguments to hide our own subjective political aims behind them, but to take a very clear honest position on this issue. we should also make it clear - and this is why the resolution tabled by the political groups is so important - that the european union's capacity to receive is a criterion that must be met, and that this criterion is also self-explanatory - with questions of financial possibilities, of content possibilities and of institutional possibilities. i would invite the council and the commission to carry out the reflection phase on the constitution in these weeks and months with the same consistency as that with which turkey is being pursued. then perhaps we could also move forward on this question of receptivity. we must continue to see that we as the european parliament - this will be made clear in the resolution of the political groups - say that the conditions are formally fulfilled - this is different from their wording - sufficiently fulfilled - and that minority rights, the question of the reform process within turkey, the question of religious freedom play a major role. commissioner, you exchanged letters with the turkish foreign minister this summer on the foundation act. the turkish foreign minister refused to make the adjustment you requested and said that it could not be made in parliament until after 3 october. the questions of pluralism, tolerance and religious freedom, and the right of the orthodox church to train priests whom it has not been able to train since 1971, are essential and substantive issues of the european union's values and should play a major role in the first months of the negotiation process. i think that the european perspective is important in turkey and in many other countries. the european perspective is the key lever to drive forward the internal reform process in countries such as those of the western balkans, ukraine or turkey. that's why no doors are to be closed. but it also means being realistic and negotiating not only about openness of results but also about openness of objectives. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there is hardly a political issue of such importance to the existence of the european union as the possible membership of turkey in the european union. of course, there are different views on this important question. i would say on behalf of our group - i have co-signed the joint motion for a resolution - that as a group we naturally give every member of our group the opportunity to vote in one way or another on such a fundamental question, because we not only respect but also deeply acknowledge the conviction of each individual member of our group on this question. that is why there will be different positions on this from different members in our group. but we agree - and that is why we unanimously tabled a motion for a resolution - that the negotiating process with turkey must be truly open in both directions. we say very strongly that it is in everyone's interest that democracy, the rule of law and human rights in turkey develop in a way that is in line with our values. if turkey's membership is not the goal, we have a great interest in it and we say this today to our turkish partners and friends that if turkey does not become a member at the end of this process, we will seek a close partnership alternative, a good basis for partnership, cooperation and friendship with turkey. we are quite frankly saying after all that the president-in-office of the council has said, after all that the commissioner has said: it is almost like an egg dance! the council is making a statement, turkey is making a statement, the council is making a statement. mr commissioner, you promised the committee on foreign affairs - elmar brok has just emphasized this - that you would seek a declaration from the turkish government that the non-recognition of cyprus and the refusal to allow cypriot ships and aircraft to enter or fly into turkish territory is not part of the ratification process in turkey. we have not received this statement from the turkish government. if we do not receive such a statement from you by noon today, in which turkey explains that this is not part of the ratification process, our group will ask that we suspend our agreement to the protocol. it is politically and logically correct not to vote on this until we have received this statement from the turkish government. i say this with all seriousness: what is the human rights situation? you should talk to the patriarch of the orthodox church, patriarch bartholomew. nothing has changed as regards the freedom of religion of christians in turkey. we in the epp-ed group are in favour of partnership, friendship and dialogue with the islamic world. but it's not just one-way. islam too - in this case the turkish government - must be prepared to recognize and implement the legitimate rights of christians in turkey. i'm worried about it. mr president-in-office, i am addressing you now and i hope you will give me the attention i need. i call on the british government to adopt the same standards. we know the human rights situation in turkey. what about croatia? croatia you refuse to negotiate because this general is not available, which the government obviously cannot do. but in the case of turkey, we almost all close our eyes and measure by other standards. i ask you, in the context of your own credibility, to set the same standards here and to treat croatia fairly and objectively as well. this is very important and we call on the commission to do so. we will be a very critical - though of course always positive - companion to the commission if, within a certain timeframe, there is no improvement in the human rights situation following the opening of negotiations with turkey. we know that torture is still practiced today. if this does not stop, we must also be prepared to suspend the negotiations. we must not be silent about these human rights violations. i now come to the last point - which is very important and i am quoting our joint resolution, which i co-signed, and also that of mr eurlings and mr brok, whom i thank very much for having led the negotiations on behalf of our group. paragraph 16 states that the treaty of nice is not an acceptable basis for further decisions on the accession of further new member states and parliament therefore insists that the necessary reforms be brought about within the framework of the constitutional process. this means that turkey is not the only country which has to fulfil the conditions for accession. it is a hard and difficult road, and we want turkey to follow the path of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. we must also ensure that we are able to join the european union. if it is not guaranteed, it is irresponsible to continue to enlarge this european union. in the end, we will find something that is no longer the european union. let us also do our part here in the european union to make it strong and capable of action. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it would be better, mr poettering, if you said that we do not want turkey to become a full member of the european union. because that's the message of your speech. then tell me what you think. what you're doing here is an egg dance around the kernel. you do not want turkey to be a full member of the european union, you say! there are also members of your group who put this in large ads on their website. that's the point, and that's what you're pushing. we will tell you what our group wants. on 3 october, as the heads of state or government - 18 of whom are members of your political family - decided, the accession process will be opened by negotiations which will take ten to fifteen years and which will not be at zero tariff, but whose conditions will be defined in the council on a proposal from the commission and which we are discussing here today. i want to mention a few conditions that are indispensable. if turkey wants to join the european union, it must meet basic conditions. we agree on one point: it is not possible for one country to apply for membership of the european union and not recognise another member state. it's not possible! that is why we say that recognition cannot be a precondition for the opening of negotiations, but must be in the course of the negotiations. we also say clearly: this cannot be the end of a 15-year process; it has to happen immediately, like in the first year or two. if the implementation of the treaty of rome, of which mrs brok spoke, is not implemented, if cyprus is not recognised, then the accession negotiations must be suspended. i am glad you are on our side, but you will have to wait a little longer with the applause, colleagues, there is more to come. but if you want to enlarge the european union, you must also make it enlargeable. we are in agreement on this too, as is stated in this joint resolution. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take action on the matter. if the european union is not receptive to turkey, it is not receptive to croatia either. i want to tell you what the message of your policy is: we do not want turkey, it is far away and islamic. croatia is catholic, conservative and close; that is why we want it. that is the policy of your group. she's a hypocrite and nothing else! you cannot promise a candidate country for 40 years that it can become a member of the union. we cannot demand that this country undergo the processes of transformation it has undergone. progress in democratization has not been made under any conservative government - whether led by çiller or yilmaz, your special friend - as far as under the erdoğan government. so i 'm going to tell you this in no uncertain terms: the security gains that could be derived from full membership should not be underestimated. but we cannot - and this is also our own address - be blind and say that accession can take place tomorrow. it's tied to conditions, but it's mutual. turkey must fulfil them and the european union must fulfil them. a little more honesty in this discussion would be good. you don't want turkey, then say so openly. we want to give it a chance, but we do not know whether it can be joined in the end, because the conditions for reform must be met in both countries, on both sides. (interjections by mr langen) you should exercise special restraint, mr langen. i remember december 1995 very well. the most ardent supporter of accession in this parliament was werner langen. you are one of the hypocrites in this matter! i have a good memory, mr president, and shouting at the top of my lungs will not make your false arguments any better! i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider that the european parliament... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you to note in the minutes mr langen's remark: 'such a liar!' i would be grateful if this could at least be noted in the minutes. mr president, you can see from the excitement of your christian-democratic colleagues that it is difficult to be caught in public. the group of the european people's party is committed to the following. the debate mr poettering described for his own shop is, of course, also applicable to us. in our group, too, there is not just one opinion in our shop. but i would like to come back to paragraph 16 of our joint resolution because it was clear from mr poettering's speech that we will soon have to discuss croatia. the following basic conditions shall also apply to croatia: cooperation with the international court of justice is a conditio sine qua non. but one thing is clear. the basic precondition for any enlargement is a constitution for the european union, as stated in paragraph 16. if it is not this constitution, because it will not be implemented in its present form, i say quite clearly: nice and a few corrections to it are not enough for enlargement! the demand for a constitution and the aim of a constitution for the european union must remain if the european union is to be made capable of enlargement. that is true of turkey, but it is also true of any other candidate country, so that we do not misunderstand each other. and i would like to hear, mr poettering, whether you will maintain the link between these two conditions with the same enthusiasm when it comes to croatia. i am curious to see whether you will then demand the same basic conditions with the same passion as you have demanded here in turkey. i'm waiting for that day. in sum, we as a group will vote in favour of the resolution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the negotiations must then be interrupted, suspended if necessary. in this respect, there is no need for a postponement. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i would like to ask you very sincerely to ensure that, after a period of reflection, mr cohn-bendit will withdraw the generalized application of the term racism to all those who oppose turkish membership.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. there has been a lot of talk about the historians' conference in istanbul last weekend. i was a participant in that conference in istanbul, and contrary to what mrs de sarnez has just said, that conference took place. it took place because the turkish prime minister and foreign minister made it clear that this conference must take place, and they have shown solidarity with the scientists, the critical minds in turkey. it would be good for the european parliament if we could thank the turkish prime minister across all the borders for the courage he has shown in holding this critical meeting. it was a sign of european consciousness. but i also brought two orders from turkey. the first is to thank all those who have worked here for many years for human rights and democracy in turkey, even at a time when turkey was in the grip of the cold war, as the rest of the world was, and when some of those who speak of human rights today saw everything in turkey at that time, except human rights problems. secondly, a request to continue with the european union's support, because it is the only way to ensure that democracy and reforms are established in turkey on a lasting basis. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. how often have i heard discussions in turkey in recent weeks and months on the subject of pacta sunt servanda? but this seems to apply only to the european side, and not to all of them, but only to those who are critical of turkey and its accession. it seems that only we are entitled to the pacta sunt servanda. turkey itself is not involved at all. turkey is clearly not prepared to abide by our rules. the events of the last few months have shown that. the pact is the servant. the council and the commission are not doing so either. they are constantly violating the common rules, the common treaties. they'd have to be sued in the first place. the copenhagen political criteria are non-negotiable and had to be met by the other candidate countries before negotiations could begin. turkey is suddenly no longer a country where all is well, despite all the reforms. what happened? what happened? the commission regrets turkey's misconduct, as mr rehn said earlier. nevertheless, it strongly recommends negotiations and full membership. the commission says that turkey now attaches great importance to the economic and social development of the south-east of the country. no, it's a big show being put on by mr. erdoğan right now! the truth is that the kurdish population is excluded from the eu process, excluded from its own national parliament. let 's not forget: the armenian conference was originally prevented by a member of the turkish government! orhan pamuk is on trial. the gay and lesbian organization was banned in turkey two days ago. peaceful protesters have been beaten up and then brought to justice. torture continues to exist on a large scale. the situation of women is shameful. that is a reason for saying no to the opening of negotiations. there is no change in sight here. freedom of religion does not exist in turkey, but it is used as an argument for the islamization of the country. the european union allows all this because it is using all the means of pressure - out of naivety or out of massive national self-interest - to get out of hand. but in turkey , only something changes ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. europe is in crisis. we have no constitution, the future financing of the eu is open. the community is already overstretched institutionally with 25 members and the democratic deficit is becoming apparent. if the eu itself were to apply for membership of the european union, it would be rejected on the grounds that this is not democracy. in this context, negotiations are now to be opened with turkey, and both sides have no prospect of union for the foreseeable future. the two parties must therefore be measured against the same standards, as the copenhagen criteria require. the negotiations must be conducted in an open and non-time-pressured manner. it's in both our interests. the need for reform is on both sides, and the pressure of the negotiations is a great opportunity for both turkey and the european union. i thank you and especially the minister for europe for your attention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we made a decision here last december. the european parliament voted 402 to 216 in favour of opening accession negotiations with turkey. now, i cannot understand why some people seem to have not digested this and why the whole thing is being questioned again. what is the credibility of this parliament if you decide on something and then question it again? the other thing is that i would very much like to see the same vehemence with which we are advocating the recognition of cyprus by turkey extended to a part of the cypriot nation, namely the turkish part, for which we should also have a heart, by saying: let us put pressure on the cypriot government to finally bring about a reunification as envisaged under another plan. i think that unilateral pressure is unfair, because in the end it is also about a part of the nation, namely the turkish cypriots, who have really been deprived, who have not been given their due. the rights of these people must also be taken into account in parliament. the republic of cyprus is not only made up of greek cypriots, but also of turkish cypriots. and who in this parliament stands up for the rights of these people?
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i thank you for this opportunity to address parliament in response to what has been both a timely and an emotive debate. i would like to shall begin, however, by echoing the earlier remarks made by commissioner rehn in welcoming to parliament the bulgarian and romanian observers. i welcome also the timeliness of this debate and the genuine efforts of mr brok and other members of this parliament to ensure a broad base of support, so that the voice of the european parliament is genuinely heard before 3 october. i should also like to thank commissioner rehn for his contribution to the earlier discussions. the terms and substance of his contributions evidence the extent to which a common approach is being taken by the presidency and by the commission on the important issues facing us. i pay tribute to mr brok and his predecessor as rapporteur, and indeed to the leaders of all the political groupings we have heard from today, in setting out their views so clearly. i would like to take this opportunity to recognise the work of other members of the european parliament, for example mrs pack's work in relation to women's rights in turkey, which i think has been evidenced by both the experience and the expertise brought to our discussions and deliberations this morning. i ask parliament's forgiveness for not seeking to respond to every specific point that has been raised during the course of what has been a long but nonetheless illuminating debate. instead, let me try to address the main themes that were picked up on by a number of different speakers. i shall start with the general point alluded to by mr wurtz, which was that the presidency is steering the council to fulfil the mandate of the december european council's conclusions, which were then indeed reaffirmed by the june council. the decision essentially to open negotiations with turkey on 3 october has therefore already been taken. our job as the presidency is to ensure that the conditions are met and that the framework for doing so is agreed. in this context let me touch on the issue of croatia, which was alluded to by mr brok, mr poettering and indeed by mr schulz. turkey and croatia are of course separate issues. conditions have been set out for both and the council will make decisions independently on the basis of an assessment of those objective criteria. i am pleased, however, that in the case of both countries it is clear already that the anticipation of making further progress in relation to both countries' desire to be part of the european family has brought significant progress, as was recognised explicitly by mr duff in his contribution this morning. i shall also address some of the specific questions that were raised. concerns were raised about turkey's statement prior to 3 october. it is important to recognise specifically that concerns were raised in relation to the recognition of cyprus and the implementation of the aap. the council's position on both of these matters is clear, and indeed was set out in the declaration which i quoted in my introductory remarks. i will let commissioner rehn reply to the specific points relating to your letter to him, but the council's position on the need for full implementation, including the statement, has already been made clear. indeed, the need for monitoring is also set out. specifically in relation to the reforms that have already been undertaken, but also, more significantly, continue to need to be taken, i have noted very carefully the concerns expressed here this morning, whether in relation to the position of minorities, to the freedom of religion and expression or, indeed, more broadly on the issue of human rights. commissioner rehn has already commented on the specific issue of the case of orhan pamuk, the distinguished turkish writer. i would, however, respectfully remind parliament that the draft negotiating framework, and the overall reform process set out by the commission, are designed to address exactly those concerns. indeed, that is one of the reasons why both the commission and the council has been so keen to take forward the process of negotiation to ensure further progress in relation to the reforms. it is also worth reflecting at this point in our debate on the words of mrs bonino, who made clear that the european union process has already achieved a huge amount within turkey, notwithstanding the fact that there is much further progress to be made. one question left hanging in the air somewhat in some of the contributions has been to ask what the ultimate goal of the discussions and the process being taken forward is. again, the starting point in responding to that question is to recall the conclusions of the december council of 17 december 2004. let me quote directly from the conclusions: 'the shared goal of the negotiations is accession'. however, the statement also went on to say that 'these negotiations are an open-ended process, the outcome of which cannot be guaranteed beforehand'. so let us be very clear that the shared goal of negotiations was full accession, but, equally, the conditionality inherent in that statement was very clear. i have also taken note today of the concerns that have been expressed over the absorption capacity of the union. indeed, this is reflected in the commission's draft negotiating framework. some speakers referred to the need for a settlement in cyprus and this is, of course, an important and sensitive issue. however, i welcome the parliament's recognition of the importance of widespread support being garnered for the un process, and again that is reflected in the council's earlier declaration. the final point i want to touch on is the issue of the constitution. many have talked about it in relation to turkish accession. i would, however, respectfully remind parliament that there will be further opportunities for discussion on the european draft constitutional treaty. indeed, the june decision of the european council was to have a further rendezvous and revisit this issue in spring 2006. that does not remove the obligation on the council or the commission to continue to make progress on a range of areas concerning europe's future in the meantime. that is what we intend to do. i value the contributions made in relation to our thinking about turkish accession and particularly value the opportunity to have heard the views of meps at this particular stage, given the imminence of the decision and the process now being taken forward.
member of the commission. mr president, i compliment mr alexander, especially as regards the questions about the legal nature of the declaration. like him, i will skip the small talk and get straight down to business. honourable members have asked whether the commissioner can provide a written statement from the turkish government concerning the ratification process and the nature of the declaration. i take this question very seriously and i am willing to ask for details of the ratification process from my counterparts in the turkish government. we need to take into account that turkey has a parliamentary system – thank god, it is a parliamentary democracy. it is the turkish grand national assembly that will have to ratify the ankara protocol, not the government of turkey. i am sure that as parliamentarians you well understand the order of business and will agree that it would be a very delicate matter and indeed questionable for a commissioner to give guarantees on behalf of the european parliament. the key point that needs to be underlined again is that the declaration made by the turkish government can in no way call into question turkey's obligations. the protocol has to be fully and properly implemented and the declaration does not in any way reduce the legal relevance of the turkish signature of the protocol. there is also a very strong revision clause in the eu declaration that the member states adopted last week, which refers to 2006. moreover, we have all the necessary means to make sure that full implementation takes place, for otherwise there will be direct consequences for the progress of negotiations. there is a very clear and strong conditionality – and please let us not underestimate the intelligence of turks. they know that in order to make progress in the negotiations they must fully implement the protocol, as they have signed it and will soon ratify it. concerning the prospect of new peace processes in cyprus, which was referred to in many speeches, the european union remains fully committed to our overall objective, which is the reunification of cyprus. in that context, i would like to recall the declaration by the eu and member states, which agreed last week, and i quote, 'on the importance of supporting the efforts of the united nations secretary-general to bring about a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem'. the commission remains ready to assist the united nations wherever possible, as proactively as we have done, and we will continue this work with determination in the future. however, let us be frank and open here: the keys to the solution are in the hands of the two communities and it is high time that both communities engaged in a serious dialogue with each other, so that cyprus can become a member state like all others, united and in peace. both communities are keenly interested in a solution and they are best placed to address the critical issues. certainly, we also expect turkey to continue to work constructively towards a settlement and support the resumption of the un efforts. let us also recall what today's vote is all about. it is about concluding a procedure on the eu side, relating to a commitment that we have ourselves demanded, even insisted on, from turkey. now that we have achieved this, there are some on our side who say 'no thanks'. seriously, i cannot help comparing this to a rather strange situation on a football field. imagine that your team has worked very hard for 89 minutes to score a winning goal. finally the striker is alone in the box, he passes the goalkeeper and he is just about to put the ball into the empty goal when suddenly the coach shouts 'stop, turn round and bring the ball back'! maybe this makes sense to some but certainly not to me. to my mind it is rather like an own goal. moreover, it is difficult to understand why this house would want the customs union to apply only to germany but not to poland, to greece but not to cyprus. again, this may make sense to some but not to me. by voting for assent now, you will help to extend the customs union to all new member states of the european union. finally, and this is extremely important, i want cordially to ask honourable members, for the sake of europe, not to weaken our negotiating position by postponing assent to the protocol. instead, by voting for assent now, we will be giving the european union far greater credibility in its demand for rapid ratification by the turkish grand national assembly. that should be our objective. please let us keep this main target in mind and, for the sake of our credibility and for the sake of europe, let us vote in favour of assent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it was said earlier that the personal statement must be made at the end of the debate. we're at the end of our time here, and i'd like to make a personal statement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr cohn-bendit has accused those who oppose turkey's accession to the eu of riding a wave of racism and anti-islamism. i want to make it very clear that i believe that the muslim bosnians are europeans, that the muslim albanians are europeans, that our muslim fellow citizens in the eu are europeans, but that the christian ethiopians, for example, are not europeans. my concerns are based on the fact that turkey is simply not a european state. if you call this racist and anti-islamic, you are distorting the facts. this is a deliberate defamation which i wish to reject. mr cohn-bendit himself has made a slight distinction between europeans taken for granted and a step towards eurasia. that was actually a very clever approach. but he has destroyed it again when he deliberately began to smear those who are critical of the situation as racist. and i reject that! (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like to make a personal statement. the chairman of the pse group said in the debate that i had previously been in favour of full membership of turkey in the european union. it is and it never was. i want to make this clear. i have obtained the minutes of the debate of 13 december 1995. it was clearly all about a yes or no vote on the customs union. i fought against mr schulz for the customs union. he turned it down. what has been said here today is a clear distortion of the truth. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had asked for a personal statement on the debate on turkish policy following a comment made by mr langen, who was not very friendly in addressing me. but mr langen and i have had so many quarrels during our parliamentary term and have come to terms with each other afterwards that i can do without the personal statement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. love is the greatest thing we can achieve!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i can't wait to make a declaration of love. i'm happy if we respect each other. i would like to ask, on behalf of our group, pursuant to rule 170 (4) of our rules of procedure, to defer our approval of the additional protocol on the customs union, on the following grounds: the turkish government has accepted the additional protocol but at the same time refused to recognise the republic of cyprus, with which it intends to negotiate. at the same time, it states that turkish ports and airspace are not available to vessels and aircraft of a member state of the european union, namely cyprus. we consider this to be a contradiction in terms and politically totally unacceptable. if we were to give our consent to the customs protocol now, we would then no longer have the possibility of influencing the turkish government - contrary to what the chairman of the social democrats said this morning. i therefore ask the epp-ed group to postpone the vote on the additional protocol. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i do not share mr poettering's view. on the contrary, the resolution, which we are putting forward as a community resolution, makes it clear that we demand full implementation of all agreements concluded. at the same time, we have stated in this resolution that if the negotiations are not implemented, they will be suspended or even cancelled. the commissioner made that clear again this morning. i think we should stick to the contractual agreements we have made. this makes it all the easier for us to say on a very credible basis that if the other side does not keep its promise, the negotiations will be cancelled and not resumed. that is why we are in favour of voting today. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is an amendment which has been agreed with the other groups as well as with the council and the commission as a compromise which will be repeated in amendment no 785. i read: ... 'without prejudice to the implementing measures already adopted, on expiry of a period of two years following the adoption of the directive and on 1 april 2008 at the latest, the application of its provisions requiring the adoption of technical rules, amendments and decisions in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be suspended. the european parliament and the council, acting on a proposal from the commission, may renew the provisions concerned in accordance with the procedures laid down in article 251 of the treaty and, to that end, they shall review them before the expiry of the period or date referred to above.'
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the same will be true of amendment no 782. the beginning is: ... 'in the view of the european parliament'; to which should be added the words: 'the european parliament and the council should have the opportunity to evaluate the conferral of implementing powers on the commission within a determined ...'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is the same motion as that which was tabled earlier in amendment no 781, which i have already read. the next one corresponds to the second oral amendment, amendment no 778.
mr president, i would like to see amendments nos 32 and 138 voted on at all events, that the vote on amendment no 138 be brought forward to the vote on amendment no 32 and that the motion be amended to read: 'they shall transport the bicycle of the passenger in all trains, including cross-border and high-speed trains, possibly on payment of a charge'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today's vote was a massive blow to the council's nose on turkey. if negotiations with turkey were to begin next monday but not with croatia, then the citizens of the european union would have the impression that all 25 members of the council have collectively lost their minds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, give the green light to the european country of croatia, which meets all the conditions. secondly, if you are going to negotiate with turkey, it will be only if the negotiating framework sets out the objective of openness in the sense of a privileged partnership. if this is not possible, i must appeal to the member states to use unanimity and postpone the negotiations with turkey, as was wrongly done with croatia on 16 march, one day before 17 march, when the negotiations should have started.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations with turkey because i think it is irresponsible to start accession negotiations. turkey does not in any way fulfil the conditions for opening accession negotiations. there are rumors that torture, human rights violations and massive obstacles to the religious practice of christians continue to take place in turkey, to name just a few reasons. it is not understandable that the commission should act against its better judgment. the commissioner responsible, mr rehn, should resign before he does any more damage as the commissioner for enlargement. it is a massive sin against the idea of european unity. we should not be surprised if more and more citizens lose their confidence in the european institutions such as the parliament, the commission and the council and therefore vote against the constitution by a majority, as happened in the referendums in france and the netherlands. in rejecting the resolution on turkey, i, like my friend bernd posselt, have certainly acted in the interests of the vast majority of bavarian voters who want a privileged partnership with turkey but not full membership. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east.
in writing. the compromise resolution deals with the turkish-cypriot issue sufficiently and with a certain degree of clarity. i would have liked to have had clearer statements on democracy and human rights in turkey. amnesty international describes torture in turkey as continuing on a similarly bad scale, only different. conscientious objectors, such as mehmet tarhan, are punished with long prison terms. the kurdish areas are again the scene of fighting, police and military are everywhere, and state and non-state actors are committing human rights violations. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years. the geopolitics of the eu's leaders is a major reason for accession. a working paper prepared by the european commission to "make turkey's eu accession more plausible" states: "turkey is a strategically important country. the commission turkey's accession would help the eu to better secure energy supply routes.' the european union is also committed to the development of a common defence policy, and the eu is committed to the development of a common defence policy. i too want turkey to join the eu, but not in this way. the real situation of the people is clearly of little concern to the eu heads of state or government and the eu commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is important to emphasize that the epp group is also in favour of alternative energies, in favour of promoting alternative energies, but also with the aim of making these energies competitive. it is not possible that they will remain in the state-subsidized stock for the long term. we must make these alternative energies competitive. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this debate, but that it should be a matter of the member states. this is a discussion about the need for government intervention, and it is also a discussion that basically forgets that the price of oil in a competitive economy is still determined by the market. first of all, this is a market price. we have to accept that. we all know that this is ultimately also a problem of the refinery capacity which is too low at the moment. something's going to change here. but if countries in europe, such as the federal republic of germany, have a tax share of over 70% in petrol prices at the petrol station, then we as parliamentarians must appeal to the national governments to do something ad hoc here to give something back to the citizens, especially in the high tax countries, so that mobility in this working society is preserved. first of all, this is a political demand. you can't blame the markets and be responsible for 70% of the price. this is the wrong allocation of responsibility. we are therefore well advised to make it clear that the state should support alternative energy sources - in moderation - but that we should also rely on new technologies. there are a lot of options here, like hybrid drive and other things. but we should do so with moderation and reason and with less ideology.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are a number of important responses to the current oil crisis. but i am deeply convinced that the only long-term answer is to overcome our dependence on oil, an energy source that may be available for another 40 to 60 years, and that is vulnerable to crisis, that is becoming more expensive as it becomes scarce. so we see that the alternatives are obvious. the first priority must be to save energy. studies show that we can save 14% in transport and 20% in buildings without any loss of comfort. i have a very urgent request to the presidency. i hope very much, mr minister, that in this difficult situation we will succeed in reaching a reasonable and viable compromise for the energy efficiency and energy services directive. we have done a lot in the european union in the field of renewable energy, but we still have shortcomings. almost half of the energy produced is used for heat production, much of it from oil. and here, in particular, we see that market penetration is not happening in the way that it could be happening in terms of potential. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i join those who have expressed their gratitude and appreciation to commissioner piebalgs for his active and coherent strategy. i would like to speak now about renewable energy, not because i believe that it is the only solution to the problem, but because i have a special responsibility as the shadow rapporteur for my group. it's true: renewable energy is part of the answer to high oil prices. but i also think it is important that we in europe and in the member states have not always set the right priorities in the field of renewable energy. we have a policy and activities in the electricity sector. we have a little less activity in the biofuels sector. but we do not have a coherent european strategy to promote renewable energy in heating and cooling, even though this is the area where the greatest dependence is on oil and gas. we know why this is so, because many who support renewable energy see it as just the opposite of nuclear energy. but i wonder if it's really the most important thing to get out of nuclear power. is it not more important to reduce our dependence on oil and gas and to manage the effects of global climate change as best we can? now you can say that you should do one thing and not do the other. but that is not so easy when you have limited resources. for example, in germany we have a renewable energy law where we invest 50 cents per kilowatt hour in photovoltaics. in the next few years, we will be investing a cumulative 3 billion euros in this area. the money is missing from somewhere else, of course. we must realise that if we invest one euro in heating and cooling, for example, in heating based on biomass, heat pumps or solar thermal energy, we save 45 times as much co2 and 45 times as much fossil fuel with the one euro invested. that's why it's time for a new set of priorities.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, we europeans are united in the belief that the world needs the united nations, and more than that, the world needs a strong united nations. the un has rarely been the focus of such public attention in its 60-year history, and rarely has there been a greater need for reform than this year. the final document is not satisfactory. nevertheless, my group, the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, believes that progress must be recognised and that what has not been achieved must be discussed more intensively than before. this glass is half full. the eu now has the task of helping to fill it in its entirety. the european parliament in particular must see the outcome of the summit as an opportunity. we see parliament as one of the architects of the further reform process. we as parliamentarians hold the keys to securing and strengthening the acceptance of the un among the population, to successfully advancing the democratization of the organisation and, above all, to ensuring that millions of people have access to food, clean water and improved health services. we must implement the millennium development goals. the progress made by the member states in this area is unsatisfactory. the summit's final document does not contain a precise timetable binding the states to their commitments. this is disappointing. on the other hand, it says - and glenys kinnock has mentioned it - that the unexpected commitment of the united states to the millennium development goals in this clarity is a very positive development on which we must build. i think, glenys, we should take our american friends at their word. my group is very positive about the creation of a peacebuilding commission. this is a decision that will strengthen the un's profile in crisis regions. the eu's role must be to provide valuable assistance in their establishment and operation. the eu is one of the world's greatest peacebuilders, as a donor, a supporter and a political force. this is something that needs to be made much clearer in the un system than it has been in the past. we are glad to be in agreement with you, commissioner. the first step, on which i would also like to have the commission and the council's opinion, would be to bring together the representations of the council and the commission in new york and at the other un sites. the alde group sees another important function in the promotion of democracy. the establishment of a democracy fund is an important step in the right direction, and further measures could include the establishment of a caucus of democracies within the general assembly. we must also consider a parliamentary assembly. it is clear that the reform of the un is not complete and must be continued in a consistent manner. this is particularly true of the security council. the proposals of kofi annan are well known. it is now up to the general assembly to decide on one by the end of this year. we also maintain the vision of a permanent seat for the european union as soon as the political, legal and constitutional conditions are in place. we will stress this again in our resolution which we shall be voting on tomorrow. we cannot afford to let the un act from the second row. she needs to be the center of attention. it is the only institution capable of meeting the challenges of our time multilaterally and on a global scale. the european parliament must support them in this, because we need a strong united nations. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must be clear: the united nations has just missed the historic opportunity for systematic reform here. the result is disappointing and the good work done by kofi annan has not been translated into real success. the reform has failed in four key areas. there is no reform of the security council that really leads to regional representation. there is no concept of disarmament and against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the creation of a un environmental organization has not been successful. i would add that, particularly in the face of the challenges of international climate policy, this is a very serious failure. we have no real instrument for the policy of the united nations here. the economic and social council has also failed to develop, particularly in the face of the major challenges we face in development policy. that is why the saying applies today: after the reform is before the reform. but there are also advances that we can build on. it is good that there is a un human rights council, that it is being set up, even if its composition is not yet clear. it is good that the budget for the high commissioner for human rights is being doubled. it is good that there will be a peacebuilding commission. it is good that the millennium development goals have been reaffirmed and that various action programmes and solidarity funds are being set up. in this context, the european union faces a specific challenge. i would therefore ask the council and the commission to present a precise action plan on how the european union intends to contribute financially and organizationally to the implementation of these measures. the question now is whether we can give the united nations concrete material support after the summit of the big words.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the un summit has not failed, but i agree with many colleagues that it has been disappointing. the european union is not the only one to have a policy of reducing poverty. it is hoped that the general assembly will make further progress in the coming months. the greatest disappointment for me is the lack of commitment to disarmament in the world. humanity spends a trillion euros a year on armaments and 60 billion euros on development aid. if someone from a foreign star looked at this earth, he would say that this humanity is destroying itself and does not want to survive. the question for the commission and the council is: what are the europeans doing to ensure that an initiative is taken to make up for this lack of disarmament, especially of weapons of mass destruction? i also regret that the reform of the un bodies has almost failed. the secretary general has hardly been reinforced. the general assembly has not been able to reform itself, and the security council is a complete anachronism. the amazing thing here is that the african union seems to be doing better than the european union. the 53 african states had specific ideas about who should sit on the security council from that continent. the europeans are not in agreement on this and may have contributed to the failure to enlarge the security council. the question therefore to the commission and the council is: what are the europeans doing to remedy this deficiency? my last point: democratization of the un. after 60 years, it cannot be left to governments alone. we need a parliamentary component. the interparliamentary union is a good thing, but it is not enough. a parliamentary assembly is needed at some point because the union's civil society is better represented in the un than the citizens' chambers, and this cannot continue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a debate going on here about how full the glass is. i can only say frankly that there is almost nothing in the glass, there is nothing to drink, and that should be generally accepted here. this un summit has failed utterly. what was planned was not achieved. this is very clearly seen in the change in the final resolution, when you look at how it started and how it now ends up with a very thin paper. i am glad that it was not adopted on one point. it concerns what was proposed by the high-level group which presented a report to mr kofi annan. it wanted to establish a concept of preventive war for the united nations, and in doing so it would have destroyed the basic idea of the united nations. this concept of preventive warfare is no longer concrete, but only hinted at in paragraph 92. i'm very glad that's no longer the case. mrs ferrero-waldner, if you say that the kosovo war was the reason for this, then that is precisely the problem: it was a breach of international law, and that is exactly what we do not want. international law should be respected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had asked the commission and the council for an opinion on when parliament can expect the commission and council representations to be brought together in new york and at the other united nations sites, so that we have better coherence in the union's representation at the united nations. i would be grateful if the council and the commission would take this into account.
president-in-office of the council. i shall resist the very considerable opportunity that has been presented to me to discuss the inconsistencies inherent in ukip's position and simply say that i fully recognise, not least on the basis of the tireless work in scotland of the honourable lady who asked the question, that fisheries partnership agreements can have a very important role to play. it is a clear example of where working independently rather than in partnership offers no future either to europe or, i would suggest, to fish stocks.
president-in-office of the council. the future of serbia and montenegro is within the european family, as i was indeed able to communicate when i recently visited the western balkans and had the opportunity to meet with the authorities in that country. it follows that the participation of all ethnic groups in the democratic process is crucial to that country moving towards a european future. however, we do not recognise that the situation in serbia is as bleak as the question implies. while the political situations in kosovo and serbia are not directly analogous, we judge that there are opportunities for minorities in serbia to enjoy full involvement in parliamentary politics. one of the first measures taken by the new serbian parliament in early 2004 was to abolish the threshold for parliamentary representation – that is, 5% – in the case of parties representing ethnic minorities. therefore at future general elections minorities are also likely to be represented in the parliament. the serbian local election law stipulates a 3% threshold but interethnic relation councils are also set up in ethnically mixed municipalities and comprise members of all ethnic communities, accounting for more than 1% of the municipal population. in addition, questions concerning national minorities can be brought to the attention of the central government of serbia, notably through the national council of ethnic minorities, established in 2004. that is a forum in which all relevant issues for minorities can be discussed. we hope to open stabilisation and association agreement negotiations with serbia and montenegro during our presidency. to conclude this agreement belgrade will need to meet a range of conditions set down by the european union. to eventually join the european union belgrade will need to have met all the copenhagen political criteria. the honourable member is right to highlight the need for democratic standards in serbia to be at the heart of this process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you for that very good and very specific answer. i would add that there is no parliamentary representation in the preshevo valley, the albanian-inhabited part of southern serbia, whereas in kosovo, at least in theory - they are not yet taken - there are guaranteed seats for the serbian minority. can you imagine that in the context of a kosovo solution, we would seek a bilateral arrangement - so that borders do not have to be changed, we do not want to change borders - which gives albanians in serbia the same rights as serbs in kosovo?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we are united in our criticism of the worrying developments in our neighbour. we are witnessing the systematic installation of a dictatorship which does not respect human rights and democracy. we are even in agreement with the commission and the council. we must finally act and use all the means at our disposal to promote democracy and pluralism in belarus. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. but i am not satisfied with what has happened so far. the polish-baltic-ukrainian initiative is being left in the dust by the commission. there is a very tangled threat on the eastern border, tensions between the neighboring states, and there is no unified foreign policy. civil society, which is the only democratic potential and hope in this country, is not sufficiently supported. the commissioner has not yet proposed a solution. the repertoire of diplomatic protests is far from exhausted. the sanctions should be much more differentiated and targeted. talking about it isn't enough. civil society needs to be supported with much more money. i urge you to develop a specific programme and to sit down quickly with the council to take really coherent political, financial and economic measures so that we can have a start on democracy in belarus in 2006.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this house has dealt with belarus on several occasions in the past. but it was a small minority who did this - mrs schroedter, mr gahler and a few others. i am glad that we are now taking a hard look at this important question. we owe this to our polish colleagues, to whom i would like to express my gratitude. it shows that history has an impact. there have been negative, nationalistic periods in history, but there have also been positive examples of coexistence. in the middle ages, the coexistence of poles, lithuanians and belarusians in a federation was one such example. this was a small europe, and this europe is now having an impact, as our polish colleagues and all of us are working not only for the polish minority in belarus, but for the belarusian people as a whole, who are suffering massively from oppression and who are unfortunately also threatened by attempts to restore the soviet union in one form or another. such attempts are absurd and doomed to failure, but these mind games are known to exist further east. it is therefore in the fundamental interest of the european union to support our neighbour belarus and its people and civil society more massively than before and, above all, to ensure that media freedom is upheld. i would also like to express a clear criticism of the deutsche welle, which broadcasts its programmes in russian to this important european country, in other words, in the language of the colonial power which has long oppressed belarus and is partly responsible for the conditions prevailing there today. the belarusian people deserve respect as a unique european culture, and this should be reflected in the media that we as the european union promote. it is an important part of the community of european peoples.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i congratulate mr menéndez del valle on a balanced and excellent report. the strategic partnership, which was reaffirmed in delhi at the beginning of september, also includes commitments. i think it is a contradiction if the commission cuts the appropriation for india instead of increasing it. it doesn't seem to fit. i also believe that the eu needs to become more visible in india. the visit of the british prime minister was often confusing: is he the president of the council of the eu or is he the prime minister of a member state? we must resolve this confusion. we must make it clear that we are speaking on behalf of the eu and not just one member state. the economy has been mentioned. it is a foundation of this strategic partnership. i too believe that the trade is far from exhausted. we need to cut red tape, we need to cut barriers and we need to increase the infrastructure, the ports and the airports. but we also need fair trade - this has been said here many times - recognition of workers' rights, the abolition of child labour, respect for intellectual property. that is part of it, and i think the ukip colleague is completely wrong: india is investing in europe. it will also create thousands of jobs here in europe. for example, a newly established it company in northern ireland employs 600 people. this is an exchange, not a one-way street. on political issues, i would like india to join multilateralism, such as recognition of the international criminal court, accession to the un convention against torture. i think both sides have a lot of work to do.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr claude turmes, for his report. the epp-ed group is in favour of renewable energy, but we had to point out to claude turmes in some places that we need to be more realistic about this. in this sense we have already been partially successful in the vote in committee. the report contains many positive points. the issue of biomass was very important to us, and i am glad that we were able to include a whole chapter in it. we want to see a long-term approximation of european support systems in the electricity sector. we know that this is not going to happen overnight. but in the long term we must also create a european single market with all the advantages, among others - and this is another important point for us - in order to reduce costs. the money is limited, and we need to do as much as we can with the money we have. we must therefore set up support systems to reduce costs. we have some problems with the draft report which has just been tabled. for example, we find the 25% target in 2020 problematic and have tabled amendments to it. we believe that wind energy should not only be mentioned positively, but that the problems of grid stability and the problems of the population must be taken into account. we believe that the heating and cooling sector must be tackled even more intensively than the report does, because there is a lot that can be done with a little money: a lot of reduction in fossil fuels and a lot of reduction in co2. these are the reasons why we want to promote renewable energy: we want to reduce dependence on oil and gas, and we want to get the climate problem under control. i therefore ask for support for the amendments tabled by the epp-ed group. but i leave no doubt that we must work together for renewable energy in europe.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr claude turmes, very warmly. thank you for the excellent report and for the excellent cooperation. i am very confident that, despite the few critical words of mr liese, the report will be adopted by a large majority tomorrow. the current oil crisis in particular is making it increasingly clear that finite sources of energy must be replaced by constantly renewable sources. in recent years, we have launched a successful strategy in the eu to develop renewable energy, including the setting of legal targets for electricity from biofuels, for example. we have achieved market penetration and have thus made an important contribution to climate protection. with 300 000 jobs and an annual turnover of around 15 billion euros, it is also an important contribution to the lisbon strategy. but the effort is not enough. the achievement of biofuel targets is far from sufficient this has been pointed out and a number of member states need to be strongly advised by the commission to meet the electricity targets. bureaucratic barriers, network capacity problems, inadequate funding systems are among other obstacles to change. because one thing i haven't given up on is that we can double that to 12% in 2010. but it is also very important that we close the legislative gap in the field of heating and cooling. this means that we need clear legal requirements with clear objectives to create incentives for activities in the member states and to exploit this area as it can be exploited with the very high potential of biomass, solar thermal and geothermal energy. so this is a very important message to the commission to take action in this area and to provide us with the appropriate models.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to make some brief remarks. first, i can assure you that the commission will do everything within its legal powers to implement the existing directives. second, there has been enough evidence given today about the necessity for a directive using renewables in heating and cooling. the arguments in favour of that are very strong. i would also like to mention that it is extremely important that the committees on the environment and agriculture were consulted but, if the objective of renewables is to be successful, then other committees should also take these questions on board. as long as it is just the committee on energy, the goals will not be achieved. it is a much broader issue – the committee responsible for taxation questions and other committees, especially those that are concerned with economic development, should deal with these issues. the report on the situation of the internal market will be ready in november. then i will be glad to discuss with you the situation and challenges in different member states. definitely the situation of market liberalisation differs from one member state to another. i thank the rapporteur and everyone else who contributed to this very good report. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, this declaration covers answers to three questions posed by honourable members relating to the human rights situation of the romani in kosovo. generally, it would be fair to say that the return process for all minorities has thus far failed in kosovo, with only 13 000 returnees since 1999. furthermore it would be a fair assessment to say that the roma community is in a very disadvantaged position in kosovo. the commission is concerned that the forced returns of members of the roma community may be happening in a framework that does not ensure their safe and sustained reintegration into kosovo society after they return. meanwhile the commission supports the roma community where it can, notably through our assistance programmes to improve the overall sustainability of their living conditions. at the same time, we do not target forced returnees specifically. the second question concerns the issue of whether the principle of non-refoulement is being fully respected in the event of the forcible repatriation of roma refugees to kosovo. it is not within the commission's remit to establish whether the principle of non-refoulement is fully respected or not. the ultimate administrative responsibility falls to the united nations interim administration mission in kosovo, unmik, as well as to the european union member states that have decided to forcibly return members of the roma community to kosovo. meanwhile in march 2005 the unhcr, the united nations high commissioner for refugees, assessed that returns should be considered unsafe for kosovo serbs and kosovo roma, as well as kosovo albanians where they are in a minority situation. returns for ashkali, egyptians as well as gorani and bosniak people are considered safer. as far as the commission is aware, the agreement between unmik and the german government on forced returns concerns the ashkali and egyptian minorities only, and not the roma and other minority groups. thirdly, the question on roma in kosovo in general. all progress reports contain a chapter on the political situation and the criteria as laid down by the copenhagen european council in june 1993. this chapter contains a section on minorities and minority protection in candidate and potential candidate countries, including the western balkan countries. this year's progress report on kosovo will be no exception and thus provides an assessment of the situation of minorities, including roma. this issue will also be regularly monitored and addressed in future progress reports and in the commission's political dialogue with kosovo. of course we will very carefully study what ambassador kia eide will present in his standard report on kosovo, which is due in a few weeks. this will concern the implementation of the decentralisation measures and the critical issue of minority protection. that report will be indispensable when it comes to determining the likely start of the status talks on kosovo in the course of this autumn.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. we have differences of opinion on many issues, but i hope that we will at least be able to reach some consensus on the issue of minority rights. you, commissioner, come from a country which has an exemplary minority system for the swedish minority in finland. we had a colleague in this house who shares your name and is a member of that minority. it is high time that we in the european union develop uniform standards on minorities, not only within the eu - there are no minority standards at all, that is admittedly a problem - but also in our external relations with the candidate countries and the associated countries. we cannot pick and choose this or that minority in this or that country, but we should really try to reach a common ground. i believe that the constitution of kosovo, which president rugova had developed in secret, contained exemplary minority rights. then came the mass expulsion of albanians in 1999, and since then the wounds of war have been bleeding. the most difficult chapter, of course, is the return of displaced persons a few years after such a war. but we should start with the right to vote. the right to vote is maintained and there are reserved seats for minorities in the kosovo parliament. let me ask you this: what are you doing, and what is the eu doing, to ensure that all minorities also take their rightful seats in the kosovo parliament? secondly, do you know that in neighbouring serbia there are no seats at all for minorities? what are you going to do to ensure that the same standards of electoral law as those applied in kosovo, where minorities are disproportionately represented in parliament, are also applied to the serbian parliament, which, by virtue of its 5% clause and because serbia is an electoral constituency, has no minority seats at all? there's a big difference. what do you think will be the impact of the status issue, which must be resolved in the light of these problems?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2005 and on the draft budget for the following year. in the 'tv news' category, a report on forced returns of asylum seekers and refugees at dawn was awarded. a harsh reality for thousands of ashkali/egyptians who are basically part of the roma family, and other kosovars who have often lived in germany or other european countries for more than ten years, and whose children were born and socialized there. in kosovo, unfortunately, you will not find the most basic conditions for a new start in life. their homes have been destroyed, and the unemployment rate is about 60%. free access to education, especially for minorities, is not guaranteed. i think that's irresponsible. commissioner, please do your best to discourage member states from forcing people back or at least to urge increased financial support. this also applies to the already mentioned unbearable situation of the approximately 700 roma living in camps in mitrovica north, for whom there are no sufficient funds available for resettlement. this violates basic human rights.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr vatanen for his very good work. the commission will take stock of the third action programme for road safety in the coming months and mr vatanen's report, which is complete and balanced, will help to feed the thinking required of the commission in preparing this mid-term review. this report shows the need for joint initiatives at european level. the european union had already set itself, as a follow-up to the 2001 white paper on european transport policy, a target of reducing the number of road deaths by 50% by 2010 in the then 15 member states. the aim was to mobilise each country within its national competence. the results are noticeable. today, in the enlarged union, some member states have made remarkable progress in implementing credible and dissuasive control and sanction policies. but for others, evolution is more modest and shows that there is still a lot of work to be done. it must be acknowledged that the union's policy on road safety has remained embryonic for too long, because of the principle of subsidiarity. remember the debate on the establishment of a limit for blood alcohol levels which was unsuccessful. and the current difficulties in getting some member states to adopt the revised directive on driving licences, which is essential to prevent fraud, are also evidence of this. without prejudging the mid-term review which the commission will shortly publish, the ari vatanen report deserves to be noted on three points. first, it is necessary to ensure that the essential rules are respected, whether it be speed limits, blood alcohol levels or the compulsory use of seat belts. at present, however, action by the member states against drivers who have committed offences is limited, as there is no crossborder cooperation. i am particularly grateful to ari vatanen for advocating much closer cooperation between member states in the control and prosecution of crime. i would point out that the commission intends to launch an initiative next year to improve the organization of crossborder prosecutions. the second observation is the improvement of infrastructure. progress is possible everywhere and in some member states considerable efforts are needed. the european union, through its co-financing under the structural funds, is already contributing to the construction of safer and more modern infrastructures. a legislative instrument, as ari vatanen has mentioned, could be needed to make impact assessments, audits, road safety inspections, including black spot treatment, more systematic. thirdly, technological innovation in vehicles is a crucial element for road safety. a dialogue has been initiated between the commission and the european automobile industry. this is the cars 21 initiative, under which your committee on the internal market and consumer protection is organising a parliamentary forum in the near future. the technical standards needed to enable these innovations play an important role, but, as mr vatanen points out, the costs and benefits must be well known before these innovations can be generalized. it is in this spirit that the commission is currently assessing the appropriateness of new initiatives to extend the installation of mirrors to avoid blind spots and the ignition of daytime running lights. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would remind you that opinion polls show that european citizens place road safety at the top of their concerns, echoing what mr ari vatanen has explained to us very well, by imagining his advocacy with personal memories, which are not without emotion. the european union cannot remain silent in the face of this concern of the citizens. of course, subsidiarity must be taken into account. but in view of the increase in international traffic on the transeuropean networks, that is to say the number of foreign drivers on the main routes of each country, it is inevitable to ask whether the limits currently set for the union's action are the right ones and whether we should, in the name of subsidiarity, simply leave the member states alone in dealing with this scourge. in order to achieve our collective objective of reducing the number of people killed on the roads by 2010, beyond the initiatives i have mentioned, the exchange of good practice, the initial thinking must be as open as possible, and in particular focus on the adoption of targeted measures for professional drivers, for young drivers who are particularly affected by accidents. so ari vatanen's report comes at the right time. i thank him very much for his very open reflection on the whole problem and i will listen carefully, mr president, to the comments of the members of parliament, who i know are concerned about advancing this great cause of road safety.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not imagine it is december 31st and the news ticker says: 50,000 people killed in europe, several million seriously injured. what a fright, what a shout this information must have caused! but the people are indifferent, unmoved. was the report wrong? i'm not sure. but it was only the european union's statistical victims of road accidents that year. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. don't worry about it. no member of this house is thinking of banning vehicles. the only thing that needs to improve is the way we deal with them. i would like to thank and congratulate mr vatanen on his excellent report. it has succeeded in showing the complexity and interplay of hazard potentials on our roads, so that the european commission and the member states alike can be called upon to do more to achieve safety on europe's roads. we urge the commission to help speed up the implementation of the action programme and encourage it to develop a long-term approach to road safety, going well beyond 2010, based on the zero vision, i.e. to avoid all road fatalities. i welcome the integrated approach adopted, which takes account of all three components of road transport: road users, drivers and pedestrians, the vehicles themselves, but also infrastructure such as roads and tunnels. a vehicle can be equipped with the latest technologies such as esp, driver assistant systems, intelligent speed adaptation or emergency calling systems without meaningful interaction with the acting driver, there is no safety.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by congratulating the commission on having brought the textile negotiations to a positive conclusion. we know how complicated and difficult this has been, and we would like to express our congratulations on behalf of our group. i very much regret that the council is not present at this debate. we have just seen how necessary it is for the member states to act in a coherent way, and i find it extremely unfortunate that - i would like the council to be informed that we do not welcome this - that it is not present at this debate. i would like to return to some of the points that mrs saïfi has already raised. the safeguard measures were introduced in the context of the wto negotiations, which shows how cleverly the commission and the member states, as well as the committee responsible in parliament, negotiated at the time. we have always stressed the need for this in parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you think that the safeguard measures as envisaged in the wto negotiations and accepted by china are sufficient in the face of the crisis? do you think that the safeguards might need to be reviewed and that there might be a change? i would be grateful if you would also, in your reply, which you can give in writing, assess the role of the member states in this crisis and make suggestions as to what needs to be changed in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you said that china has already become a global political and economic world power. this clearly shows that many of the negotiations we have had in the past in the wto and in other international agreements are presenting us with a new challenge. because we are dealing with great world powers now, that is china, that is india in other areas with the software industry, that is brazil in the sugar sector. what do you think the future challenges for the european union will be in view of this situation? you mentioned that companies can compete, you mentioned that we are the second largest exporter. my question to my group is: do you think that is enough? do we need to do more, especially for the medium-sized enterprises? do you think that the aid measures we give to some companies - many companies do outsource - are sufficient? or would you, as the commission, suggest that we need more controls to control this properly? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the textile products it produces. i'll finish by thanking you again, and i look forward to your reply.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the textile industry is very wage and labour intensive. it is characterised by medium-sized enterprises and has successfully undergone a wide range of structural changes in europe over the last thirty years. it's not like we're at the beginning. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. they suffer the most. this is also true of turkey, our customs union partner. it would be completely wrong to insist on new subsidies unilaterally in the european union at this time. it is necessary - the commissioner has rightly said this - to rely on innovation, on efficient production. the commission's task is, of course, to enforce the standards internationally and to help to ensure a level playing field. i cannot unfortunately join in the praise that the commission did everything right in 2005. she waited too long. the high-level group of experts has been consoling us all along. it was only half-hearted, not knowing that there were imports waiting in the ports. the commission's praise is therefore very limited. but i also want to make it clear that the question we are discussing today has two sides. it is also about consumer prices. it is not to be denied that our consumers in the european union are happy to be able to buy textiles at low prices. the two largest european groups, h&m and zara, enjoy enormous popularity among consumers. this is also linked to the fact that the international division of labour cannot be stopped in such a labour-intensive area. but it can be accompanied by the commission, with reasonable conditions, better than in the past, especially this year. it is my call on the commissioner to react earlier and more decisively, to ensure fair conditions and not to invent new subsidy programmes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european textile sector is in crisis. "it's china's fault!" they say. we must close the market again, demands the left in parliament in particular. the committee on regional development calls for new support programmes for the european textile industry. if this is all we can think of in the age of globalisation, then the industry in europe is indeed in a very bad way. fortunately, the european textile and clothing industry is much more advanced than politics, because companies have been facing global competition for decades. the companies have long strengthened their competitive centres such as research, sales and finishing in the european union, while building up subcontracting structures in the far east, especially in china. the european textile industry has not received any subsidies for this structural change. in the dutch-german border area, for example, more than 100 000 jobs have been lost as a result. nevertheless, unemployment in the regions concerned is now well below average. this is because there were no subsidies to sustain the structure. this is because the european union has promoted structural change outside the textile industry, in technology centres and in land rehabilitation. you know the retex programme from the past. new aid programmes specifically to support the textile industry are the wrong way. the companies which have been shrinking in europe would not understand that they would now have to compete with their neighbours, who were suddenly subsidised, as a sort of 'reward'. instead of distorting competition by means of subsidies, we must create the conditions for this. these include facilitating patent protection, strictly pursuing product and trademark piracy, and expanding research capacity, particularly in the fields of nanotechnology, new materials and production processes. we must help the regions concerned by means of an active structural policy, and not by delaying structural change through subsidies to firms.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in the last few weeks we have been dealing with this subject in a very serious and collegial way. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other members for this. china joined the wto in 2001. this means new rights, but also new duties. china is already claiming all the rights, but it is not fulfilling its obligations in many respects. free market access for foreign companies is by no means granted. the compulsion to cooperate with chinese companies is clearly contrary to the spirit of the wto. the effects of this constraint are particularly serious, since intellectual property, patents and copyright protection in china today are not protected in any way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission must give much greater importance to this issue in the future. the commission must speak to the chinese much more clearly than it has so far. we cannot go on as we are. i would ask you to tell commissioner mandelson that. there are many other shortcomings: the currency is still not released, china is not a democratic market economy, china's public procurement system is completely opaque, protective tariffs are circumvented with government approval. the social question is not answered, workers have almost no participation rights, there is no freedom to form strong unions, and pollution is enormous. this is where china needs to improve, and this is what we call on china to do in our resolution. only if china adheres to this can we have a reasonable world trade. but we also have to do our homework. we must finally work seriously to ensure that europe remains a strong economy in the future. we need more entrepreneurial freedom and more entrepreneurial responsibility. we need more education and research and more willingness to face the challenges. the problem of china today is surely a great challenge for the future. but china also offers a great opportunity for creating new jobs in europe.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the subject is 'perspectives on trade relations' and caroline lucas asked for support for her report at the beginning. i'll give her that, too. if you look at the trend, both the european union and china are each other's second largest trading partners. what's changed? the trade surplus was on the european union's side a few years ago and is now on the chinese side. i am convinced that this will continue for decades to come. china has a few peculiarities: it has a huge internal market, but at the same time it has a large capacity for labour-intensive production, which it can use to its full potential because it has a very low wage level. and it also has high-tech manufacturing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. at the same time, if you look at the volume of trade, you can see that european industry has also benefited enormously because it has exported to china. we have discussed the situation in the textile sector today. the european union has previously earned billions from the export of textile machinery. if you look at the export statistics, you can see today how many steel plants are exported, how many pressing tools are exported for the automotive industry, how many aluminum melting furnaces are exported so that bicycles can be made. it is perfectly clear that in two or three years' time we will have the same problem in these industries. the draft constitutional treaty stated: an open market economy with free competition. the result we have now in the european union in textiles is a result of this. it is the result of an open, unprotected market economy with free competition. that is why the french have rejected him by a majority. i believe we need a social market economy with fair competition. this is different. if we are constantly talking about the fact that china produces products that do not meet european standards, then that is true. it would be terribly easy to say in the wto: if you do not comply with the ilo standards, you cannot export or your goods will not be imported. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the use of chemicals which are banned worldwide or in most countries is not allowed to export. we would then suddenly have competition for a higher standard, because then the producer would be forced to introduce better social standards, better environmental standards, better industrial standards. i think this is the right way, too. if you think that the european union can survive in the long term by saying that we must produce higher quality products, you are not aware that china has more highly qualified graduates from universities and colleges each year than the european union as a whole. this can't be the way. you should do what we always say, immediately. we need to invest a lot more in education. but if you look at the budgets of the member states, you see that this is not being done either.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is an addition which we had already included in the compromise negotiations, but which was omitted by an editorial mistake. it's about democracy in the united nations. i'm reading the text in english now. attached to part 20 is: 'reaffirms its belief that the un itself needs to considerably enhance democracy within its structures, and therefore underlines its call for a caucus of democracies within the un general assembly.'
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european issue seems to be far from the citizens, and the chinese issue scares people. the way that globalisation is spreading fear at the moment - at least that's the result not only of the referendums in france and the netherlands, but also of the elections in germany, which have shown that there is a little fear of reform. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt, and it is not a party to the gatt. we are an export-oriented economic entity and as europeans we need the chinese market. to do that, we need as much free trade as possible. but the european union is the only one that can help us against uncontrolled globalisation and possibly the loss of our own cultural identity. that's a good way to explain it. but we need protection. we europeans are not strategic enough, we are not clear enough, particularly on the subject of intellectual property. if this does not change soon, we will be sawing the branch on which we ourselves sit, and this will soon become clear, particularly in the relationship between europeans and the chinese. we must be stronger, clearer, more strategic in protecting intellectual property from the chinese, and we must do so as quickly as possible.
a writer. the commission is not the debate on nepal is timely, as the eu troika will be visiting the himalayan state early next week. king gyanendra's intervention on february 1 has done little to change the poverty. the main source of income, tourism, is dwindling. this year alone, almost 2,000 people have died. in the kapilvastu region, 30,000 residents were forced to flee their homes because of the fighting. despite calls from the eu and the international community for the king to restore basic democratic rights, politicians, student leaders and trade unionists are being detained. journalists are still prohibited from expressing their opinions freely. commissioners subordinate only to the king were appointed as chairmen of the village parliaments. the popularly elected district committee chairmen were replaced by envoys from the palace. on september 3, the maoists announced a three-month ceasefire, raising high hopes. i'm reporting doubts, as the rebels have already broken their own ceasefire twice in the past. however, every opportunity should be taken for bilateral and trilateral talks. the announcement of local elections in april 2006 is a positive sign. we in the epp-ed group believe it is important that elections to the national parliament should take place at the same time - not within two years - under international observation and, hopefully, with the participation of all parties. the political authorities could set a precedent for respect for human rights and finally lift the closure of the tibetan refugees welfare office in kathmandu. this unhcr partner institution is an irreplaceable refuge for tibetans who have been forced to flee their homes. the dalai lama's office must also be reopened. i wish the people of nepal, who have suffered for many years and are among the most sympathetic of peoples, the peace they have been longing for.
a writer. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if we are talking here today about the situation of national minorities in vojvodina, it is because we are concerned that the model of multiethnic coexistence of this part of serbia could be lost. we were in vojvodina earlier this year and talked to the people affected and politicians and also made suggestions on how to prevent and cure such regrettable incidents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but something has to happen in education, in the composition of the judiciary and the police to improve the situation. the large-scale immigration of serbs from kosovo and the croatian kraijna into formerly minority-dominated areas of vojvodina may be giving rise to increased attacks. it should therefore be the concern of all politicians in vojvodina and belgrade to condemn this, to urge their services to pay the utmost attention and, in the negotiations with serbia and montenegro which are about to begin, to ensure that european funds are used to help national minorities in particular to obtain their rights. the european parliament has increased the appropriations for serbia and montenegro by 8 million for this purpose. but i would also point out, commissioner and president, that the hungarian government has an obligation to the neighbouring country of serbia and montenegro to tackle these problems. i would like to say again that i want to revive the model region for the coexistence of national minorities, namely vojvodina, in the interests of serbia and in the interests of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr kohlíček has just said that we would not give money to serbia. there is a huge flow of funds into serbia. the minorities that are oppressed there are not only hungarians and croats, but unfortunately also czechs, germans, slovaks, poles and many other nations that have for centuries formed this thriving little europe that mr meijer described so eloquently earlier. that is why we are all in the same boat, so to speak, and we have an obligation as europeans to stand up for the many minorities in this country. this flourishing little europe is being systematically destroyed by a nationalist policy which, firstly, undermines autonomy and thus hits not only the minorities but also the long-established serbs of vojvodina, who have always opted for reform. the real aim of these measures is to weaken the reform-minded european serbs of vojvodina. secondly, there is a targeted settlement policy in the minority communities, which is designed to destroy the minority communities by electing a new mayor from the radical party overnight and suddenly increasing the population of the old settled population. the teacher training institutes - we have given money for them - are not set up with the lame excuse that the region cannot set up accounts. these are all unacceptable things. the attempt is made to bully the younger generation of minorities out of the country, to try to centralize the administration and to create a nationalist atmosphere in which minorities are fleeing. we do not want that, and that is why we must oppose it with a clear 'no'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to put a motion on the agenda. i ask, on behalf of the socialist group, that the commission make a statement this week on its position on the european social model, and we ask that this statement be made jointly by commissioner mccreevy and commission president barroso. i want to justify this: if our information is correct, commissioner mccreevy has done well in sweden in his ideas of the european social model. he said that the scandinavian model of the european welfare state was not what the commission considered compatible with the european single market. if that is the commission's view, it will be met with the strong opposition of the socialist group. (applause from the centre) i have just heard that it is also opposed by other groups, for example the greens, and we are very pleased about that. the scandinavian model is one of the basic principles on which we europeans can base our approach to the shaping of social europe. it is therefore absolutely unacceptable that the president of the commission should claim in every sitting here that he is a defender of the european social model, but then allow his commissioners to walk around the countryside and claim the opposite. you can't do that! (applause from the centre) that is why our group is asking the commission to make this statement. the summit on the european social model is just a few days away. if this is to be mr mccreevy's social model, then i say to you on behalf of the socialist group that the commission must dress warmly, because then there will be a battle over the direction of this european union, and that will not be the direction of mr mccreevy, you can be sure of that! we demand that the commission take a clear and swift position on this! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm a little surprised now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if a member of the commission makes a statement, it is the right of this parliament to hear that member of the commission, regardless of the assessment of what that member of the commission has said. we insist that clarity be brought to the matter here, and that is why our group has decided that commissioner mccreevy should make his position clear to the european parliament. on this basis, mr schulz, we are in favour of mr mccreevy coming, but i would also ask that we do not overdo things now. we do not think that this is a reason for the president of the commission to be here, but we would like to hear mr mccreevy first. if mr mccreevy is speaking in a way that is unacceptable to the house, then we can still ask the president of the commission to come here as a further step. but we are giving our consent only on the basis that commissioner mccreevy will first explain himself to the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. politics is a process, and we want to remain credible. we have just decided in the group of the european people's party that if the social democrats propose to invite mr mccreevy to the house, we shall accept it. but now a different request has been made here, namely to invite mr mccreevy and the president of the commission. we do not agree with that, so we will vote against it. if this request that the president of the commission should also come is rejected - we did not ask for mr mccreevy to come, but we want to remain credible - you can vote in a second decision on whether mr mccreevy should come alone. the way things have developed here, we owe our credibility to this way of decision-making.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is quite clear that if the socialist group's proposal to invite the president of the commission and mr mccreevy is rejected, then we will vote on whether we invite mr mccreevy alone. that is the voting situation.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, this morning and this summer has seen an unprecedented level of irregular migration across the mediterranean into the european union. the tragic loss of life of those drowned at sea and those seeking to cross the european union’s borders illegally has sharply brought into focus the problems we face in managing migration flows and tackling illegal immigration. although attention is focused on the recent events at the spanish-moroccan border in ceuta and melilla, malta and the italian island of lampedusa have also faced serious problems in recent months. the member states that border the mediterranean suffer a disproportionate burden in providing support for those in need of international protection whilst at the same time being responsible for intercepting and returning illegal immigrants who have no right to enter the european union. dealing with these issues in a firm but fair way which meets our international commitments is a shared concern for the european union. member states must shoulder this burden together. i do not propose in the course of our debate this afternoon to comment on the specific issues in spain, italy or malta. the commission sent a technical mission to ceuta and melilla earlier this week and is reporting on its findings to the justice and home affairs council today. i am sure that commissioner figeľ will speak in more detail on these matters in a moment or two. it is important that we realise that these events are the symptoms of a wider problem which requires a long-term solution. in recent years the european union has made substantial progress in adopting common minimum standards in asylum and immigration legislation and in working together on joint border operations now in the framework of the new european border agency, frontex. however, this has clearly not been enough. to respond to regular migration requires us to work more effectively with countries outside the european union. it is right that the european union is seeking to engage its collective weight to enhance cooperation on migration with source and transit countries. the commission and member states have made substantial technical and financial support available to third countries to help improve their management of migration flows. this is happening through european union funded programmes and through bilateral projects. there are real outcomes such as strengthened border controls and improved capacity to manage migration, including to protect refugees and displaced persons. in addition, the european union has stepped up the pace of its negotiation of readmission agreements, with an agreement now finalised with russia, an important transit country, and negotiations ongoing with morocco. this work needs to continue. last month, justice and interior ministers discussed migration issues with north africa and africa as a whole at their informal council in newcastle. they gave a strong endorsement to deeper european union engagement. this is a priority for the uk presidency and we will pursue a genuine partnership with africa on migration, including through euromed and the african union. an important example is the european union’s current work to enhance migration cooperation with libya on border management and asylum protection. the june council described this as ‘urgent and essential to avoid humanitarian disasters and prevent further loss of life’. since then there has been joint training with libya on border guards and work on improving on search and rescue techniques. equally important is cooperation with morocco, which has signed up to a joint paper with the spanish and french setting out measures to combat illegal immigration, including early warning and aid for victims of trafficking. ideas from this paper will be taken forward at the eu-euromed summit in november. finally, the european union must work together with countries of origin and transit to build capacity for refugee protection in these regions. here we are making concrete progress. the justice and home affairs council and the united nations high commissioner for refugees are today discussing the implementation of regional protection programmes. these regional protection programmes are designed to create the conditions for people to resettle and integrate closer to their regions of origin, or in countries that they transit through. the european union’s policy on migration and asylum needs to be carefully balanced and indeed carefully considered. migration is a complex issue and issues of border control, illegal immigration and the protection of refugees should not be confused. however, public support for managed migration and the welfare of migrants themselves depends on firm action against illegal immigration and the organised crime that all too often supports it. that is why the uk presidency feels it is important to push ahead with european union cooperation with third countries to avoid further human tragedies in the mediterranean and to establish managed migration that works in the interests of the european union and indeed of its neighbours.
member of the commission. mr president, today is a special day. this morning we had a meeting of the two commissions – the european union commission and the african union commission – and this issue was part of the complex agenda and strategy discussed between these two important organisations. the european commission recalls that since the tampere european council in 1999, the european union approach towards migration and asylum issues has been a balanced one. on the one hand it protects and enhances the right of those who reside lawfully or are in need of international protection, and on the other side it combats abuse and fights illegal immigration. the hague action plan confirmed and strengthened this approach to migration management. the set of measures adopted by the commission on 1 september in this field bodes well with this approach. a series of measures on integration of third-country nationals has been proposed which aims to improve the rights and status of legal migrants within the european union. at the same time it adopted a proposal on return which will contribute to a more effective fight against illegal immigration, while preserving full respect for human rights. this important course of action will also be accompanied by other initiatives dealing with the external dimension of our policies and the impact they may have on the development and protection capacities of third countries. later this year the commission intends to adopt a policy plan on legal migration which will constitute an important further step towards this balanced approach. the recent tragic events mentioned by some of you and by minister alexander which occurred in the towns of ceuta and melilla remind us once again how important it is to find a comprehensive and forward-looking response to migration issues. failing this, migration may well turn into a humanitarian tragedy, the consequences of which are difficult to predict. in the immediate aftermath of these events, vice-president frattini has decided to send a technical mission to morocco and to spain to get a first-hand assessment of the current migration situation and to explore ways in which the eu might assist the countries concerned in addressing this serious situation. at tomorrow’s hearing in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, vice-president frattini intends to provide more details on the findings of this technical mission. he has asked me to convey to you his sincere apologies for not being able to take part in this important debate today but, as many of you probably know, vice-president frattini is today taking part in the justice and home affairs council meeting in luxembourg. it is clear that it is urgent to do more to tackle the problem of illegal immigration. our aim should be to work with all countries concerned with a view to avoiding further loss of life and human suffering. we need to develop a comprehensive approach which includes a variety of instruments ranging from law enforcement to development assistance. fences alone are not the answer to this human tragedy. fences will not stop desperate people from risking their own lives in an attempt to enter the european union. the commission fully understands parliament’s concerns, as clearly indicated in the recent report on the reception conditions of irregular immigrants in lampedusa. it should be stressed that this problem does not concern italy alone. recent reports from non-governmental organisations and individual complaints have highlighted that several member states, not only those particularly affected because of their geographical situation, may face problems in providing adequate standards in the reception of asylum seekers. following the entry into force of the directive on minimum standards for the reception conditions of asylum seekers, which came into force on 6 february this year, the commission is currently examining the national measures for the transposition of this directive. vice-president frattini will provide more information tomorrow about the way in which the commission intends to proceed on this issue in particular. the commission is aware that parliament also intends to carry out several visits to other reception centres following the visit to lampedusa. the findings of the european parliament will be taken into due account in the report to be prepared by the commission.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the images from ceuta and melilla in recent days are shocking. but ceuta and melilla are only the tip of the iceberg. mayotte, malta and lampedusa are all experiencing visible flows of refugees, but the new member states in the east of the european union are also experiencing a steady increase in the number of illegal immigrants. the problem is that it's not in the public eye because the images are not as compressed and impressive. behind all these images are people, individual fates that affect us. the task of politics is not to allow certain problems to arise in the first place, but to remedy them as quickly as possible. we are now seeing the consequences of sins of omission and wrong premises. the solution cannot be to combat the symptoms alone, we must also address the causes. we will continue to be subject to high migratory pressures. steering this flow is one of the european union's most pressing tasks. the aim of a european immigration policy must be to manage legal migration, to provide humanitarian aid in accordance with the geneva refugee convention, and at the same time to prevent illegal migration. so a european migration regime must at the same time ensure the security of our external borders, the consistent fight against human trafficking and smuggling and a clear return policy. transporting people into the desert is inhuman, and it is a declaration of surrender to all that has not been settled. it is not helpful to let a few hundred or even a thousand illegal immigrants from ceuta and melilla into the eu and think that we have solved the problem. in africa, according to unhcr, 4.6 million people are on the run. the non-governmental organizations estimate that there are 20,000 people on the waiting list in morocco. unfortunately, there is no one solution to this problem. the eu must create clear rules on migration. at the same time, the eu must step up its assistance in countries of origin and transit. but the eu must also be as consistent in ensuring that the rules for crossing our external borders are respected. this includes a robust return policy and eu readmission agreements with countries of origin and transit. we must solve all these problems together. we cannot always choose the part that is appropriate and that is well received by the public. we must face up to this challenge! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say something about two different points which are related. on the one hand, all this shows how necessary it is that we arrive at common rules more quickly in the process of developing the european union as regards asylum, schengen and other areas of justice and home affairs. i believe that this is an urgent need to get to a more rapid action here. but in view of the situation, this is only a symptom-repair, because the severity is quite different - as various colleagues have said here. when the need is so great that you are willing to risk dying, the best remedies are useless unless you remove the cause. we must give these people a new perspective. we are dealing with a dying continent, and you can see the extent to which aids is spreading in some countries, how climate change has led to a lack of food, how we have not always given the right help, and not enough. the question of trading conditions, which are not always fair, is also part of this. we must find a completely new approach here, in depth and breadth, so that hope is given to the people there. but it must also be clear that we are not the only ones to blame, and that we are acting in the interests of good people. it is equally important to recognize that in these countries there are elites and dictatorships that threaten their own people with military means, that oppress them and that do not allow development. we must overcome the dictatorships in these countries which are highly anti-humanitarian towards their own people. all of this is necessary if we are to succeed here. we must also be able to speak out successfully in front of our own people, because this is not just a question of humanity. we can make it clear - as these events show - that this is also a matter of our own interests. our own interests are best served by giving people in their own country a chance to see their own perspective. this connection must be made clear, because it is an important lesson for a change. (applause from the centre) we have known all this since the 1970s, since the reports by edward heath, willy brandt and others. these reports already contain all this. it's not new, but we should have the strength to do it. (applause from the centre)
president-in-office of the council. mr president, today’s debate here in the european parliament is indeed timely. i know that a number of you follow developments in iran closely and i look forward to exchanging views with honourable members in the course of our discussion this afternoon. iran now has a new president and government. they will need to take important decisions about reform, foreign policy and iran’s nuclear programme. the choices they will make affect not just iran’s future in the region, but also some of europe’s vital interests. iran has vast potential: it has a young, well-educated population, two-thirds of whom are under the age of 30. many iranians are highly entrepreneurial. combined with iran’s immense natural resources – particularly oil and minerals – this should make for a vibrant economy and society if the new government can create a culture of opportunity based upon the rule of law. since 1998 the european union has pursued a policy of engagement with iran. our engagement is motivated by our strong desire to encourage progress in areas where iran’s policies are of serious concern. these include iran’s nuclear and ballistic missile programmes, its approach to terrorism and the middle east peace process, and human rights. i would like to concentrate on two of those issues today: human rights – because i know this is of great concern to many honourable members of this parliament – and the nuclear issue, because it has the potential, if not handled correctly, to overshadow the entirety of iran’s relationships with the international community, including the european union. let me therefore start with the latter. when iran’s concealment of crucial elements of its nuclear programme came to light in 2002 and 2003, the normal procedure should have been for the international atomic energy agency’s board of governors to report iran to the united nations security council. we decided to look for a way forward that would give iran an opportunity to dispel concerns and prove that the aims of its nuclear programme were entirely peaceful. the iaea board agreed to delay a report to the security council to give a european initiative a chance. at the heart of this initiative was a proposal that iran should restore confidence by suspending all uranium enrichment related and reprocessing activities while we discussed mutually acceptable, long-term arrangements. i should set out that no one – not the european union nor the wider international community – is trying to prevent iran from generating electricity by nuclear power, as iran has sometimes claimed. in the proposals we made to iran in august, the european side specifically offered support ‘for the development of a safe, economically viable and proliferation-proof civil nuclear power generation and research programme’. our main objective has always been to get iran to take the steps necessary to establish confidence that the intentions of its nuclear programme are exclusively peaceful. as honourable members are aware, in august iran decided to resume uranium-conversion activities, which the iaea board had asked it to suspend as an essential step. full suspension of all nuclear fuel cycle activities was also the basis of the agreement made in paris last november between iran and the european side, which has provided the framework for our discussion of long-term arrangements. we have urged iran to reinstate a full suspension and come back to talks on the basis of the paris agreement. the european union has made clear that we are willing to work with iran and, as part of a long-term agreement, to open the door to closer economic, political and social cooperation. the resolution passed by the iaea board of governors on 24 september makes clear the depth of international concern at iran’s decision. it remains to be seen how iran will respond. iran has an opportunity now to come into line with requests made by the iaea board. we hope it will choose that constructive path. i will now turn to human rights, an area in which the united kingdom presidency has had cause to be active in the last three months, because of serious and continuing violations. during the first term of office of president khatami from 1997 to 2001, there emerged a lively free press, a growing civil society and embryonic political parities. progress was halting but nonetheless real. regrettably, iran has lost ground in these areas over the last few years. i hope iran’s new government will devote renewed attention to this area. one of the areas in which iran is not living up to its international obligations is in the punishment of juvenile offenders. we continue to receive reports of children being sentenced to death and, in some horrendous instances, the sentences appear to have been carried out. sentencing people to death for crimes committed when under the age of 18 is a clear violation of iran’s obligations under international law. in january, the united nations committee on the rights of the child urged iran to end this practice. it is clearly imperative that it should happen. the european union has pressed iran to ensure that no such sentences are passed and to bring in without delay new legislation that will outlaw them. in recent months freedom of expression has also suffered. numerous human rights defenders, journalists and web bloggers have been arrested. i know that many honourable members are equally concerned about these issues. i want, therefore, to mention in particular the inspirational investigative journalist, human rights defender and now prisoner of conscience, akbar ganji, who remains in the jail where he has spent much of the last five years. the european union has called for his release on several occasions and i today hope the iranian authorities will now consider this as a priority. we are also concerned about religious freedom: many of iran’s religious minorities continue to suffer persecution and unfair treatment. we take the view that, by pursuing a policy of diplomatic engagement, we have a better chance of persuading iran to improve its human rights performance. we constantly monitor iran’s human rights situation and the presidency has recently made a number of urgent representations on cases requiring immediate intervention. european union member states remain ready to co-sponsor united nations general assembly resolutions on the human rights situation in iran, as appropriate. the eu-iran human rights dialogue enables the european union to work to improve the human rights situation in iran. we would like to see much greater commitment from iran to the dialogue and to ensuring that the dialogue results in real progress achieved on the ground. we are frankly disappointed that iran has not yet agreed dates for the next round and will continue to press it. iran’s attitude to human rights is damaging its reputation in the international community and i am sure that honourable members will agree with me when i say that the iranian government owes it to its people to make significant progress in this area. i think we all realise that this is a particularly crucial time for iran and its new government. for our part, we remain committed to seeking progress in our areas of concern through a policy of engagement. i know that honourable members will also continue to maintain a keen interest in human rights, the nuclear dossier and other elements of iran’s development in the important months and years ahead.
member of the commission. madam president, in the current climate it is inevitable that discussions about iran focus on its nuclear programme. this is one of the most serious security issues currently on the international agenda. the international community must be united if we are to find a satisfactory solution. this means working through the appropriate channels: first, the international atomic energy agency and, if and when necessary, the united nations security council. the development of the european union’s relations with iran is conditioned in large part by progress on that issue and by the approach of the international community. our relationship with iran, however, does not begin and end with the nuclear track. other tracks with iran should, in the commission’s view, continue to be pursued. in this respect, i wish to express my appreciation for the work undertaken by the delegation for relations with iran, under the dynamic chairwomanship of ms angelika beer. i hope that in the months ahead you will be in a position to develop contacts with your interlocutors from the iranian majlis, as well as with the widest possible spectrum of iranian society. people-to-people links are the best way to overcome prejudice, negative stereotypes and to foster mutual understanding. it would be, for instance, very important to support the further development of academic, cultural and artistic exchanges between europe and iran, two ancient beacons of civilisations which have a lot to offer to each other. on the official level, i first wish to draw your attention to two tracks: the comprehensive dialogue and the eu-iran dialogue on human rights. the comprehensive dialogue is the successor to the critical dialogue. it is a forum designed to allow both sides to discuss a broad range of issues in the economic, political and security fields in a frank and open manner. since the outset, the emphasis has been placed on our four long-standing issues of concern: weapons of mass destruction, terrorism, the middle east peace process and human rights. we believe that this dialogue, which has played a useful role in the past, should now be continued. the next session should be held in tehran. we are waiting for iran to make practical suggestions. as for the more specific bilateral dialogue on human rights which we set up in 2002, it provides a structured forum which allows formal discussion on individual cases, as well as on a comprehensive range of human rights issues of concern, on the basis of clear benchmarks. it also comprises a round table involving a wide range of civil society actors, as well as parliamentarians. it remains one of the means through which the eu can make a sustained contribution to fostering systemic change and improving the human rights situation on the ground. however, the latest session of the human rights dialogue took place more than a year ago. we sought to hold a session in september, but this proved impossible in the absence of any confirmation from the iranian side. in the margins of the united nations general assembly, my colleague commissioner ferrero-waldner told mr manouchehr mottaki, the iranian foreign minister, that it would be important for iran to reconfirm its commitment to the eu-iran human rights dialogue by agreeing on a date for an early meeting. we are still waiting for iran’s response. regarding the current human rights situation in iran, there is a growing cause for concern, as exemplified by the continued imprisonment of mr akbar ganji – as mr alexander mentioned – and his supporter and lawyer, mr abdolfattah soltani. there are other serious issues of concern which have emerged recently: the juvenile death penalty cases despite the existence of a moratorium on this penalty; the arrest of members of the baha’i faith; the excessive use of force to suppress unrest in the provinces of khuzestan and kurdistan; and the continued suppressions of freedom of the press. each is a matter of deep concern. the european commission remains mobilised on each of these issues. we are fully in line with the european parliament in saying that, without a systemic improvement of the human rights situation in iran, our relations with iran cannot develop properly. indeed, our relationship with the islamic republic of iran is, at present, well below potential: iran is one of the few countries with which the eu has no contractual relation. a framework agreement with the eu could facilitate the reintegration of iran into the international community and contribute to the creation of an environment conducive to economic growth and job creation. this should, in turn, consolidate the indigenous reform process leading towards a more open society. as the presidential campaign demonstrated, these are indeed among the most pertinent demands of the iranian electorate. since 2002, the commission has led talks for the conclusion of a trade and cooperation agreement – tca – with iran. they run parallel to the negotiations led by the eu presidency for a political dialogue agreement – pda. these two tracks are indivisible and mutually reinforcing. they are also dependent on the overall political atmosphere. you may recall, when the nuclear crisis first erupted back in 2003, that we had to place our tca and pda discussions on hold. these were resumed only after the signature of the november 2004 paris agreement, which helped to re-establish a more favourable political environment. the eighth – and so far last – round of negotiations took place in tehran on 12 and 13 july 2005. indeed, up and until the most recent crisis over the nuclear issue, our negotiators had made good progress. this leads me to say a few words on where we stand with regard to the nuclear issue, including its implications on the tca since the adoption of the resolution of the international atomic energy agency of 24 september. the meeting of the general affairs and external relations council of 3 october confirmed that the eu remains firmly united around the european union e3 troika approach. this strong sense of eu solidarity around the e3 position forms the platform around which the united international community can rally to strengthen the hand and to support the excellent efforts displayed by the iaea and its director-general, mr mohammad elbaradei. a united eu can also form the bedrock upon which the international community can send a clear message to iran that, whilst as per article iv of the non proliferation treaty – npt – iran has the inalienable right to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes – and this without discrimination – we need objective guarantees on the exclusively peaceful nature of iran’s nuclear programme. indeed, the eu considers that the integrity of the npt must be preserved, and that international cooperation must take place within the strict limits set by the npt and the nuclear suppliers group guidelines. these principles underpin the framework set up last november in paris by the european countries. the comprehensive package presented to iran last august represents a solid pillar on which iran and the international community can find a common ground for their legitimate concerns. the commission has also played its part. following the resumption of conversion activities at the isfahan plant two months ago, we decided to put the negotiations we were leading for a trade and cooperation agreement on hold. the commission strongly hopes that the iranian leadership will accurately assess what the stakes are and will, as a result, take the necessary steps to reverse the current unhelpful trend, including ensuring full cooperation with international organisations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this resolution must send a clear political signal to tehran, both in terms of human rights and nuclear issues. the european parliament is uncompromising on human rights. we are generally against the death penalty, and we therefore call all the more forcefully for the execution of minors to be stopped and for the death penalty not to be imposed on persons who were under 18 years of age at the time of the offence. i also thank the presidency for the same clear words on the human rights dialogue and the resumption. we expect the commission to provide funds from the european initiative for democracy and human rights so that we can intensify cooperation with iranian civil society. i would like to thank commissioner figel, you have already mentioned some areas where we can make this concrete. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the human rights situation in the country is not seriously affected. the same connection exists, of course, with nuclear issues, which are also essential for the further development of relations with the eu. we welcome any cooperation with the iaea which will enable effective controls. but regardless, we are calling for a complete halt to all our own uranium enrichment activities, as agreed in paris last november. we call on the iranian side to resume talks with the eu before the next iaea board of governors meeting in november. you know that the european union has offered to supply enriched uranium for civilian use. russia, for example, could do the same then the spent fuel rods can be returned but iran should take concrete steps to reduce the distrust that exists not only in the nuclear field. iran can only win. if he doesn't, he'll find himself on the un security council, and there's less for iran to gain.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i thank you for your comments and for your consideration of the question of human rights, because we all know that peace and human rights are mutually dependent. the debate we are having today is taking place at a time when no one knows exactly how to proceed. that is why we should also be very differentiated in our arguments with regard to the various resolutions which will be voted on tomorrow. the details will determine whether we as the european parliament will live up to our responsibility to find a strategy of de-escalation. a strategy of de-escalation, for me, means opening up new negotiating opportunities to achieve our political objective of stopping proliferation in the middle east and preventing iran from ever having a nuclear bomb. the way to de-escalation, in the view of my group, is not to call the security council, because we have learned from iraq. we fear that a disagreement before the un security council will lead to escalation, that the iaea will no longer be able to continue its activities in iran without restrictions, and we know that this ultimately means the risk of military escalation. we certainly agree on this goal, and we have to find ways to keep the doors open, because the people in iran have expectations of us: the contacts we have, the journalists we know, the human rights organizations or even the nobel prize winners. they also expect us to try to give diplomacy a chance. i would also like to refer to mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner. we spoke to them this week. we must move away from the un security council and towards political solutions. the same concern is with human rights: it is not standard that we talk about human rights all the time, but since the election of president ahmadinejad, the human rights dialogue has also been suspended and there is a deterioration in the human rights situation. i appeal to those who are taking part in this debate on behalf of tehran to clarify whether akbar gandji is still alive. make sure that akbar gandschi is released immediately and unconditionally! let his lawyer go, who was a guest here in the european parliament in july and discussed these questions! that is the tenor of our resolution and i take that very seriously. i am glad that the commission and the council are supporting us in this direction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on 1 august, iran resumed its nuclear fuel cycle activities in isfahan. he has clearly violated the paris agreement. the board of governors of the atomic energy authority stated on 24 september that, based on past experience, it had no confidence that iran's nuclear programme was exclusively for peaceful purposes. what do you mean, "i'm not"? so it's not just about our relationship with iran, but the future of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. it is about the danger of more and more regimes acquiring nuclear weapons. in addition to the increasing number of reports of executions and death sentences of juveniles under the age of 18, the fact that akbar gandschi, who was arrested more than five years ago, is still in prison and is in a critical condition. the impression cannot be denied that iran is using the european union to buy time for its programme. it also seems that iran is assuming that the european union will not be able to act together in the future, as we have unfortunately seen with regard to iraq. i am convinced that this is not the time for sympathetic resolutions and friendly visits, but that we must take a common stand and make it clear to iran that it is harming itself if it continues on this fatal course.
i have to say, madam president, i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations with iran, and that it should be involved in the negotiations with iran. i think it is important to make it clear once again that what the troika and the eu institutions have offered in the talks is a balanced strategy towards iran. it has no built-in guarantee of success, that's true, but it has no alternative. any military option in this debate would be politically disastrous, regardless of whether it was even feasible. that has to be said in the clearest possible terms. it is also necessary to remind some of my colleagues who have spoken in the last hour that we have had a situation here in europe where highly armed nuclear powers faced each other. if they had not had the capacity to take account of the security interests of the other party, there would have been no arms limitation agreements and no disarmament measures. we may well have had a nuclear war by then. i'd be dead, but those who just made those militant speeches probably are, too. that's something to think about! in fact, we must be able to take account of the legitimate security interests of this regime itself. a strategy that makes offers is sensible. but we should not exclude the possibility of using the international security council as a means of pressure, because that would be politically unwise.
the debate is closed. i have received six motions for resolutions (see minutes) pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda will be followed by a minute's speaking time on important political questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. only if africa, with our support, can shape its own future, will it have lasting success. and so the best aid programmes will be of no use if we do not help to help ourselves, if we do not succeed in actually planting democracy and the rule of law in such a way that the seedlings are no longer tender, but established; we must do so if we are to enable the african people to participate in and take responsibility for their own destiny. i think it's a shame that the most mobile people are trying to leave africa, and that we're not giving them the opportunity to contribute to their local society and to move it forward. all of this will not be possible unless we focus on education, and again, education. i am thinking particularly of education for young girls and women. the longer we send girls to school and the more developed and educated they are, the better they will be able to raise their children, but also the later they will have children, and this is an essential factor if a society is to progress. we need a concentration of forces, not a policy where the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing. and above all, we need a policy of optimism. i would like to congratulate you on your paper. i congratulate you on the confidence that your paper speaks to me of. but i know that even with our combined efforts, it will take a long time to get africa to where we want it to be. and in the process, we must try to avoid the africans repeating all the mistakes that have been made in our history. you can take a little of our experience and you can benefit.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a member of the short-term observer delegation, i would like to thank in particular the long-term observers for their work. the proposed text says that the ethiopians have demonstrated their faith in democracy. i think it is a little more than that: the ethiopians have documented their dignity and demonstrated their capacity for democracy. the first and foremost thing we owe them is our thanks, the thanks of the spirit of democracy! i have already counted 150 people in line at 6 a.m. in ethiopia, and i have seen 1 500 people at the polling stations at noon. mrs gomes has seen, as i have, elderly people who have stood in line for many hours without food or drink and then voted with a wide smile. i rediscovered the sex appeal of democracy in ethiopia, in a time of declining voter turnout in our country, if i may be so blunt and vulgar. i've seen how beautiful democracy can be! however, we have also experienced the fragility of the process. we have seen people whispering to us as they left the polling stations: please don't go! we have seen the reputation of the european union, the faith people place in the european union, that it not only carries ideals like a flag, but is also prepared to stand up for those ideals, and i can say for myself that i have never worn the star-spangled crown of the european union with such pride. but we also saw people who were observers saying, "when the count is over, i'm going to disappear for a few days for safety reasons". in the days of addis, it was often said that the government might not be ready to leave office, but that the opposition might not be ready or able to come into office either. the european union was therefore wise to exercise caution in the face of this uncertainty. however, events since then have shown that the government is unlikely to be able to stay in office, and that the opposition is more capable of coming to power than we thought. we should gradually abandon our caution in these resolutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in ethiopia is becoming more unstable by the day. the main responsibility for this lies with the government. with a turnout of 90%, the people of ethiopia have expressed their confidence in the democratic process, while the government has apparently panicked as the first election results were announced. i support our eu chief electoral observer, ana gomes, in her intention to produce an objective and truthful report. and the usual suspects - also here in brussels - who prefer to continue with the status quo in relation to africa and whose circles are more likely to be disturbed by democratic elections, should beware of making immoral proposals here with the aim of relativizing the actual findings. the same temptation seems to be falling on our american friends at the moment. i warn you! it is not a way of creating democracy, of ensuring lasting stability or even of combating international terrorism. it is important that the government and the opposition resume dialogue in the interest of the country, despite everything that has happened since may 15. our diplomats in addis ababa are also doing a valuable service in this regard. but above all, the government has a duty: it must create trust. so please amend the rules of procedure of parliament so that the opposition can at least exercise its constitutional rights! cancel the waiver of the immunity of the members who did not attend the opening session and also of the addis ababa city council! release the political prisoners! give the opposition access to the media! if they are not prepared to create these conditions, then they are showing their true face, which we see very often in africa, that elections are only right if they confirm the government. but that's not the point. 90% of ethiopians have expressed what they want from the democratic election and the government must also apply this against them.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr portas on his report, as it makes a relevant contribution to an important debate. the situation in europe has changed substantially since the adoption of the last directive on the education of children of migrant workers in 1977. since then, the number of migrant workers and the range of languages spoken by migrants in the union have increased considerably, and the union itself has increased. moreover, the assumption that migrants and their children would return to their countries of origin is no longer valid. migrants stay in the host countries. the teaching needs of migrant children are different and more complex, now covering second and third generations. europe has become a truly multilingual area and it is in this context that we must promote languages and language learning. mr portas’ report gives me the opportunity to provide you with some information on what we are already doing and what we intend to do in the future. firstly, the work programme on the objectives of education and training systems in europe sets concrete goals. in this context, the general objective of improving active citizenship, equal opportunities and social cohesion covers issues such as the access of immigrants and their children to education and training. three of the five eu benchmarks are particularly relevant in this context with regard to immigrant populations. the first is to reduce the number of early school leavers; the second is to increase education attainment levels, and the last benchmark in relation to migrants is to reduce the number of low achievers in reading literacy. we are also implementing the ‘promoting language learning and linguistic diversity’ action plan, which was adopted in 2003. let me recall its key underlining principles. first, language learning is a lifelong activity and should be extended to all citizens. everybody should learn their mother tongue plus two other languages from an early age. second, a range of languages should be available, including migrant languages. third, parents and teaching staff need better information on the benefits of early foreign language learning. fourth, content and language-integrated learning, in which pupils learn a subject in a foreign language, has a major contribution to make to the union’s language learning goals. the community programme, in particular the comenius, grundtvig and lingua actions of the socrates programme, provide support to a wide range of projects, from class and teacher exchanges to the development and dissemination of teaching methodologies. the future integrated lifelong learning programme will bring new opportunities. promotion of language learning and linguistic diversity is a specific objective of the future new programme. transversal action will support networks in the field of language learning and linguistic diversity. the european network of schools, which is mentioned in mr portas’ report, could be very well supported by the programme. funding could be made available on a multiannual basis, which would ensure stability and continuity of funding. the culture 2000 programme encourages intercultural dialogue and exchanges between european and non-european cultures. this dimension will be further reinforced in the culture 2007 programme. i would like to mention two initiatives in the cultural field which are in line with the report. first, last week i proposed, and the commission adopted, a proposal to declare 2008 the european year of intercultural dialogue. i hope to submit to the college before the end of the year a new approach for multilingualism, the first policy paper on multilingualism in the european union. to conclude, let me thank mr portas again for his inspiring report and ideas, which i will look at carefully with my colleagues. i therefore look forward to our forthcoming discussions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr portas, for his report on the integration of immigrants, which is a very important subject. this process, of course, is carried out above all else, especially through language. school and language learning are important factors for successful integration. it is important to remember the role of school and language learning in the life of a person in general and, above all, in the life of a child. they are important factors in the development of the human spirit, in the development of an understanding of oneself and others, and in successful integration into a community. this is of course particularly true for people with an immigrant background, who have a dual social and cultural identity, so to speak: the culture of the country of origin and the mother tongue, and the culture and the language - or the languages, if we think of belgium here - of the new home to which they have immigrated. the report by mr portas has struck a good balance. firstly, it emphasizes the right of every person and every child to a general education, and this of course necessarily includes learning the language of the host country. on the other hand, it also emphasises the right of these children to learn their mother tongue, which is in line with the charter of fundamental rights, which also establishes the right to education and the right to a cultural, religious and linguistic identity. we must encourage the different pedagogical methods that ensure language acquisition. the commissioner has already pointed out a number of things which are already being done, and this is commendable. the eu can make this possible. it can use political, administrative and financial means to promote the following: the upgrading of language teaching experience, the exchange of experience and the promotion of networks of schools where integration through multilingualism is practised on a daily basis. in this sense, and also in my capacity as rapporteur for lifelong learning - and this has been quoted repeatedly today - i agree with the report. i am also a political priority for school education and language learning, and this is reflected in particular in the comenius programme. overcoming barriers and promoting language learning experiences must be our common policy objective.
member of the commission. mr. chairman, thank you for your encouragement. i want to thank you for this discussion, because it also confirms that multilingualism is important both from the point of view of migration and from the point of view of european integration, whether we take it on a larger or smaller scale. i just want to say that we have enough good examples that say that this issue can be developed positively. i'll give you just two arguments. now in september, the reviews came out because on september 26th, we had european day of languages. according to surveys, half the population of the union is fluent in at least one foreign language. that's a good number because it's increasing, but it's worth saying that we have many countries that are close to 90 percent of the population able to communicate in a foreign language. we have a group of countries where about 30% of the population is capable of this kind of communication. there is a 1 + 2 model (mother tongue + 2 foreign languages) - on average it is about 1.5, so 1 + 1.5 - in european education today. but we have countries within the eu-25 that are over two foreign languages for schoolchildren, so 1 + more than 2, and we have countries that are around one foreign language or less. it is a challenge again for states to do much more on this issue, because it is also about employment, it is also about mobility, it is also about the capacity for personal and mental development, and of course it is also about tolerance, the capacity to understand another culture and to live in a multicultural environment. i would like to stress that the european commission will prepare the conditions for a european web portal, which should serve the very purpose mentioned by mrs christa prets - for language teaching and linguistic diversity. thank you very much for your support, discussion and cooperation, and especially to the rapporteur.
the rapporteur. the commission is not we're almost talking about something wonderful about the circus. i hope we can all be a little happy about that. i have, however, enjoyed it very much during the time i have been dealing with this question. i have made many friends in the circus world, and all i can say is that it is worthwhile to study the subject of the circus. i have not dealt with this because i enjoy it, but because i was compelled by the problems facing the circus in the european union and beyond. the report has one aim: to make the recognition of the circus as part of european culture a matter of course. in very few countries of the european union is the circus considered a cultural asset. the national states are called upon to take up this problem and to recognise the circus as an important cultural asset. this will also help to solve problems that the circus still faces today. the second point concerns education and training. the commission should establish cooperation mechanisms for cooperation between member states to ensure that children in travelling communities - and i am not just referring to circus children - but all travelling communities - receive appropriate education and training, regardless of the country in which they are currently in the community. it would be very desirable if the council could agree to a new resolution to ensure high quality school and vocational training for children, young people and adults in the mobile communities and to recognise and support vocational training in circus schools. the third problem is that of the so-called temporary structures. the commission, after consulting the european circus association, which has its seat here in brussels, could give the european committee for standardization a standardisation mandate to draw up a comprehensive standardisation package for mobile circus equipment. for example, in the various countries of the european union there are different safety standards, different standards for the tent wall, etc. this is not ridiculous, but unfortunately, it is god's will that this should be changed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the problem is also that of circus workers, mobility and the employment of third-country nationals. the commission should analyse the current visa and work permit systems and, as a result, draw up a european regulation in this area which should take account of the current difficulties in obtaining visas for the purpose of issuing work permits. the current difficult conditions for artists with short-term contracts must also be removed, for example the requirement to prove that there is a shortage of equally qualified people within the eu. can you explain to me how i can prove that if i want to have a great artist from ukraine or china perform in a circus in europe? i'd have to prove that there are no equally qualified artists in europe. this is really nonsense! no opera house should be allowed to indulge in such nonsense, and scala has the opportunity to hire any singer from the european union and beyond, from third countries. but a circus doesn't have that option. that's why it's important that the circus be recognized as a cultural asset. it'll be easier for the artists too. we have made a compromise in the report not to talk about animal husbandry, because the subject of animal husbandry in circuses is a very important issue for individual countries, which they like to regulate themselves at national level. we are not going to vote for the amendments, but we are going to vote for the amendments which are not acceptable to us. there are such guidelines in germany and england, for example; one should just follow them. the report we have written is therefore quite reasonable. we would ask the commission not only to take note of this but also to actually fulfil the requirements we have put to it. it is to convene the standards committee and to make it clear to the members of the national governments that the circus is an important cultural asset which we would also like to leave to our children and grandchildren. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as the rapporteur has rightly said, although the union does not have direct competence under the treaty to pursue an urban policy, the european parliament has always advocated an urban policy at european level. i would just like to remind you that it was this parliament which supported the urban community initiative at the time and which ultimately succeeded in implementing it. in the forthcoming planning period 2007 to 2013, the existing urban dimension is now integrated into the mainstream programmes for simplification. this can be very useful in ensuring that continuity is guaranteed for the success of this urban dimension. urban areas are - and the rapporteur has clearly emphasised this - unmistakably economic engines and key elements of regional development generated within the eu. the fact that over 80% of economic activity takes place in cities justifies the principle of partnership as one of the main elements of cohesion policy. urban and rural policies are interdependent. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the process of population decline, the phenomenon of emigration, caused by the decline of industry, is significant in the cities of the central and eastern european countries. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe, and this is the only way to achieve the objectives of the european union. the balanced report of the rapporteur should therefore be supported and the conclusions followed.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. urban politics and urban space are becoming increasingly important. the report was explicitly drawn up for enlargement, which is what is aggravating this problem. i would just like to remind you that in the cities of central and eastern europe there are huge blocks of flats, with all the problems that go with them, both in the building and in the social sphere. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the cities. this means that there are very good opportunities for the new member states to accompany their urban policy with the help of the european union. however, and i want to make this clear, urban development is not only problematic in the new member states but also in the old member states. i think we must continue to deal with this issue in the future, and if necessary develop instruments to accompany certain problems on the part of the european union. we are not, as mr beaupuy rightly said, responsible for urban policy, but to pretend that urban problems are not european problems would be to ignore the facts. i therefore follow the rapporteur's suggestion of giving urban policy a more horizontal approach and call on the commission to take action accordingly. however, i think it is very sensible to proceed very moderately in amending the rules of procedure of the european parliament, and that is why my group has tabled an amendment to that effect. we are not opposed to urban policy, but on the contrary we strongly support it. we are against any change in the rules of procedure. there have been repeated attempts to change the rules of procedure, but i believe that we would be going the wrong way in deciding on urban policy. let me make one more point which may not be directly related to mr beaupuy's report. commissioner hübner has explained what the council is currently working on. i can only ask the council and the presidency to decide as soon as possible on the financial perspective so that we have a framework which can be backed up as soon as possible by the relevant projects, otherwise we will not be able to implement the cohesion policy for the new period from january 2007 and will not be able to monitor the problems in urban areas in the new member states. we need a decision by the council as soon as possible and that decision should be as close as possible to the decisions of the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our group expressly welcomes this own-initiative report and thanks you for the good cooperation. this report covers a wide range of issues which reflect the work of the intergroup on urban development, chaired by the rapporteur. cities and regions, together with civil society, will have a great challenge, but also an excellent opportunity to communicate european policies and their objectives. in my home town of leipzig, programmes such as urban ii have produced excellent results, not least through the instrument of citizen participation. direct participation allows a european perspective to be established on the ground. if we give up this potential, we should not be surprised that many people in europe see the decisions taken in brussels and strasbourg as interference in internal affairs rather than forward-looking action. urban planning today must take a holistic approach. this includes jobs as well as issues of child or elder-friendliness, the provision of affordable housing or the development of transport links. the urban dimension must also become a cross-cutting task for the commission's directorates-general, so that it is reflected in all policy areas. whether it is the structural funds or the lisbon-gothenburg strategy, european policy cannot really succeed unless cities and regions are on board. i was struck by a recent survey which showed that 75% of towns and cities have no connection with the lisbon strategy. this should give rise to some reflection on the part of our member states, who want to apply the partnership principle voluntarily but not as a binding obligation, especially after the commissioner's report today. sharing power is probably not as welcome after all. i am therefore very much looking forward to the analysis and proposals for sustainable urban development which you, madam commissioner, have announced to us today. in this sense, european cohesion policy can indeed be implemented, and i am confident that there will be further good cooperation between the commission, parliament and, ultimately, the council. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. madam president, thank you very much for a very good debate. we have listened very carefully. mrs krehl raised the point of the financial perspective. all i can say is that i could not agree more. i think europe is simply unable to absorb a longer period of uncertainty without very strong negative political, economic and social consequences, and that is why the lack of a good decision in december will cause damage that european citizens cannot afford anymore. regarding the debate on the urban dimension, i see that debate as a broad and strong support to this need to strengthen the urban dimension in our cohesion policy. once again i want to say how much i appreciate the efforts of mr beaupuy and of the other members of the parliament who worked with him. i also want to assure you that we look at cities and towns on a europe-wide basis. we look at all the problems and all the contributions of europe-wide cities and towns and the contribution to the change in europe. we are also aware of how much we can learn from towns and cities in europe. there is an enormous amount of best practice which we have taken from the urban programme and i hope we will be able to use it in the future. two or three specific issues were also raised. one is the gender issue and the issue of equal status between men and women. in this context i would like to say two things. one, with regard to regulation, we have the provisions in the general regulation, but – also in response to many of your comments – what we have done over the last weeks when revising the position of the commission was to propose adding the gender dimension for the first time in the history of cohesion policy to the erdf regulation. it has not yet been approved by the commission, but i hope it will be a major step forward. i also want to say that we will take into account the gender dimension in our consultation on the working paper on urban issues which we are currently working on. housing was mentioned in different contexts. as you know, the housing issue is among those few issues which are still outstanding in the negotiations in the council, in addition to some other very difficult issues on which parliament has also voted, including cofinancing rates and eligibility of vat. my understanding is that these questions will be solved in the context of the debate on the financial perspective, not in the context of the negotiations on the regulation. on the baltic sea area, i want to say that within the current interreg programme it is one of the best – if not the best – performing programmes. i also hope that in the future we will have under the third objective this baltic zone for transnational dimension. it is under major threat because, as you know, the budget proposal under the luxembourg presidency for the european territorial corporation objective in particular as regards the transnational dimension has been drastically reduced. i now turn to the report. in response to mr van nistelrooij, with regard to timing, we are working on the document on urban issues. we will i think start this or next week interservice consultations in the commission. i hope i will be able to say something when i come in november to the meeting with mr beaupuy’s group, but generally all i can say at this stage is that we would like to have the first discussion with the member states already in december and then, as i have said, continue the consultations until more or less march. then, maybe – but we will have to discuss this – sometime around march we could have a joint conference on those issues. however, we have to discuss it and see what we can do together. i certainly look forward to further cooperation with your intergroup on urban and housing issues and i once again thank you very much for the discussion today. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the report by mr chmielewski, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources in the baltic sea, the belts and the sound and amending regulation (ec) no 1434/98 (com (2005) 0086 - c6-0094/2005 - 2005/0014 (cns)) (a6-0265/2005).
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we support the general objective of the report and welcome the fact that definitions and various technical regulations are to be amended. the commission's proposals in the fisheries sector, which could lead to a reduction in fishing activity in the short and long term, are always controversial. this was also the case with the present proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to refer in particular to article 12 of the commission proposal, which deals with the restrictions and prohibitions on driftnets. our group has so far supported all measures which provide for a reduction or a ban on these fishing gear. it is therefore only right that the same strict rules should apply to the baltic sea as to other fishing areas of the european union where driftnets have long been banned, because they also increase the chances of survival of small whales. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but - and this is a daily reality - a valid legal framework will only be as good as it can be easily and effectively controlled on the ground, i.e. in practice. i think that this is where the greatest difficulties lie and i hope that this legal framework will lead to greater emphasis on control in the future.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr chmielewski once again on his report. he made reference to the fact that he had been faced with a very difficult challenge and needed to find a workable compromise. the end result is very much a workable compromise, and the commission is prepared to accept all the amendments except the one i have already mentioned. i also agree that the breakthrough came with the acceptance of the t90 codend, which could be used as an alternative to the bacoma trawl. i confirm that isis advises that the t90 codend has the same selectivity as the bacoma exit window and we can therefore accept its use. with regard to driftnets, we accept the study which can indicate what remedial measures can be taken which would be of a socio-economic nature. however, the commission has no intention of considering an extension of the phasing-out of driftnets with regard to the baltic, simply because of the fact that the driftnets ban has already been in place with the regulation of 1998 and the extension and phasing-out up to 2010 for the baltic was already a special concession and it does not make sense to grant any further extension or concession, otherwise we risk opening up again the whole argument with regard to driftnets and place in doubt the validity of such driftnets in the other community waters. it is true that the number of porpoises is very low. this, however, makes it even more important to continue to uphold the ban to ensure that no irreparable damage occurs with regard to porpoises. the low populations of porpoises put even more responsibility on us to ensure their protection. in addition, there is a general driftnet ban, which is part of the acquis, as i mentioned before, and we must ensure that this is in no way prejudiced. first of all i should like to thank mr kindermann and mr schlyter for their support. with regard to the point made by mr schlyter concerning the closed season for cod, it must be said that the closure and the closed areas for cod and the closed season for cod is not a voluntary measure. it is a mandatory measure, which was introduced together with the tacs and quotas regulation at the december council. however, at the moment we are preparing a recovery plan for cod in the baltic sea and it is obvious that technical measures and measures relating to closed areas and closed seasons will form an integral part of this recovery plan. it is also obvious that if fishermen are constrained to tie up as a result of such closed seasons, then, under normal community rules, they would be entitled to compensation for that tie-up if it is considered to be of an exceptional nature or is a result of the measures of a recovery plan. with regard to what mr titford said, i can only say that i cannot agree with him.
the debate on this report is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended from 10.50 a.m. to 11 a.m.)
- i'm not going to. your concern is absolutely justified. the president has therefore already written a letter to the council in which he strongly and forcefully criticises this situation. we expect the council to stick to the rules that have been in place for years and decades. the procedure you have described is totally unacceptable and we have already intervened in this regard. (the minutes were approved)
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
my very distinguished colleagues! i have the great honour, after we have voted on china today, of welcoming the members of the delegation of the people's republic of china to the 22nd interparliamentary meeting ep-china. welcome to the delegation of the national people's congress of the people's republic of china led by mr wang. (applause from the centre) dear chinese delegates, i would like to thank you for your support. you know that dialogue between europe and china is crucial for further globalisation.
i suggest you attend one of the delegation meetings. they know that national sovereignty allows them to send delegations, which are appointed in accordance with national rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in view of yesterday's debate and also of the reaction of the iranian side to our demand for the immediate release of akbar gandji and for guarantees that he is still alive, i would like to make an additional request.
- i'm not going to. i asked the same question in the run-up to the vote. i have been told that we have to be a little lenient because the situation in ethiopia has changed virtually hourly.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. no further escalation in the nuclear dispute with iran! i am a firm opponent of nuclear power. however, the agreement with iran presented by the eu was flawed and could only be seen as a step towards escalation. the agreement was to make iran permanently free from all activities beyond the operation of nuclear reactors for the production of electricity. this would mean the end of uranium conversion, enrichment, fuel cell production and the planned heavy water reactor at arak. iran should renounce its right to terminate the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. never before has any nation on earth signed such a unilateral commitment to relinquish sovereignty. in return, the eu wanted, among other things, to guarantee that iran would not be attacked with nuclear weapons by eu member states. but the united states was not mentioned. there seems to be a division of labour between the us and eu3 governments. the eu is a very bad broker, partly because it itself promotes nuclear energy, france and the united kingdom do not want to give up their nuclear weapons and germany is accused of uranium enrichment. the only way to achieve this is by peacefully resolving the conflict over iran's nuclear programme. i am deeply concerned about the pressure being exerted on iran. this is reminiscent of the preparation for the war against iraq.
the minutes of this meeting shall be laid before parliament at the beginning of the next session. if no objection is raised, i shall forward the adopted text to the addressees.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.15 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have already asked the conference of presidents, as a group, to hold a debate on the commission's statement on patents for biotechnological inventions, but not to adopt a resolution. we believe that it is not possible to draw up a joint resolution in the short time between debate and adoption, if we take today's 48 hours into account, on one of the most important and at the same time most controversial issues in the european political debate. i don't think that's serious! we believe that it is useful to discuss this at this stage, but we should take more time for parliament to make a statement on such a difficult subject. we therefore ask that the debate be held without requests for resolutions and that the agenda be amended accordingly. the debate is closed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to oppose the motion by the socialist group and vote in favour of a resolution. the problem is that there are deadlines on this issue. if we do not speak on this issue in october, others will make the decision. for example, there is a patent in dispute at the european patent office. there are conflicting interpretations of the directive we have adopted here in parliament on the patenting of human genes or parts of the human body. if we do not speak, it is also a political signal, which means that we cannot make a competent contribution to this very controversial issue, even though we ourselves adopted the directive. that is why i ask that mr schulz's request be rejected. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, may i express my warmest thanks to the rapporteur, mrs pack; to the committee on culture and education, and to all who contributed to this excellent report. i would like to thank mrs pack in particular for the commitment and expertise she has brought to the report. in the present political climate our policies need more than ever to be directly relevant to citizens’ real needs. education and training is where the benefits of european integration are directly felt by millions of citizens. therefore, i am very grateful also for mr böge’s report for the temporary committee on the financial perspective. it is an important statement of support in a difficult financial context. my thanks are due also to the rapporteurs of the other committees that contributed opinions on this commission proposal. let me comment briefly on the amendments proposed in this report. i am pleased to say that the commission is able to accept, either word for word or in substance, 39 of the 79 amendments proposed by parliament. these changes improve the text, either by introducing new elements and priorities or by clarifying existing ones. there are 16 amendments which, i regret, the commission cannot accept because they either go beyond community competence or are not compatible with the structure of the programme, four of which relate to the parliament’s resolution. that leaves a further 20 amendments which raise some substantial issues on which i would like to comment. regarding amendments which derogate from the financial regulation or its implementing rules, four amendments to the annex to the decision – amendments 67, 68, 69 and 71 – would derogate from the existing implementing rules for the european union budget. they would introduce the sort of simplification identified as necessary by the commission in its explanatory memorandum to the programme proposal, such as extending the use of lump sums or lump-sum grants, reducing the administrative requirements on applicants for small grants and so on. so we have no argument with the substance of these amendments. however, the commission believes that such provisions should initially be sought by revising the financial regulation and its implementing rules themselves. changing the community financial framework in sectoral programmes makes this framework much harder to read and to understand. therefore, the commission believes it is too early to include such provisions in the decision on lifelong learning. on the named institutions: the new programme will support the operating costs of some institutions which do high-quality work in education and training at european level and which are important partners for the european union. the prime criterion for their selection will be quality. this means using calls for proposals where the grounds for selection are set out in advance and every applicant can measure itself against these criteria. exceptionally, the commission has proposed four institutions as eligible for operating grant support without a call for proposals. these four involve member state governments in their governance and funding. government involvement guarantees an important degree of quality and of commitment to the objectives, purpose and future development of these designated institutions. looking at the six institutions parliament proposes for nomination, the commission concludes that the european agency for development in special needs education, which has intergovernmental funding and governance arrangements, is consistent with the logic of our original proposal. therefore, we accept the amendment to this effect. briefly, on the budgetary amendments: a group of amendments relate to the budget of the programme. i am most grateful, as i have said, for the rapporteur’s proposal to increase the budget to eur 14 600 million, and i can fully subscribe to her underlying reasons. however, the commission cannot, pending an agreement on the financial perspectives, amend its original proposal, so i must reserve the position on the 10 amendments concerned. finally, in order for the programme to start on time, the decision needs to be made and adopted as soon as possible in 2006. i know this is a challenging timetable and depends very much on the timing of an agreement on the financial perspective, but i can assure you the commission will do everything it can to help this parliament and the council reach agreement rapidly.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that the programme is in its present form. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the aim was to avoid the old mistakes and to find new ways. the european parliament has nevertheless taken on even more new roads, because there are many roads leading to rome, as the german proverb says, and we should try to see them all at least once. i would like to say, for the sake of completeness, which parts of the programme are involved: the overall programme for education and training is concerned. it is good that we now have vocational training! this is a program that allows all people to participate in educational programs from the cradle to the cradle. the first programme which concerns all of us is the comenius programme. it is aimed at those who must attend school in any case. it therefore targets those who are subject to compulsory education and gives them the opportunity to experience at an early age what cultural differences or even a common approach of different countries to a particular subject mean. this programme is followed by the erasmus programme, which gives these students the opportunity, if they are students, to complete part of their studies in another european country and to take home what they have acquired there. in parallel, there is a programme called leonardo which enables apprentices and trainees to complete part of their training in the form of a traineeship in another european country. the fourth programme is grundtvig, which concerns adult education, and the fifth is the jean monnet programme, which includes support measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that parliament will agree to this. we would like to continue to support the jean monnet chairs and all the other things you have already envisaged in your programme. there are also cross-cutting programmes which support activities which overlap with the sectoral programmes mentioned above, in particular the development of language learning materials, e-learning and the dissemination of good practice in education and training at national, regional and local level. we have improved your proposals and have placed particular emphasis on the fact that comenius partnerships give not just one in 20 but one in 15 pupils the opportunity to spend a school year abroad. this would mean that 6 million pupils in upper secondary schools would have the opportunity to spend a school year in another eu country as a guest pupil. i have also worked with my colleagues on the committee on culture and education to ensure that the european consciousness of teachers can be strengthened in the new comenius regio programme. we have also proposed to increase the mobility grant in the erasmus programme, which has remained unchanged since 1993. you can't go to another country with 150 euros and live and study there. in addition, you need the support of your parents, grandparents, or other relatives. we should, however, make it possible for all students to take part in such an exchange. we therefore suggest that the monthly stipend be increased slightly more than the commission has proposed. it is of course important to me - as it is to the commission - that the bureaucratic requirements be reduced to a reasonable level. administrative and accounting requirements for the granting and payment of grants shall be proportionate to the amount of the grants. i shall now turn briefly to the subject of finance. all the funds we are discussing today are indicative amounts only. nobody knows how much we have available from 2007. that is why the figures for the commission, the figures for the boogey committee and the figures for our committee are only indicative. we must wait and see what the next council presidency brings us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should put up a sign! education and training are an important part of the lisbon process. we need it, and we need more money for it than the national governments in the european union are willing to provide. thank you, commissioner, for the work of your staff. (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the opinion of the committee on budgets also welcomes this proposed commission programme in the field of lifelong learning, which comprises the four major programmes erasmus, comenius, leonardo and grundtvig. it is based on the fundamental conviction that these programmes are of no small importance for the structural change in europe and are an essential part of the renewal of europe. the opinion welcomes the fact that this proposal aims to simplify administrative and financial procedures, but criticises the fact that they are still too cumbersome and too slow. we must point out that the budget figures are provisional. the committee on budgets, on the other hand, also notes that the figures proposed by the commission for this important priority are very modest. the formal comment on what the commission has proposed is therefore only one aspect. the political vote is about moving further in order to achieve the important educational goals of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's education programmes are in the process of reorientation. erasmus, comenius, comenius regio for secondary education, grundtvig and leonardo are part of the integrated action programme on lifelong learning. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. i congratulate doris pack on her report, in which she tries to find a balance between the various sectoral subprogrammes rather than playing them off against each other. however, the proposal by the culture committee to reserve only 23% of the lifelong learning programme for leonardo, rather than the 25% provided for, has caused concern amongst trainees, chambers of crafts and vocational training bodies. if we are to increase the number of traineeships from the present 45 000 to 70 000 or even - as your institution, mr commissioner, has proposed - to well over 100 000, we need a solid financial base. leonardo is a sustainable support for vocational training, it empowers individuals and it is fully in line with the objectives of the new lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. the first warning is that student placements should no longer be run through leonardo but through erasmus. this means that we would be relieved of some 600 million euros in a very important area alone. the commission is also proposing to involve smes more closely than before in leonardo. i have pointed out in the committee on employment and social affairs and in discussions with the companies and the people concerned that the financial perspective for the years 2007 to 2013 has not yet been adopted. it is therefore quite possible - and i hope we all share this view, commissioner figeľ - that the amount of money allocated to leonardo will be much higher than in the past. these eu educational programmes are so effective because they reach the people directly, because they make language, culture and different educational values visible and can therefore convince citizens of the added value of a european orientation.
member of the commission. i would like to thank you once again not only for your support but also for the really constructive atmosphere in the negotiations, because it is an expression of a certain maturity in order to put education and training at the heart of the union's policy and the cooperation of the member states. a few suggestions or remarks i would like to highlight: it should be noted that it is indeed premature to assess any figures from a budgetary point of view, although the preliminary political support is very significant. this and the two subsequent programmes for culture and youth have, on the basis of parliament's position, considerable support and therefore some expectations that they will be successful areas of future cooperation in the enlarged union. the call for opening programmes to third countries is timely, the programme itself counts on one per cent of the total volume for cooperation with other countries, which is not specified, but i just want to remind you that just as erasmus mundus is and will be part of cooperation, so tempus and tempus+ are a space for cooperation with third countries. several speakers spoke of lifelong learning as a right. it's a big change. we want to see systems, conditions, strategies, programmes for lifelong learning in the member states, but also participation, a concrete human space that participates in this system. and just for comparison, since there's a lot of skepticism or apathy in europe: there are continents where they talk about the fundamental right to basic education. we are already talking about the right to lifelong learning, and this is a great result of cooperation between states. in terms of training, the process called 'codensky' together with bologna is much more visible today. i am convinced that the current proposal for the adoption of a european qualifications framework, which is being consulted with the states, will be a significant prerequisite for more mobility and recognition of qualifications. i would also like to recall what mr thomas mann said, that part of the quota from the previous leonardo da vinci programme for placing university students in factories, in enterprises, is transferred in the future programme to the erasmus quota, so this too should be taken into account. finally, as regards the institutions mentioned by mr pavilionis, the institutions mentioned in the context of the support. if the european parliament and the council of states reach consensus, the commission may support such inclusion or assignment of institutions to the proposed list. as regards the european inter-university centre in venice, there is a debate going on which also involves some adaptation of the human rights regulations, where we want to prepare for the next period, but of course to find a solution for this institution so that its funding continues. that's basically all i felt i needed to reference. i am glad that education has become a consensus among committees, but also political groups and individuals. it's a good prerequisite for success.
member of the commission. mr president, the second of the programmes tonight and the third one later on show the special interest of the european parliament in supporting areas where we believe that kind of new momentum is to be addressed for the future of europe. the commission adopted its proposal for the ‘youth in action’ programme in july last year. parliament, and especially the committee on culture and education, has always been supportive of initiatives in favour of youth. the negotiations which took place this year have confirmed this and today we are going to discuss an excellent report which is the result of fruitful cooperation. i would especially like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gröner, for this cooperation and the leading position she has adopted in preparation for successful decisions. the ‘youth in action’ programme is designed to ensure continuity of current activities in the field of youth but also to develop them further. it is a programme of informal learning and mobility which will allow young people between the ages of 13 and 30 to get involved in projects developing solidarity and citizenship. these are the cement for european unity, mainly through youth exchanges, the european voluntary service and projects related to participative democracy. as you know the details of the programme, i shall not reflect on them but, rather, give the commission’s view on some important amendments. i am pleased to say that after the good exchange of views and cooperation up until now, most of your proposed amendments can be supported without reserve by the commission. few amendments, mainly those seeking to introduce more detail into article 8, cannot be supported. article 8 is about the implementing provision and the establishment of national agencies which will be responsible for the management of the programme at national level. the commission’s text sets out only general requirements in line with the principle of subsidiarity. it will be up to the member states’ authorities to implement these requirements according to national situations. i would like to comment on some very important amendments on which the commission agrees. mrs gröner’s report, while not suggesting changing the age brackets proposed by the commission, insists on ensuring that the main target group of the programme will be 15- to 28-year-olds. i very much share any concern over the participation in the programme of young people with fewer opportunities and the prevention of discrimination in terms of access to the programme. this aspect may not have been sufficiently highlighted in our proposal. however, the implementation of the programme is flexible enough to accommodate the specific needs of young people with fewer opportunities. we also understand that parliament would like to ensure that the different actions of the programme benefit from minimal financial allocation. this approach is fully compatible with the flexibility required for the implementation of the programme and the commission is therefore prepared to take on board proposed distribution among different actions. the report’s proposal to increase the programme’s budget shows the european parliament’s commitment once again to a programme that directly addresses young people and thus contributes to bringing younger generations closer to europe. i must stress that the financial issues are all subject to the outcome of the negotiations relating to the financial perspectives. finally, i wish to express my satisfaction at the proposed reference in the programme to the european youth week. i am also very pleased to see that, once more, the european parliament will be directly involved in youth week, which includes the ‘the youth takes the floor’ event in brussels. youth week will take place in early december 2005 and i am particularly grateful for the participation of president borrell and for the arrangements made for hearing young people in this parliament. to conclude, i wish to thank mrs gröner once again for the quality of the report. i believe that the ‘youth in action’ programme is widely supported by this assembly, and i thank you for that. i hope that the next step will be the adoption of a partial political agreement in the next council meeting in november.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. you have won a great deal of support in parliament for your proposals. the cooperation was excellent. we have seen the message of young people in the european elections and then in the referendums. we must start with the young if we are to make european policy successful. the promotion of active citizenship is a central point in the new youth in action programme and with the 73 amendments tabled by the european parliament we want to improve your proposal a little bit. we want to look at what the young people themselves have said in the consultation process. we are taking the most important step: promoting solidarity between young people, promoting mutual understanding, supporting the new neighbourhood policy and bringing together the various actors at national, regional and european level. for the five actions covered by the new programme - you have just outlined them - we have proposed - unlike lifelong learning - to provide for minimum funding for each action: the traditional youth exchange, action 1, should receive at least 30% of the budget, the european voluntary service should receive 23%, the new action 'youth for the world' should receive 4%, because it is going in a similar direction, similar to action 4 'support for social and educational workers and support systems', which should receive 15%, and the support for political cooperation, which includes youth week, should receive at least 4%. if you do the math, you will see that about 24% of the total budget is left over to give the commission flexibility and to allow it to spend more on youth week in one year and more on voluntary service or direct youth exchanges in another year. it is very important that flexibility is provided. we also call on the commission to de-bureaucratize this programme. we want the youth associations to have planning security, to be able to plan not just for one year, but for several years. we want them to get the money quickly and that it doesn't take more than four months from the application to the payment. this flexibility is found in the associations, especially the smaller youth associations, and it is also what brings success. you mentioned that we want to keep the focus on the original age group of the participants. the focus should therefore not be on the marginal groups - the 13 and 30 year olds who may be able to participate in the special case - but on the core group of 15 to 28 year olds. we want to have a much bigger budget! i think it is a shame that we in the european union, for example, spend 6.5 billion on subsidies for sugar production, but we still invest peanuts in lifelong learning, in youth exchanges, in culture. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the appropriations for the youth in action programme to eur 1 128 million. i think that is modest enough, and we must set clear signs here. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of young people against discrimination is a good one, but it is not enough to say that it is a good one. the same applies to the integration of disadvantaged young people, the possibility for all young people to participate not only in theory but also in practice, regardless of nationality and ethnicity, gender or sexual identity, place of residence or occupation or even unemployment. the aim of the project is to develop and implement the skills of intellectuals, linguists and intercultural learners. shouldn't youth be worth a fraction of the subsidies for tobacco growing? i will continue to be a thorn in the flesh, especially in the council, until there is a change of heart! a pact for youth must not only be agreed, it must be implemented! that's the first step.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and mrs gröner, the committee on budgets has great respect for your work and for the fact that you have included the figures in the böge report in your report. we are fully behind these figures. culture gains nothing from a weakened rapporteur, from a weakened parliament, in which different figures are used, so to speak, on a monthly basis. we therefore strongly advocate that these figures should be used as a basis. what happens when the luxembourg figures come in? culture would have gained nothing if we now pursued a policy other than that which the bureau of this house, the conference of committee chairmen, also considers to be correct and important. we are very pleased with the youth in action programme because it takes account of a large number of suggestions made by the court of auditors in recent years and has also emphasised the need to simplify the programmes. this is a very interesting point of departure, and we want to support it very strongly. as rapporteur on the reform of the financial regulation, i consider the points that have been made here to be extremely important and useful. i regret to see that in this programme you have called for and enforced a large number of exceptions to the financial regulation. i personally would have preferred to change the financial regulation itself so that the youth in action programme would allow us to work with a large number of small organisations and low grants. i think the points on the agenda which have been put forward are very important. we have tabled two amendments which would make an additional improvement on this point: firstly, the creation of a database which would enable all those organisations which complain about the large number of documents they have to submit to be notified. it would be possible to record this data once and for all and then only take account of the changes at each time. this would save the commission administrative burden and would also bring relief to the beneficiaries, which in turn would have a direct impact on the image of the european union. the more easily the subsidies are accessed, the more demand they are made for. we think this is particularly necessary for small programmes. the same applies to the application for 'proportionality of documents and grant amounts'. the directorate-general for education and culture would have every opportunity to act as it sees fit in the implementing provisions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposed youth in action programme and the balanced report by our committee's rapporteur, which proposes some improvements for the plenary to vote on, are a suitable and tried and tested means of enhancing youth policy throughout europe. the new youth programme will be considerably simplified compared with its predecessor, with flexible design and less red tape in the application for funding, which parliament has always advocated. in addition, the programme will be financed from one budget line instead of four. my group agrees with the rapporteur on the adjustment of the age limits for participants, on ensuring the exclusion of discrimination and the equal participation of disadvantaged young people, and on the involvement of young people in the evaluation and monitoring of the programme's objectives. the enlargement of the programme countries involved, the increased importance of european cooperation in the youth field and the extension of the age limits for young people require an increase in the financial envelope to as already mentioned eur 1.128 billion. we are, however, - and i should like to stress this - in agreement with the böge report. as regards the weighting of the actions, my group supports the proposed indicative guidelines for the minimum financial allocation for actions 1 to 5. the possibility of organising youth seminars and european youth weeks is firmly anchored in the report and is therefore part of european youth policy. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank her for the excellent cooperation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this programme is a challenge to what is known as european cultural policy. without a real cultural policy, the idea of the european union uniting peoples and not just states is threatened, especially at a time when the european union is seriously concerned about its future. this european cultural policy could help to bring together the needs of the cultural world and those of citizens. that is the only way to speak to the soul of europe! only in this way would the hearts of men be reached! people will say yes with their hearts in a referendum, but less with their minds. we believe that cultural activities should be concentrated more on small and medium-sized projects, which can help to make the cultural wealth of the various regions of the european union visible and bring it closer to the citizen. i hope that in this case, for once, the council will be more understanding than the commission. but if the ministers of culture, including the president of the commission, are so fond of the importance of culture in their sunday speeches and praise it as a factor of integration, cohesion and citizenship, then they should also ensure that sufficient funds are available. the programme is really not well-equipped, not even with what we want to add to it. i hope very much that sunday's speeches will be followed by action!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in recent months this house has been the scene of a campaign to support culture, calling for a european cultural budget of 70 cents per inhabitant per year. at the moment - and this is a shameful figure - we spend 35 million euros on the entire european cultural budget. that's what a big theater in germany gets. but if we really want, after the fall of the wall and with 25 member states, that europeans meet again, that there is cultural exchange, that there is more information, that western and eastern europe really have the chance to come into contact, then that is impossible with the current budget. that is why my group has increased the amounts proposed by the commission or now coming from the committee, because we need ten times as much as we have now. now we only have 7 cents, but we need 70 cents. we would then really have a chance to develop a cultural offensive for europe. i share the commission's basic approach with the three major objectives: transnational mobility, transnational exchange of cultural values and intercultural dialogue, because all these objectives are very well compatible with the promotion of contemporary culture, but also with the preservation of cultural heritage. i do not agree with the additional proposal by mr graça moura, who wants to formulate a fourth objective. because just emphasizing heritage throws off the good balance that we've worked out between contemporary art and the preservation of tradition. that is why we will not agree to this amendment. i am pleased that there is no longer a sectoral barrier and that people really want to work interdisciplinary with our cultural projects. i too believe that smaller projects should be given more opportunities.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened with great pleasure to the previous debates on matters which are very close to my heart, matters which i helped to develop and develop during my period as culture commissioner. i am very happy to remain active in the cultural field, working more specifically in the audiovisual field. the audiovisual sector is in fact fully involved in programmes relating to cultural diversity, which is the greatest wealth of europeans. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. it is important to note that this result was achieved after a long struggle. it is also a sign, as one member of parliament said in the previous debate, that if europe has a good project for union, based on a vision that brings the world together, and if it speaks with one voice, it can win. i think this should be a lesson for all of us: no, cultural diversity is not just european, it is global and we are right to invest in our european cultures. the media programme is of course playing a major role in this respect. the media programme helps to make our cultural and cinematic diversity a reality. first, he helps future filmmakers find their way, choose their professional training. secondly, during the period when the film is going from the stage of dreaming to the stage of writing, a very difficult period when nobody believes in the project, it is europe that helps the filmmakers to find the necessary financial means. secondly, at the production stage, the full responsibility for supporting film production falls to the member states, which, through the state aids we as the commission authorize, support their national cinema. at the same time, the private sector is empowered to invest in the creative industries of film. finally, when the work is finished, europe takes over because the work still needs to circulate, not only in its country of origin, but across borders. cultural diversity means that a film must be seen not only in its country of origin, in its language, but also by other europeans: what better way to understand the culture of our neighbours than to understand it through a film? i am proud to say that nine-tenths of the european films that are exported to be seen in another country are exported with the help of the media programme. i can also tell you all the pride of the networks of filmmakers, cinemas, creators, festivals. all these networks are doing what europe does best: coming together, joining forces to keep our cultures alive. mr president, it is very important that we continue along this path, because even if we help our cinema, even if we are proud of our filmmakers, european cinema is and remains a minority within its own territory. it is therefore essential that we continue to invest, even more than in the past, in the diversity of works and in their circulation. this is why the media programme, which was presented in july 2004, has a budget of over €1 billion. the commission recognizes the importance of this programme for the future of our creativity and our audiovisual heritage. i hope very much, as you all do, that the financial discussions in europe will allow this investment in our cinema and that this budget will not be cut. i know that you are keen to do so, and i would like to thank the committee on culture and education and its rapporteur, mrs ruth hieronymi, for the wonderful work they have done. i would like to thank all the other committees, the foreign affairs committee, the committee on women's rights and gender equality, the committee on budgets, the committee on industry, research and energy, which have also dealt with the matter. they were right to do so because our films are much more than culture: they are commerce, international relations, industry. all members of parliament, from whatever committee they are, must therefore take an interest in this cultural diversity, which is made possible by our cultural industries and thanks to the talent of our creators. as regards the amendments, i should like to say that, as a general rule, i can accept the vast majority of them. there are seventy-seven. the commission will accept 56 because, quite simply, parliament has done very positive, very creative and very constructive work, and i would like to thank it for this work which significantly improves the draft which the commission has put on the table. to return to the amendments in more detail, i would like to say that i particularly welcome the amendments which reinforce the importance of the new priorities given to media 2007 compared to the previous media programme. on the one hand, it is about financing small and mediumsized enterprises, which are fragile and need our help, and on the other hand, it is about using digital technology. digital is everywhere, but it is not yet perfect, we must help with digitisation. these two aspects are essential to enhance the competitiveness of the sector. we must also ensure that european works take advantage of the new opportunities offered by digital technology, such as the legal downloading of films from the internet. parliament knows that i encourage the heads of the telecommunications and internet companies and the content creators to sit down together to solve the problem of piracy and to divide the revenues between the two branches of the industry. as regards the amendments which the commission cannot accept - a very small minority of the amendments, madam rapporteur - i should like to explain why. this explanation will help you to understand that we are not opposed to either amendment, but that it is rather by chance that we do not accept them. there are three groups of amendments. the first concerns amendments introducing actions and objectives which are not covered by the media programme. for example, as commendable as the amendment is, the media programme is not designed to meet the needs of disabled citizens, which would require, for example, adapting cinemas in some member states. we simply cannot afford to invest in this area. however, it is a policy which, of course, we support morally. the second group concerns actions or objectives already covered by the programme. so they must not be repeated. for example, it is useless to add a priority which is already a real line of action in the programme. the third group of amendments concerns one of the priorities of the programme - which is absolutely essential to me - namely the need to reduce imbalances in the audiovisual market between countries with a high audiovisual production capacity or a limited geographical and linguistic area. this priority is fundamental to the media programme. the proposed amendments would have the effect - unintentionally, i am sure - of limiting the actions proposed by the commission in favour of the new member states. nor would they strengthen co-productions, which for me, and i believe for you, are one of the essential elements of better collaboration across borders. i therefore reject certain amendments in order to ensure that they do not interfere with some of the fundamental priorities of the new text. i would like to pin two other amendments: one on the constitutional treaty and one on the opening up of the programme to third countries. as regards the constitutional treaty, the commission's position is that it will not accept such references until the treaty has been ratified. as regards the second, it is desirable to follow the approach already established and to envisage such cooperation in the appropriate context, namely that of the follow-up to the conclusions of the thessaloniki european council. that being the case, mr president, madam rapporteur, i would like to say that in the light of the very large majority, of almost all the amendments proposed by parliament, the commission will amend its proposal. i thank you again for the work that parliament has done.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. media 2007 is the third generation of the media programme for european film funding. the main objective of this programme is twofold: we want to contribute to the promotion of european culture across borders, but at the same time we want to promote the important future-oriented jobs in the audiovisual sector. media 2007 is a community project and i would like to thank the commission - and in particular you, commissioner reding - for the excellent cooperation you have shown, including with your staff. i would also like to thank the luxembourg and british presidencies for their good cooperation and, of course, especially my colleagues in the committee on culture and in all the committees which have been consulted. media 2007 is a programme which is still urgently needed. the european film industry is still in a minority position in europe. on average, 70% of the films in our cinemas are still american in origin. there are three main reasons for this. firstly, our great wealth - the cultural diversity and linguistic diversity of europe - creates very small audiovisual markets. secondly, these markets are dominated by small and mediumsized enterprises. thirdly, these companies suffer from regular undercapitalisation. in this context, we urgently need the media programme for the next seven years. at the same time, we can see that media is a very successful programme. nine out of ten european films shown outside their home country are supported by media. the only thing that is needed is to increase the overall market share of european cinema. the third programme will therefore essentially continue to focus on the priorities of training, development, distribution and promotion. production remains the responsibility of the member states. what changes does the programme envisage? the first is a significant financial expansion. i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for her firm call from the outset for an extension to eur 1 055 billion. you can be sure, the council can be sure, that the european parliament as a whole will not be prepared to go below that amount. it is the least we need for the audiovisual sector in the next seven years. what else has changed? the emphasis in all areas is on digitisation. this is the technology of the future, which will have to be implemented and expanded in the next few years. the second point is to strengthen cooperation at all levels. the european union's participation in the audiovisual observatory and closer cooperation with eurimages are some of the main points. but it's also about strengthening networks. let me conclude by saying something about the motions for resolutions which are still before us. the proposals of the union for a europe of nations group on the protection of young people have been presented here. we are all in favour of youth protection, but the film programme is not a programme to strengthen youth protection in particular, we have other programmes for that. that is why we cannot follow you at this point. but all in all, my sincere thanks! we have worked together on this programme, and this is the best basis for further success.
the commission has already done so. mr blokland, i think you have done a very good job. you have now proved that you are quite willing to compromise by the end of the compromise. this is a good omen for waste management! there are, however, a number of points in this proposal which i would like to address. the proposal to include animal by-products in the waste legislation is illogical, yes, it is dangerous. animal by-products are already strictly regulated under regulation (ec) no 1774/2002. this lex specialis prescribes very precisely how animal by-products are to be collected, transported, processed and used. for example, it regulates how vehicles and containers are to be disinfected and cleaned. this regulation is therefore stricter and clearer than the waste legislation. as requested in the council's common position, animal by-products must be generally excluded for the sake of clarity of the legal situation. trying to involve them here is dangerous, too. in regulation (ec) no 1774/2002 we have had a lapse. the exceptions provide that dead animals may also be buried as waste. this has led some government agencies to ban animal cemeteries and to encourage people to bury their dead animals in landfills - because this is covered by waste legislation. this confusion is unacceptable. therefore, that point should be deleted from this regulation. this is extremely important. a few thoughts on the move: we have a compromise, and we will see how it works out. but first we must prevent the waste management from being removed from the internal market and the internal market from being a place where no waste is shipped. that would be wrong. secondly, we must prevent the re-communalisation of waste management, which is perhaps something that some countries like to do, in order to burden their own businesses and thus prevent shipments. we need to make sure that doesn't happen. then we have a good compromise!
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament, the committee on the environment and in particular the rapporteur, mrs doyle, for the excellent work she has done on this report for the second reading. the proposals we are discussing today are an important part of the community's policy on climate change. fluoride is a very potent greenhouse gas. in the european climate change programme, legislation to limit fluorinated gas emissions has been identified as one of the key measures for the european union to achieve its kyoto protocol target. the draft proposals under discussion today will make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union. this reduction is estimated at approximately 21 million tonnes of co2 equivalent per year until 2010 and 40-50 million tonnes of co2 equivalent per year after 2020, when the proposed measures will have been fully implemented. in the council the commission proposal on fluorinated gases was discussed during the irish and dutch presidencies and it soon became clear that it would have to be reworded to some extent. the council finally decided to change the form of the commission proposal, but kept it as a package of measures with a directive specifically on the issue of hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs) in mobile air-conditioning systems (mac) for motor vehicles, and a regulation covering the remaining issues of the original proposal. the council also considered that a directive should be based on article 95 only, because it would be part of the type-approval system, and that a regulation should have as its legal basis article 175 in conjunction with article 95, as regards articles 7, 8 and 9 of the regulation. the commission agreed to this change as the two elements are seen as a whole package that secures the environmental ambitions of the original proposal. the change in format also reflects parliament's desire to address the issue of macs through type approval legislation. i would like to stress here that i will be following closely the development of certain outstanding issues in parliament and in the council, in particular the very serious question of the legal basis on which the environment committee of parliament wants the regulation on fluorinated gases to be based solely on article 175. the outcome of the vote on this matter in plenary will be of particular importance. i would also like to add that the commission welcomes measures taken by several member states to reduce greenhouse gases. recent reports indicate that several member states will need additional measures to achieve the targets they have committed to. action to reduce fluorinated gases is therefore an effective means to this end. the commission simply wishes to ensure that these measures and actions do not infringe other obligations under the treaties which member states must comply with, such as those relating to the internal market. the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection are intended to ensure that the commission is able to take account of the concerns of consumers and the environment. the commission has always maintained that a full technical and economic assessment is required before deciding whether a product or equipment containing fluorinated gases should be banned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the new prohibitions proposed by the committee on the environment. it is worth noting that the review, four years after the entry into force of the regulation, provides for the examination of possible additional prohibitions. the commission considers many of the other changes incorporated in the common position, as well as the amendments proposed to parliament, to be improvements to its original proposal. they improve definitions and clarify the text, while enhancing transparency and accountability. the commission also accepted some amendments to the common position, for example the new article on labelling, which goes beyond its original proposal, and the article on the revision of the regulation, which was substantially strengthened and made more specific. as regards the mac emissions directive, the commission supports parliament's proposal to phase out fluorinated greenhouse gases from macs using the type approval procedure instead of a system of transferable quotas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission is willing to welcome any possibility of compromise which may arise with regard to the amendments voted by parliament. i hope that we shall be able to complete the procedure in this case as soon as possible. we need the new regulation and the new directive without delay to start contributing to the reduction of fluorinated gas emissions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also clear that this will send a really positive and timely message as we embark - today to be precise - on the second phase of the european programme on climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council of ministers. however, it is becoming increasingly difficult to understand environmental protection measures when the legal basis of article 175 is implemented differently in each country, thus jeopardising the proper functioning of the internal market. it is not as the council proposes, but there are differences between countries and there are disruptions of the internal market. i can therefore only plead that we accept the dual legal basis of article 175 and article 95. that is necessary in this case; i would also be in favour of a single legal basis. but then i would have to plead for article 95 and that is not quite right. we as a parliament have always stood up for the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises. in the air conditioning sector, small and mediumsized enterprises in particular are concerned and critical of our target position. the ambitious target of achieving the environmentally important switch-over of air conditioners away from fluorinated greenhouse gases by 2011 is welcome but poses problems for smes. the commission has therefore decided to grant a derogation to the council. if the number of units produced is less than 50 000 per year, the introduction may take two years longer, i.e. not until 2013. unfortunately, the council has not adopted this proposal. but since i consider it necessary to guarantee flexibility in implementation and to allow a successful transition in all areas, i have tabled an amendment which has been tabled by the various political groups. what's this all about? it is only intended to provide for the possibility for small series manufacturers to obtain type approval after 1 january 2013 for vehicles still operated under the old procedure. this is an opportunity we should also give to small businesses. it is not just the car manufacturers, but also the suppliers. i therefore ask for your agreement to this amendment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on the directive on mobile air conditioners, my group and the majority of this parliament will follow the sensible path of the rapporteur and adopt the common position without major changes. it is a good compromise. with the gwp limit of 150, we achieve a 90% reduction in emissions. the 2011 deadlines for new types and 2017 for new models are ambitious enough from an environmental point of view and also feasible for manufacturers. the call to reintroduce the greenhouse effect 50 has already been rejected in the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the gwp limit value of 50 has no significant greenhouse effect compared to the limit value of 150. this is not the case with the car industry, but with the british impact assessment, the commission and the swedish ministry of the environment. with gwp 50 we would eliminate all alternatives to co2 as a coolant for mobile air conditioners. the legislator should not prescribe a single technology for industry. we must leave this to the engineers and encourage competition between environmentally friendly alternatives. the legal basis is the central point of the f-gas regulation. it is not clear why we should choose a different legal basis for stationary air conditioners than for mobile air conditioners. in both cases, the legislation is product-oriented for the internal market. in order to ensure planning certainty, legal certainty and common standards in the internal market, the legal basis should be article 95. this is a clear commitment to high environmental standards, but also to a functioning internal market where everyone is treated equally. in these days when we often talk about better regulation, i would like to recall in this particular case the problems with the implementation of the electronic waste directive, which is based on article 175.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has dealt with this matter. i would like to thank the rapporteur from my group very warmly for her excellent work. the message we are sending out with this common position is a positive one. we're showing that we're serious about the kyoto protocol goals, that we're trying to set an example for the rest of the world here - an example in terms of ambitious climate targets and also in terms of reducing these f-gases. i would have wished, however, that the legal affairs committee of the european parliament had delivered its necessary opinion in time to give us some indications as to the legal basis. i personally support the dual legal basis under articles 95 and 175 as set out in the common position. i do not say this because i have something against the environment, but because i want the whole european market and the european environment to be maintained and developed according to common high standards. i believe that article 95 is a good basis for a common legal basis and that we can achieve more common ground here than if we give too many options to individual member states in accordance with article 175. i also see it as a problem that by this exemption under article 175 we are sending a message to our citizens that we are not acting together here.
president of the commission. mr president, i welcome this opportunity to exchange views with parliament on issues that are at the forefront of our concerns. on 12 october, when parliament expressed its wish to have this debate, i made myself available on the very same day and i was ready to go to parliament the same evening. unfortunately it was not possible to make a suitable agenda arrangement. i am glad that it is now possible to have this discussion. this debate was triggered by a case pending in the swedish and european courts. it concerns what is known as the laval case. i realise that there are strong political sensitivities on all sides and difficult issues to be dealt with. i have personally discussed this case with the prime ministers of sweden and latvia and i am fully aware of the importance that is attached to it. the commission is still waiting for the european court to forward to us the question referred for a preliminary ruling. we will then examine the case carefully and submit our views in an amicus curiae brief to the court, as we do in all proceedings of this kind. obviously, once the court has given its judgment the commission is at the disposal of all parties to analyse the situation and possible solutions as required. given that it was possible to find equitable solutions in other situations, of which the posting of workers directive is but one example, the commission remains convinced that it is possible to reconcile the four freedoms under the european treaties with the different social models chosen by the member states. the role of the commission is to ensure that both the social acquis and the internal market legislation are respected and fully implemented in all member states, without discrimination. as a matter of principle, the commission respects the different social models chosen by the member states. it recognises that the swedish model has a successful record of combining high employment with flexibility for companies and also with social justice. the swedish system is clearly a model which provides adaptability in a globalised society. in particular the commission acknowledges that, in view of its successful record, sweden did not feel it necessary to request transitional periods for the access of workers from the new member states to the swedish labour market. the issues raised must also be seen in their broader economic and political context. they demonstrate the need to advance our agenda for growth and jobs in order to achieve stronger social and economic cohesion. as i said at the beginning, this debate was triggered by a court case. first and foremost we should wait for the court to deliver its judgment. let me make it clear: this parliament is not a court, it is a political body and a political debate is needed. this is a matter of substance, not just of legal interpretation. the essential questions are clear. are we for or against solidarity in an enlarged union? are we for or against economic and social cohesion to reduce imbalances in a union of 25 members? are we for or against the free movement of workers, with full respect for the national legislation and social frameworks of the member states? are we for or against a european budget capable of effectively promoting economic and social cohesion? those are the questions that lie behind this debate and on which we need to express our views. we have to be prepared for cases like this in the future. in an enlarged union, these problems might well arise. it is interesting to recall that in 1986, when spain and portugal became members of the european community, spanish and portuguese workers were seen as a threat by many of the existing european community members. the solution was not protection within each market but the promotion of economic and social cohesion. the general issue, therefore, is how we reduce imbalances and actively promote prosperity, so that our union is really united and has no artificial divisions. (applause)i hope that all those who are for social solidarity, social cohesion and economic cohesion will fight for the ambitious financial perspectives and active social and economic cohesion policy we need in an enlarged europe. we need to promote union, not artificial boundaries. let me now give the floor to commissioner mccreevy. as you know, as the commissioner for the internal market he has special responsibility for defending the internal market principles that are enshrined in our treaties. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, let me confirm that the commission does not call into question the organisation of labour relations and the system of collective agreements in sweden or indeed any other member state. it is entirely a matter for each member state to determine how labour relations are organised and whether or not its system includes collective bargaining. the commission recognises the important role that collective agreements play in bringing stability and predictability to economic and social relations in the many member states that utilise these methods. at the opening of the brussels sitting earlier this month, reference was made to the fact that i had recently stated that the scandinavian model of collective agreements was not compatible with the ec treaty. those who know me will be very much aware that i have vigorously supported collective agreements in the member state i know best. in my home country, i have been directly involved in more national partnership negotiations than any previous irish minister for finance. in my time in that office, i was regarded, together with my prime minister, as the leading government defender of the model of irish social partnership. during a recent visit to a number of member states, including latvia and sweden, the press asked me about the ongoing investigation in what is known as the laval case. it is a case involving a latvian construction company, laval, that won a tender to build a school in vaxholm in sweden. as a result of a dispute on whether laval had to sign up to the swedish collective agreement and whether it had to pay the average swedish wage in the construction sector, the swedish construction trade union blocked the construction site. the action taken by the swedish construction trade union eventually led laval to terminate the contract and the company ultimately went bankrupt. the matter was brought before the swedish labour court, which in turn referred the matter to the european court of justice for a preliminary ruling. the fact that the swedish labour court referred the matter to the european court of justice demonstrates that the legal situation is complicated. whether the swedish authorities and the trade union were right in how they handled this case will be determined by the swedish labour court in the light of the ruling that will be given by the european court of justice. the commission will be invited to present its analysis of the situation and all the legal elements, including article 49 of the treaty on the freedom to provide services and the application of the posted workers directive. this analysis is complex and will take some time. the commission has not yet formed a view on this. those are the facts of the matter. as to the broader question of how the commission sees the development of the internal market and the european social model, let me stress that, for the commission, the development of the internal market and the preservation of the european social model go hand in hand. they are not mutually exclusive; they reinforce each other. the internal market creates new opportunities for businesses, consumers and workers. this allows the preservation and further development of social rights, in accordance with the collective preferences of each individual member state. the commission has an onerous duty in making sure that the basic rights and freedoms set down in the treaty are respected throughout the union. as guardian of the internal market, i exercise my responsibilities in an even-handed manner. to be credible, there is no alternative. i find it extraordinary that i should have to justify remarks i made on an incident that raise questions about its compatibility with article 49 of the treaty. i was not the first to raise this question. it was the swedish labour court that asked whether there is incompatibility with community law, in particular the posting of workers directive, article 49 on the free movement of services and article 12 on non-discrimination. this happens to be a ‘sensitive’ issue in a member state. but does the mere fact that an issue is sensitive deprive me of my right to express a view or carry out my duty? i believe in the necessity for the commission to be impartial and fair in the exercise of its duties. i will continue to voice my opinions loud and clear. i do not care if it means upsetting some people. i passionately believe in the primary role of the commission to ensure the rules of the treaty are applied and i will vigorously defend that role. i have sworn to do so. (applause from the right)there are 25 member states in the union. i make no distinction between them. just because latvia is a new member state and one of the smallest, that does not mean its complaints are less important. latvian trade union members are entitled to have their interests defended as much as swedish trade union members. (applause from the right) neither i nor the commission call into question the social model of any member state or the way in which it organises labour relations. one of the strengths of the union is its diversity. i have my views about what is good for the economy. i have never hidden these views. i also have my views about how the challenges and opportunities arising from globalisation should be addressed and i do not believe it is an option to maintain barriers and try to pretend that competition does not exist, or can be kept outside the borders. however, i have never said that there is a single recipe for running every economy. there is no single recipe for organising labour relations and there is no single recipe for a social model. what works in one country might not work for another. i will therefore not express any view on whether the social model of one member state is better or worse than that of another. that is a matter for political choice in each country and i know that every system will find supporters and critics. the truth lies, most of the time, in the middle. no single system has only advantages. every system and every choice has downsides. choices and preferences may also change. what is good now may not necessarily be so in five years’ time. the subject being discussed today is not whether the social system of a country is under threat or whether that system is an example to others. the real issue for me is what we mean by an internal market. what do article 49 of the treaty and the freedom to provide services mean? what do article 12 and the principle of non-discrimination mean? no one has questioned the enormous benefits the internal market brings, the extra growth and the extra jobs it has created. we should not be afraid of the internal market. we should embrace it. we have a union of 25 member states. the world is not waiting for us to take advantage of the internal market we live in. others will do it for us if we do not wake up. i will defend the rights laid down in the treaty. i will continue to apply its provisions in an even-handed way. but if members of this house expect me to creep around quietly and not upset some member states and some members of the european parliament, then i am afraid that they are going to be disappointed. (applause from the right)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, our group believes that it is the natural right of parliament to invite members of the commission to come here and to ask for their opinion, including the president of the commission. the president of the commission has indicated that he was very much prepared to appear in brussels, which is his duty if parliament so requests. the fact that this did not happen was the fault of the applicants and not the president of the commission. so i want to thank you for being here today, which is your duty. the stockholm statements by commissioner mccreevy were not about challenging the swedish social model. it was not an attack on the swedish social partners' collective bargaining unit. it was not a question of the european services directive, and it was not a question of a decision to be taken by parliament, the council or the commission, but of a procedure before the european court of justice. when commissioner mccreevy said in stockholm at the beginning of october that the commission was supporting a latvian construction company in a dispute with a swedish construction union, he was doing what the commission is obliged to do under the treaties, namely to act as the guardian of the law, in this case the right to freedom of service. he did not thereby challenge the traditional swedish system of collective agreements, but he did try to make it clear that this system, like all others, must respond to the establishment of the internal market. i would like to point out that other countries - for example, mr schulz, the country from which you come - have already taken action, by making use of the possibilities offered by the posting of workers directive in the construction sector, or by taking advantage of the possibility, agreed in the accession negotiations, of introducing transitional arrangements for workers from the countries of the last enlargement. apparently the swedish government wants to distract from its own failings. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) it is not otherwise that the swedish minister for economic affairs has tried to put pressure on the european institutions by threatening to withdraw his country's support for the services directive. we cannot accept that and it is clear. (applause from the right) the services directive has nothing whatsoever to do with the present case. it is a question of interpreting the existing law, which no one wants to change. i would like to say explicitly on behalf of our group, the epp-ed group, that no one among us wants to change or even restrict the scope of employment and collective agreements with the services directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (applause from the right) of course, we have to be very sensitive and take people's fears seriously. the two failed referenda in the spring made this clear. but it is not a sign of political fate to always shift the blame and responsibility to brussels. if the statements of a member of the commission are used as a pretext to cover up their own mistakes and omissions, the european parliament cannot say yes. the people of central and eastern europe have been very successful in their struggle for freedom, democracy and self-determination. they have thus won their right to join the community of the european union. we believe that they should enjoy all the rights that go with it and not be treated as second-class europeans. that's what this is about. we'll be measured by that. we do not allow this european community to be excluded, to be divided into citizens, into first and second-class states, but we are a common european union and as such we are in solidarity. we are defending our social model, and that includes the single market, because it is the only chance we have of being competitive on a global scale. these are the principles on which our group stands. (applause from the right)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. this debate is helpful because it shows - and the applause is there to show - where this commission stands. you are not in the middle, you are clearly not all the commissioners, but you, mr mccreevy and mr barroso, it has become clear this morning that you are not in the middle of european politics, you are clearly on the right-wing, neoliberal course that my group is fighting against today, tomorrow and on other days! (applause from the left) you are right: we welcome all the new member states of the european union, all of them! we social democrats are also fighting for romania and bulgaria. do it again with the same intensity. but we welcome them for one reason: we want social progress in europe and the safeguarding of the social standards we have achieved. we do not want the workers of sweden to be played off against the workers of latvia. that is what you want, that is your methodology to destroy europe! (applause from the left) the subject on the agenda was framed by the chairman of the socialist party of europe, mr poul nyrup rasmussen, in three simple questions in preparation for our debate today. i ask you these three questions and i ask you to answer them clearly. the first question, mr president of the commission, is: does the commission consider that trade unions have the right to strike, including the right to strike, for example, of the swedish trade unions in defence of collective agreements? secondly, does the commission consider that the nordic way of the social model is compatible with the rules of the internal market? i ask you, mr barroso, because if i listen to mr mccreevy, it seems to me that this is not compatible. the message from mccreevy is that if my interpretation of article 49 is accepted, the swedish model will have no place in europe. our answer to that is that your interpretation of article 49 will not be accepted in europe, mr mccreevy, at least not as long as the social democrats are voting in this parliament! (applause from the left) the third question we put to you, mr barroso, is that we need a clear statement of the commission's position vis-à-vis the european court of justice in the vaxholm case. what specific position will you take? the debate is not about more or less - and that is why we have asked the president of the commission and the commissioner to be here - but about the question: in what direction do we want to develop this european union? what is the purpose of this european union? the citizens of europe have concerns and they have wishes. the concerns and wishes are addressed to us here in the european parliament, but they are also addressed to the commission. the people of europe want jobs, but they do not want jobs based on chinese wages and asian working conditions. they want a decent income for a secure job, with which they can achieve a reasonably functioning future for themselves and their children. this is the european social model. we want to defend that! but if i listen to you, mr mccreevy, it means that the free market in europe means the lowest standard of income, the lowest standard of social security, the lowest standard of workers' rights as the best competitive factor for growth. no, this is the wrong way! (applause from the left) the european social model of the partnership between capital and labour is a recipe for success! i repeat: we want to strengthen our latvian colleagues, we want to strengthen our czech colleagues! my colleague richard falbr, a czech trade unionist, will be commenting on this shortly. it cannot be that the aim of european social policy is to level wages downwards. i'm not going to. the progress in growth and economic growth in the new countries, which is also being triggered by the eu's structural policy in the czech republic, the baltic states, slovakia and slovenia, this technical progress, this process of economic growth must be accompanied by the participation of workers in this growth! that means higher wages for the workers there, more trade union rights for the workers there, and not less rights in sweden, not levelling down. that would be the mccreevy system we're against! (applause from the left) we expect you, mr president of the commission, to say where you stand at this point. last week you gave a speech on social policy. it was also about social policy. you proposed and called for an intervention fund. we are in favour of this, but we cannot allow this intervention fund to be used for the victims of mccreevy's policies. we'd be against it! i am not saying that we should be in favour of the commission. if you are in favour of a clear commitment to the european social model, then you must finally put the brakes on charlie mccreevy, neelie kroes and other members of your commission! you have the means to do so! if you do, you can count on our support. if your system is to continue to level down the free movement of people in europe, the social standards, then the socialist group is in opposition to your commission! (applause from the left)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner mccreevy, with your permission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the swedish system of collective agreements is not in conformity with the treaty and the freedom to provide services. they anticipated a court judgment and they have above all called into question the protection of workers as part of the european internal market. the freedom to provide services has always been compatible with the protection of workers, in particular in the posting of workers directive. the freedom to provide services must continue to take into account the protection of workers if we are to build a social europe that is not just a figurehead. the social committee has therefore concluded that the services directive you are defending is not compatible with the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights, because it calls into question the protection of workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. a competitive europe needs a social dimension. competition also requires fair working conditions and equal treatment for workers. as commissioner for the internal market, you are also committed to a policy of worker protection, not just a one-sided policy of self-interest.
the commission has already done so. if we want to protect ourselves in europe, we should have been providing assistance in asia years ago, namely technical assistance for the problem that a large part of our meat production is already taking place in asia in large-scale livestock farms. the problem we have is that these technically advanced animals are coming into contact with regional breeds, wild animals that carry the virus in them without being clinically ill. if mass livestock production is affected, we are dealing with mutations and variations that can become dangerous for humans. it is certainly useful to provide technical assistance here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is more the cage industry's interest that is behind this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, commissioner, thank you very much for making such a clear statement that the eu and the member states are relatively well prepared. you have also focused on the protection of poultry as a whole and not just on the issue of a possible pandemic. that's a sober explanation that will help us all. i myself have worked for 15 years as a veterinarian in the poultry industry in the animal disease organisation and i could say something about many things, including vaccination of poultry. i'm not going to do that because i don't have time. on monday we were in dublin with some colleagues at the food and veterinary office. the work of the 160 experts who are working around the world to advise you and the member states is to be appraised positively. although there is not enough global cooperation, there are some good first steps. today there's a conference in canada, the who has been in southeast asia. there is much more to be done here, and that is at the root of the problem. a second point: the inadequacy of the vaccination regime in the event of a pandemic has already been stated by mr bowis and others. the spanish flu of 1918 with its 50 million deaths has also been mentioned. so that means that we need to change the way we manufacture vaccines, and that we can work much faster on cell cultures like mps is also self-evident. thirdly, virostatics against influenza. who orders, who stores, who pays? with five years of shelf life for these drugs, it's worth making a plan. fourth, africa is missing from the discussion. what happens when migratory birds reach africa? as in southeast asia, the people live in close contact with their poultry, and there is a risk of infection. who's in charge here? we're sure we are, too. fifthly, i would like to thank the conservationists, the bird watchers and the hunters, as well as all the non-governmental organizations, who have taken on the great responsibility of monitoring migratory birds and sharing their findings. the final question is not if, but when a pandemic will come. that is where we should focus our attention.
i have to say, madam president, i have a request to you and the house, that we send a letter of condolence to the people of mexico. we should write a letter to the government and say that we have a free trade agreement and a special agreement with mexico, and that given the damage caused by the hurricane, we have every sympathy for the people of mexico. we should also consider, together with the commission and the council, the possibilities offered by this agreement for providing assistance in certain cases. i am not talking about financial aid, but aid in general. i would be very grateful, madam president, if you could ensure that such a letter is written.
i shall pass this on to the president of parliament. i am sure mr borrell will be grateful for the suggestion and will write such a letter. i am also convinced that you will be happy to provide him with expertise and to have formulations for him. i should like to make a few comments on the commission's statement on bulgaria and romania: progress towards accession. i am doing that too, but i am waiting a moment in the hope that the commissioner will manage to come back to us from the commission meeting, because in the commission's statement on bulgaria and romania: progress towards accession, it would be sensible if we would first listen to mr rehn. otherwise we would have entered the debate immediately. i think the honourable members would like to hear the commissioner before they speak. i am grateful for the advice of the various groups, but i will wait a moment. i look at the commission's benches, which are not completely empty, and try to see if they can give me an idea of when we can expect the commissioner.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on bulgaria and romania: progress towards accession.
i am sorry, that is not a point of order. i have cut off your microphone. you can make a point order if you wish, but please tell me the rule. just simply asking the commission to be on time is all very well but not very polite, especially when the commissioner told you that he left the commission meeting. we are not going to have a discussion about that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not always agree with the commissioner on this, but as chairman of the committee on foreign affairs i must say that he is very cooperative with parliament and is also available to the committee when necessary. i would like to thank him for this and for his comment on the procedure agreed upon by parliament last spring when it ratified the treaty, whereby parliament is consulted once again before the commission takes a final decision to refer the matter to the council as regards the date of accession. we need to see that these countries have made progress. these countries are part of the group of twelve, of which 10 have been admitted; the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity. the question is whether this should be done on 1 january 2007 or one year later, in accordance with the treaties, with the possibility of repealing entire chapters up to three years after accession if the necessary implementation has not been done. i am sure that our rapporteurs and the committee on foreign affairs will be very critical with the commission in examining the conditions for 1 january 2007. i would call today's statement by the commission a 'yellow card'. the countries have the chance to make up for lost time due to domestic political circumstances, but very dramatic issues have been raised, where there are strong concerns, such as the absorption capacity of these countries, the functioning of the internal market and similar issues. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including those relating to the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the development of the administration so that the internal market can function in the interests of these countries and the european union. the constitution is not a condition for accession, but since the failed ratification we have problems with the constitutional process. we are talking about additional problems which we must not burden ourselves with if the conditions are not met. these are at least questions that we must examine critically. the questions of corruption and organized crime, internal security and the problems raised by the commission in connection with the external borders are also extremely important, and they concern our citizens. if the european union is to be able to develop in the eyes of our citizens, it must be clear that such things are not automatic, but that we must seriously examine the conditions and act on the basis of serious consideration of the matter and not on the basis of political arbitrariness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months. we want these countries to be members of the european union, but we also need to create the conditions for this to work. i therefore welcome the invitation from the commission to my group, and perhaps also to the committee on foreign affairs, to work very closely together to reach the right decision in the spring of next year. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased that we are holding this first debate on this subject in the presence of our observers. i think that's a very good thing. i would like to join in thanking the commission for the excellent work it has done. my group also agrees with the procedure adopted with the recommendation next spring, with parliament's involvement, as mr moscovici has just said. i would like to say a few words about bulgaria. it is not surprising that, after a period of campaigning and government formation, the commission's latest progress report is more critical than in the past. that is why i want to say clearly from the very beginning: my group supports bulgaria's path towards the european union. we expect the necessary reforms to be pursued with more discipline and determination than last year. what counts are the benefits, because it is these benefits which will be decisive in the assessment of the accession treaties by the national parliaments. bulgaria has made enormous progress. the country is clearly on the fast track in terms of its economic balance sheet. thanks to its dynamism and growth of 6.2% i wish i could say the same about my country foreign investors gain confidence and discover bulgaria as a place to invest. the considerable economic successes of bulgaria are due mainly to the far-sighted policies of the last government. yet, the most beautiful roses remain invisible when overgrown by weeds. the achievements cannot flourish if corruption and legal uncertainty are rampant and overdue reforms are not implemented. looking at the judicial sector, the adoption of the new code of criminal procedure by the bulgarian parliament on 15 october is an important step in the right direction, but it has taken too long. the practical implementation of the reform must now be carried out without delay. the fight against corruption: progress in tackling small-scale corruption is to be welcomed. it is now important that corruption is also brought to the forefront of attention and fought against in a sustained manner at the top levels of politics, business and administration. bulgaria is ranked 55th by transparency international. the paradox is that this sounds bad at first, but when you realize that turkey is ranked 65th, croatia is ranked 70th, and romania is ranked 85th, you can see that bulgaria has already achieved quite a bit on this front. let me be clear: neither the commission - i am not sure, commissioner - nor parliament expects miracles from bulgaria. everyone here is aware that progress requires painful reforms and cannot be achieved overnight. we want the bulgarian government to make progress where it can. this brings me to the subject of minority policy, which is of particular importance to my group! the bulgarian administration has so far failed to fill the national council for cooperation on ethnic and demographic issues with the 15 experts it was intended to have. this is not a good step towards integrating roma into bulgarian society. the implementation of this framework programme remains vague and unclear. paper is patient, we are not! lack of ambition is not what bulgaria should be doing at this crucial juncture in its history. in conclusion, the critical words of the commission and my group are not intended to discourage the bulgarian government. quite the opposite. they should be seen as an encouragement to take the final step towards accession with the necessary determination and seriousness. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
mr beazley, that was not a point of order. nevertheless, i will pass on the message to the president of parliament and he can tell the uk presidency that we always appreciate its presence in the chamber.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as expected, the progress report presented today confirms that bulgaria and romania do not yet meet the copenhagen criteria. the criticism is justified. given my experience with the eu accession problems of the visegrad states and my knowledge of the romanian and bulgarian accession agendas, i am very sceptical about the date of 1 january 2007. why would you do that? i have just recently been a member of a delegation of the subcommittee on human rights to bucharest, and the talks have unfortunately confirmed my position. we had the opportunity to speak with representatives of governmental institutions, but also with various ngos. these encounters reminded me of my experiences with post-totalitarian regimes. the government representatives were self-critical, but ultimately they were not very meaningful. in meetings with ngos, and even more so in private discussions, the situation in the various areas of the negotiations was described in a much clearer, more sober and more dramatic way. this is also gradually true of talks with bulgarian representatives. we are dealing with a part of a virtual reality. it's not much use signing papers if there's no implementation. the conclusions drawn from all these problems are clear: an opaque legal system, organised crime, minority and roma issues, corruption, problems in agriculture and the environment. unfortunately, it is foreseeable - even in view of the natural disasters that have struck the two countries - that they will have a hard time in the short term. they will have to make a great effort until 2008.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after so many football metaphors, perhaps you'll allow me to make a few remarks about the rules of the game. this is not a second debate on whether bulgaria or romania should join. the decision has already been taken and i am glad to have the observers with us today. but i would like to make two comments about ourselves and the two countries. first of all, mr van orden has called for strong action to combat corruption and crime. in some of his press releases he has explicitly mentioned human and drug trafficking. at the same time, however, he has already stated more or less openly that there is no question of postponing the accession scheduled for 2007. i would say to us that if such a link were to be established, it would mean the bankruptcy of the theory that accession to the eu is an incentive for internal reforms. for if the pressure is removed, what incentive is there for internal reform, especially since the admission is guaranteed? i would therefore like to make it quite clear that there is no predetermination of the date. they're in on it. the commission will be able to decide at what time. this is entirely dependent on the performance of the two eligible countries in the remaining period. no one else did. there can be no advance payments from the european union or any discounts. i feel that not every aspect of the acquis communautaire is equally important. i believe that for the security needs of the citizens of the european union, the fight against crime and the securing of the external borders may be a little more important than the number of insured cars, although from the perspective of the motorist this may be seen a little differently. but i think there are different hierarchies of problems. that is why i say that each country will be judged separately. it has been very convenient to ride in a procession in which the weaknesses of one country have been covered up by the strengths of the other. but that time is over. from now on, each country will be judged individually.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing many subjects here, but we are discussing too little about the central subject, which is the european union itself. what is in the interest of the european union and the european citizens? firstly, the process of enlargement to include romania and bulgaria, which we wholeheartedly welcome, is actually succeeding. i do not like the fixation on any accession dates. it is of course in our interest that romania, bulgaria and croatia become members of the european union during this parliamentary term - before the 2009 european elections. but whether that happens six months earlier or later is less important to me than the fact that the community acquis is actually being implemented. mr horáček is quite right when he points out that it is not the paper that counts here, but reality. the commission, parliament and the council have the duty, in the coming months, to observe with our romanian and bulgarian friends the actual developments in these countries and to judge them accordingly, not according to any sentiment or resentment. the second important point is the copenhagen criteria. these copenhagen criteria were deliberately developed for the last enlargement and in addition to the acquis. we must not allow them to be watered down, because watered down copenhagen criteria will have a negative and dangerous effect on future enlargements. the third and final point: we should clearly recognise that enlargement to include romania, bulgaria and croatia is an important step. but then we should stop running around and granting accession status. we should not be giving accession status to anyone for the next few years. i mean, perspective, yeah. southeast europe must have an eu perspective, but we should first consolidate this union. for no one benefits by being absorbed into a union which in the meantime dissolves into a nirvana. that is why we need a clear consolidation of this eu. romania and bulgaria will certainly contribute to this. they are european countries, but they can only make this contribution on the basis of facts and law.
member of the commission. i thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for this excellent debate, which is worthy of the subject. i appreciate the responsible approach adopted by parliament to enlargement policy and look forward to continuing our close, practical and well-functioning cooperation with you. i regret that i am not able to answer all the many questions in this context. i hope that we can continue the dialogue in committee and bilaterally in the form of urgent questions and oral debate. i would like to focus on the three main issues raised in this debate. the importance of the functioning of the judiciary has been emphasised in several speeches, and in fact the reform of the judiciary - both the prosecution and the judiciary - and specifically the effective implementation of these reforms - in practice - is of the utmost importance for the preparation of both countries. this is directly linked to the fight against corruption and organised crime. these reforms must therefore be the mother of all priorities, the priority of all priorities, not least because their impact extends to all areas of life and society, whether it is the access to health services or the environment in which businesses operate. i would like to stress the importance of implementation in general, both in the judicial system and in other areas. the time for strategies and action programmes is over. they're in pretty good shape. we need practical results now: it is time to do more than talk. the most challenging issues in the field of community policy are agricultural and veterinary issues. both countries must achieve a level of food safety that guarantees food safety throughout the eu. the controls at the external borders also require further development. on the other hand, there are also good examples in this area: the response of the authorities in relation to avian influenza in both romania and bulgaria was positive. it was fast, efficient and professional, and thus encouraging for the future. several members asked about genetically modified organisms. i am fully aware that genetically modified soybeans are being grown in romania. on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that eu legislation in this area applies from the date of accession. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. if, at the time of romania's accession to the union, the eu has not authorised the production of genetically modified soybeans, romania will simply have to comply with eu legislation and destroy this soybean production. the commission is monitoring this closely and i can assure you that the situation is under control. the monitoring mechanism we introduced in an improved form a year ago is producing results. the reform of the judiciary and the competition and state aid policy in romania are examples of this. these have been moved from the category of serious concerns to the category where determined work is still needed. the commission will continue to closely monitor the preparations in bulgaria and romania. before finalising the april-may report, the commission will make inspection visits with experts from the member states to assess the most worrying irregularities. in conclusion, i would say that the best service to bulgaria and romania and to the citizens of those countries is that we stick to the terms. the report therefore focuses not only on the progress made but also on the shortcomings that still exist in order to support the reform policies of these countries and their governments. opportunity policy thus acts as a force for social change and is at the heart of enlargement policy. this is the hall where football comparisons have been made. mr lagendijk has started this and, as he certainly rightly thinks he is the incarnation of johan cruyff, i can conclude by saying that for bulgaria and romania, instead of a catenaccio-type defense, it is now worth investing in an offensive, holistic football in the reform policies of both countries. this is not the time for passivity, but for activity and determination.
the debate on this point is closed.
the next item is question time (b6-0332/2005). we are dealing with a number of questions to the commission. part two
member of the commission. i repeat that i am trying to give a clear indication of the state of play to the honourable members. the decision has not yet been taken. at this point, gas natural is of the opinion that it should be dealt with by the national competition authority in spain. that depends not only on figures and on turnover but also on a number of other technical aspects, and at this stage i am unable to give you information about the final decision. as soon as that information is available, i promise that you will be informed.
mr president, what is your point of order?
i'm afraid that's not possible. the rules state that we always have one questioner and two colleagues who can ask questions. you're the third, and i can't let that happen. perhaps you can clarify this later in your conversation with the commissioner.
member of the commission. there are differences between the various member states. most of the legislation has been transposed, but not all. i cannot list just now which countries have transposed all and which only some of the legislation, but we are trying to work closely with the authorities in each country on its transposition. we send teams of experts, often legal experts, and we use the impel system in order to encourage and facilitate the transposition of the environmental legislation in general and the waste legislation in particular.
as the time allotted for this set of questions has been exhausted, questions 53 to 59 will be answered in writing. for unanswered questions, see the annex 'question time'.
member of the commission. i completely agree that the long-term perspective has to be one where israel can work in peace with all its neighbours: above all with a palestinian state, as set out in the roadmap, but also with all its other neighbours. i will also go to barcelona, where we are working specifically towards a new set-up for the next ten years, trying to focus more on education, on cooperation in the economic and commercial fields – not only with the agadir process, which is a south-south process, but also as a whole, meaning investment, agriculture products, and high-level products and services – and on the question of democracy and human rights. indeed, i am travelling around many countries, trying to stimulate them to do more and to implement the action plans we have at the moment.
member of the commission. when such cases are brought to us, we naturally address such cases. i had not heard of this case, but it is obvious that human rights must be respected everywhere. that goes for every traveler just as much as for anyone else.
question no 61 is therefore adjourned, since the author is not present. question no 62 by mr bernd posselt (h-0795/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: south caucasus and the caspian seawhat specific strategy is the commission pursuing to intensify eu cooperation with the three south caucasus states and the caspian sea states?
member of the commission. with regard to the south caucasus and the states bordering the caspian sea, this region and its development have become increasingly important issues since enlargement. i am therefore very happy to say that this has now been included in our neighbourhood policy. this was done last june and since then we have been preparing proposals for draft action plans with each of the three countries concerned. the partner countries themselves are developing their own priorities for such action plans. the commission will start consultations on those action plans very soon. an eu troika is visiting the region as we speak, from 24 to 28 october, and its assessment will indeed be very helpful as we start our discussions. strengthening democracy, the rule of law, improving business and the investment climate for sustainable economic development, and encouraging people-to-people contacts are matters of utmost importance. these are key eu priorities for the whole region. further priorities under the enp include regional cooperation and conflict settlement. the ec countries will, in the meantime, provide substantial support to the partner countries of the south caucasus region and, by way of example, i could cite our deep involvement in the reform of the judiciary in azerbaijan and georgia, our support for institutional, legal and administrative reform in armenia, or our rehabilitation efforts in those parts of georgia especially affected by frozen conflicts, such as south ossetia and abkhazia. we also hope to encourage greater cooperation between and with the countries bordering the caspian sea. let me give just a few examples. we regard the process of eu-black sea/caspian basin energy and transport cooperation, launched at the baku ministerial meeting late last year, as a very important vehicle for encouraging broader regional cooperation. we are also giving due attention to the environmental situation in and around the caspian sea, because it is the largest saltwater lake in the world but also one of the richest oil reserves. so this is a region that will be an increasing focus of our attention under the neighbourhood policy.
i am very grateful to the commissioner for that very good and detailed reply. i would like to ask a supplementary question: there are two very specific problems in the region - one of which you have already mentioned - namely the energy problem and the minority problem, which also involves displacement, separation and many other things. my question is whether there are still plans to hold a conference of the commission or the european institutions on energy issues, and secondly, whether you are also specifically dealing with minority issues, particularly in georgia, azerbaijan and armenia?
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. this means that the question of membership of the european union is deliberately not addressed in the neighbourhood policy. of course, this will never prejudice the future in general, but it is essential that georgia, as well as the two neighbouring countries armenia and azerbaijan, now do everything possible to implement the reforms in their country. this is very important and there is still a lot of work to be done to bring it any closer to the european union. these are countries which will be important friends for us, countries which we are also prepared to include in the single market - if they implement their reforms - and to give them opportunities in the fields of energy, transport and education. we also expect them to take action, of course, particularly on the question of democracy, the rule of law, protection against corruption and many other scourges which are still very much on the agenda in these countries.
member of the commission. i can tell you that of course we are aware of difficulties and obstacles to the european union, especially the funding of civil society activities in tunisia. we are devoting a great deal of attention to trying to resolve these issues. i myself have just visited tunisia, on 12 and 13 october, and i took the opportunity to raise these issues with all the people i spoke to: the prime minister, the minister for cooperation and international development and the minister for foreign affairs. i have also met civil society representatives in tunisia, notably the associations that are encountering difficulties in receiving support from the european union, the tunisian league of human rights and the association of women for research and development. i must say i strongly encouraged the tunisian authorities to rapidly unblock the four projects that are still currently blocked, representing a total of eur 143 000. i have also made it clear that the problems with the implementation of our civil society and governance projects will have very negative consequences for our future financial cooperation with tunisia. i hope that these talks will have an effect and that we will be able to unblock the projects very soon. the future financial envelope for partners including tunisia will, of course, specifically take account of progress on the current projects.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i just explained that i was very active myself. not only have my own services been continuously addressing these issues and addressing these issues at all levels; we have also made it clear that if these projects cannot be completed in the near future, if they are blocked, then there will be no funds for them. so that means a clear conditionality.
as the time allotted for this set of questions has been exhausted, questions nos 64 to 72 will be answered in writing. for unanswered questions, see the annex 'question time'. questions nos 73, 74 and 78 are now obsolete, since the authors are not present.
i cannot do that because we have fixed rules for question time and each commissioner is given 20 minutes. the question by the honourable member, whom i would have liked to have asked, was intended for commissioner ferrero-waldner. the commissioner is no longer present, so your question will now be answered in writing.
member of the commission. firstly, i wish to underline the fact that the whole question of control and enforcement is the primary responsibility of the member states. if the commission receives information that there might be a breach of the acquis, i.e. of the regulations concerning the common fisheries policy, then it will investigate whether the member states are effecting controls. the commission carries out enquiries and it is as a result of these enquiries that infringement proceedings are initiated against member states. this is exactly what has happened with regard to the infringement proceedings against france, italy and spain. it is important to underline that we were hoping to have the mediterranean regulation adopted in the council last month. this would have included a definition of driftnets, which are banned by the 1988 regulation. unfortunately, the council did not adopt this regulation last september. we will be trying our luck again soon, in the hope that we can secure a long overdue regulation governing fisheries in the mediterranean, which would give the commission increased powers to ensure that fisheries are carried out properly and within the limits of sustainability.
as the time allotted for question time has been used up, questions nos 79 to 126 will be answered in writing. for unanswered questions, see the annex 'question time'. question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.25 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
member of the commission. mr president, i understand members’ concerns that the biotechnology directive should be applied correctly. this is important, not just for all those in industry who use patents to support the introduction of new products and processes, but also those who benefit from the availability of the results of research and development. these could be researchers, industrial competitors, patients and medical staff and those who administer health systems. biotechnology covers a wide range of powerful and sometimes controversial technologies. they can make a vital contribution to the long-term future of industries such as pharmaceuticals, food, agriculture, energy, textiles and chemicals. biotechnology also creates new opportunities and prospects for developing life-saving drugs and treating diseases. it offers enormous potential for massively improving the quality of life of many citizens. but success in developing biotechnology also depends on finding solutions to the significant ethical, societal, economic and environmental issues it throws up. directive 98/44/ec establishes well-balanced principles for the protection of biotechnological inventions through patents. it also takes into account the ethical aspects of this sensitive subject, as well as the legitimate desire of industry and others to establish a clear and effective scope for patent protection in this area of technology. let me recall that the purpose of the directive is to establish the legal framework for granting patents, which covers the results of research. it does not in any way replace regulations that govern research in particular areas, including certain ethical rules such as those on human integrity. the commission will continue to follow the application of the directive in practice very carefully, with due regard to ethical, moral and cultural considerations, and will not fail to inform the european parliament, as it has so far done, in the framework of the evaluation reports envisaged in the directive. in terms of the particular areas identified by parliament in the motion for a resolution, i make the following remarks. on purpose-bound protection, the issue is whether patents on gene sequences – dna sequences – should be allowed according to the classical model of patent claim whereby a first inventor can claim an invention that covers possible future uses of that sequence. or should the patent be restricted so that only the specific use disclosed in the patent application can be claimed, which is purpose-bound protection? on examination of the technical provisions of the directive, it can be seen that none of these articles explicitly addresses the concept of a restricted scope of protection relating to the specific use identified for the gene sequence concerned. that might be seen as arguing for the usual broad scope of protection rather than a restricted one, since that has always been the traditional approach in patent law. on the other hand, it might be thought that the community legislator had intended at least to raise the possibility of a limited scope of protection, covering only the specific industrial application identified in the patent as far as this particular type of invention is concerned. that restrictive interpretation should not be incompatible with the directive. the commission will now, in consultation with those involved, consider the consequences of allowing both interpretations of the directive and the best way to achieve a correct application of the directive on human cloning. the directive is clear for the commission as regards the issue of patentability of reproductive cloning involving the creation of new human beings, which is clearly excluded under article 6 of the directive. the term ‘therapeutic cloning’ covers a wide range of different possibilities. research may be permitted in some member states and not in others. for the commission, the use of human pluripotent stem cells to cure diseases is not necessarily excluded from patentability. in light of those arguments, a modification of the directive does not, at this stage, seem appropriate. in conclusion, i would like to recall that biotechnology has enormous potential for good, particularly in medical fields, and patent protection is of great importance to key industrial sectors, which invest heavily in research and development costs. we are working in the context of a global economy, which means our industry and researchers are competing with those in the united states and growing markets such as asia. indeed, according to recent reports chinese companies filed more biotechnology patents in europe in certain sectors last year than european companies did. as i have said, i understand the concerns that some members have raised and i shall listen with interest to the debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's a sensitive subject we're dealing with here tonight. the question was already very controversial before the 1998 directive was adopted some of the colleagues were present. there are different lines of argument, and there are some who are generally against biotechnology. we in the epp group are not part of that. we need biotechnology, we need to use it to solve many of our problems. there are some who are generally against patents. we in the epp group also think that this is wrong. patents are a stimulus for innovation, and designing patents properly helps us move forward. there are some who are generally against the directive because they claim that it enables many things which give rise to horror in them. i think the directive is better than their reputation. we then made clear, after long discussions, that not everything that is possible can be patented in the european union. i have used this argument to defend the directive against criticism from many quarters over the last few years. but we must also ensure that the directive is applied. we must also speak out if we feel that there are breaches of the directive. in february this year the european patent office granted a patent which also includes parts of the human body, namely human sperm cells, as patentable inventions. that is not correct according to the directive. i have studied this patent several times and consulted with patent attorneys. it's a violation of the directive. they patent human sperm. if we find such a breach, we must question it politically. we have been informed by the legal service of the parliament that parliament itself cannot object. but others can do it and others should do it to clarify this question. the directive must be applied, and therefore article 6 (2) must also be applied. it says that techniques that destroy human embryos for commercial or industrial purposes are not patentable. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the present state of technology means that human embryonic stem cells cannot be produced without destroying human embryos. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have the right to decide on the matter. now, it may be argued that there are more recent developments in science. but that's just for experiments in mice, and it took almost 20 years for research on embryonic stem cells to get from mice to humans. thomson's 1998 invention of human embryonic stem cells came almost 20 years after a similar invention in mice. in addition, what was published two weeks ago is, in my interpretation and in the opinion of many experts, nothing more than the cloning of human embryos. that is now out of the question! i would ask you once again to study the matter carefully. i did not intend to criticise the commission tonight, but you have given a wrong interpretation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the directive is not clear on one issue, namely the patenting of human dna. we therefore ask the commission to clarify this. otherwise, the directive is good and we should defend it. (applause from the right)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not commissioner, i am disappointed in your remarks. the design patent is outrageous. the patent is clearly illegal, it clearly violates the patenting directive and it means the commercialisation of human breeding. the patents directive clearly excludes the patenting of germline cells. the same is true of the sex selection procedures, which are prohibited in almost all member states. so this patent opens the door to the designed man, the tailor-made man. it is unacceptable that the eu commission, as guardian of the treaties, should stand by and watch this violation of the eu patent directive. neither parliament nor the commission can stand by and watch the patenting of human breeding. it is not an invention, moreover, but a discovery at the very most, and it is clearly contrary to the patents directive. we need a clear position from the european union. the commission is sticking its head in the sand in the face of the contradictions and the errors of the directive. the commission is not taking any action for fear of the urgent need to revise the directive. you have clearly acknowledged in your report and here today that the harmonization of patent law in biotechnology is no longer possible because in some member states the multifunctionality of genes is clearly restricted. the commission also does not dare to clarify the question of the patentability of embryonic stem cells. if the human embryo - and therefore also parts of the human being - is excluded from patentability, then you have not given the council's interpretation. as president of the commission, you have been asked to do so. i was also disappointed that you did not say a word about the large-scale patents granted on seeds, plants and animals, or about the violation of the directive, for example, in the absence of any examination of animal suffering. this is a clear failure on the part of the commission. they are called upon to no longer merely monitor but to finally act!
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr newton dunn, and of course the rapporteurs of the other committees who have dealt with the subject of the framework decision on organised crime. i am particularly pleased that the commission's proposal has been very well received by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the rapporteur, and i think i can say with confidence that the proposed amendments are going in the right direction. i share the overall spirit of these amendments, or at least most of them. in particular, i believe it is right to identify and provide for a wider range of criminal sanctions, such as confiscation of property, the principle of publication of judicial decisions and measures of injunction also relating to the exercise of a professional activity, and i think it is important to emphasize the sanction of ineligibility for public office for those who have been convicted as members of a criminal organization. the question of the prohibition measures is currently being examined by the commission and i will propose some ideas in an ad hoc communication on the subject at the end of this year or early next year. i am also convinced that in order to combat organised crime, it is necessary to strike at those responsible where they are most vulnerable, namely in their assets: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat organised crime. i am in favour of the idea of setting up a central unit in each member state to coordinate the fight against organised crime and to manage the activities for the positive use of the assets to be confiscated from the perpetrators of such serious crimes, that is, from the members of criminal organisations. there is another interesting theme in the report, namely the protection of whistleblowers. the protection of witnesses and collaborators is a very important issue, as the persons concerned must be protected from the risk of reprisals by the criminal organisation. i can tell you that the commission intends to submit an organic proposal on this subject too, taking into account the excellent work being done by europol in this area but also the work being done by the council of europe on the protection of witnesses. the last theme which is particularly close to the rapporteur's heart is that of data literacy. we are often faced with criminal phenomena for which we do not have adequate information and statistics. as you are probably aware, the commission has recently put forward a proposal for a european statistical system on criminal activities and crime. this is a necessary element of our strategy to prevent and combat major crime, because until we have reliable, reliable and, above all, comparable statistical data, we will not have a very effective prevention tool, which will enable us to tackle the crime phenomenon at its root. the commission is therefore also working on the statistical aspect of crime. i would like to conclude by saying that europe certainly needs a more decisive and more coherent policy to prevent and combat organised crime, which is unfortunately developing considerably in a great many areas, from the terrible trafficking of human beings to drug and arms trafficking.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the confidence of european citizens in the european institutions is sadly declining. the subject we are discussing tonight, the fight against organised crime, is one on which the citizens say that this is precisely a european task. so it is good that we ask ourselves this question. parliament, the committee have done a good job here. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. the legislative proposal is also supported by the epp. we had proposed an addition to the detail question of who is competent when different judicial authorities in europe are disputing a case. if no solution is found within two months, we think it would be sensible to let eurojust decide and to put pressure on the member states to decide who is really responsible. i would like to focus on the future and how we can take a step forward. i see an important approach in strengthening joint investigative teams. we must make it a standard practice in european investigations into organised crime for officials from different countries to work together to investigate and combat crime. but what's really important is the trust between the police officers, between the investigators. we must therefore invest in learning about the different systems and building trust. this is also true of the exchange of data, the sis ii. here, we must invest in trust in the systems. the third point i would like to raise is the question of the appropriateness of developing a common code of criminal procedure. that is not the first objective in our view. the first objective is to strengthen the confidence of the officials involved in the process. the citizens expect a fight against organized crime. there should be no retreat in europe, but a determined struggle.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have the floor, but we are talking about the green paper on economic migration. the debate in plenary today and the vote tomorrow will open a new chapter. we are creating the framework conditions for economic migration in europe. the eu is one of the safest and most economically strongest regions in the world. we are therefore facing and will continue to face a high migratory pressure. steering this flow is one of the tasks of the future in europe. we should not only react to reality but also act as designers for the future. in an eu with largely open internal borders, immigration can and should only be regulated with consideration for and responsibility towards the other member states. this means that we need a coordinated european migration regime within the eu. however, it should also be made clear that the member states have the authority to decide on access to the labour market. the commission has compiled a green paper on the basic issues of regulating economic migration in order to prepare its future regulatory proposals on the basis of the broadest and most robust possible public opinion. the european parliament shall consider this list of questions in the form of a resolution as an own-initiative report. in order to reflect the current situation at the beginning of a regulatory framework, i have summarized in my report basic guidelines on economic migration. the european parliament should set the framework within which we should move in the coming years. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the aim of a european immigration policy must be to control legal, i.e. voluntary, migration while at the same time preventing illegal, i.e. unwanted migration. only if we curb the abuse of existing rules will there be room for legal, controlled migration. we need a european migration policy in the form of a comprehensive and coordinated framework. within this framework, migration regimes must be developed by reason of admission. of course, human rights and human dignity must be upheld. however, economic migration focuses on the economic needs of the host countries, as opposed to asylum. this makes it clear why mass legalisation cannot be an immigration policy measure, because there can be no selection of migrants, no analysis of the labour market and no real labour demand. mass legalization is the attempt to somehow bring an unsustainable state to a better form of administration. it is a kind of capitulation of politics to reality. but the idea of solving europe's demographic problem through migration is also too shortsighted. studies show that the birth rate among integrated immigrants has already fallen to eu levels in the second generation. and we would need so many immigrants in the near future that integration would be impossible. i think that the call for the introduction of a green card system on the american model should also be rejected. apart from the fact that there are far better immigration regulations, we would be interfering massively with the competence of the member states. the same applies to the demand for a europe-wide system of voting rights for third country nationals. this is a prerogative of the member states. it is not within the competence of the european institutions. in recent weeks, the issue of immigration has again come to the public's attention. the images and reports from lampedusa, ceuta and melilla, malta and cyprus have stirred many people. behind these images are individual fates that affect us. the first is the horror of what is happening on europe's southern borders, the second is how to change the present situation and prevent such events in the future. but let's not kid ourselves. we must talk about all the external borders of the eu. the only reason why the problems of border security at the other external borders of the eu are not in the public eye is because the images are not as compressed and therefore not as impressive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the solution cannot be to simply fight the symptoms. we must also address the causes. the european union has a duty to help the people of morocco, and to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco, to help the people of morocco. in reality, however, such action would be far too short-sighted and ultimately inhumane. it is not enough to let people into the eu, because what is to be done? where and how should these people live and work? what prospects are we offering these people? and much worse, such an action would have a knock-on effect. unfortunately, ceuta and melilla are living proof of the enormous drag that mass legalization has. what was originally intended as a measure to end illegal residence and black labor becomes an incentive for illegal immigration. in summary, what we need are clear immigration rules for all areas: flight, asylum and economic migration. we must offer the people we take in a new perspective on life. this is the one side. in this context, we need concepts for cooperation and support with transit and origin countries. that's another aspect. but then we need a third aspect: the consistent and stringent fight against illegal immigration. these include readmission agreements, border security, the return of illegal immigrants, and the fight against trafficking and smuggling of human beings. if we can solve this problem as a whole, we will succeed in this new chapter in european history. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr klamt in particular for the work he has done, for the commitment of the whole libe committee and for the contribution he has made to the work of the european commission, which in january this year proposed a green paper aimed at stimulating a transparent european public debate involving all the public and private actors. we have so far received 140 different contributions from trade unions, non-governmental organisations, member states, business organisations and the european parliament itself, which will certainly be one of the key elements in the preparation of an action plan which i confirm to you that i intend to submit to the commission by the end of this year. the guidelines for european action are first and foremost the need for a political strategy. we cannot even imagine confronting a phenomenon such as immigration, legal or illegal, with emergency instruments or police action, closing the doors on the one hand as if europe were a fortress, or on the other hand, opening the doors indiscriminately, without thinking about the consequences. political strategies and joint work by the 25 member states of the european union are therefore needed: i often hear about small groups of countries that want to act on their own or other groups that think they have the solution in their pocket. i sincerely believe that the solution can only be a concerted action by the whole of the european union. i repeat once again in connection with this subject: parliament, the council and the commission must work together. we need emergency strategies, because people are dying tragically in the mediterranean sea, and not only that, but we also need medium-term strategies, of a broader scope, because immigration cannot be tolerated but must be willed and governed in accordance with a political process of the european union. the results of the green paper will be translated into an action plan, from which guidelines for the european union will emerge. we consider legal immigration - that is, immigration that respects the rules of the member states and the european union - to be a resource and not a danger, and we want to see it as such. we are aware of the demographic trends which will require extra-community labour, but we also know that the european union of 25 cannot forget that there are human resources, workers available from the new member states of the union, european citizens like ourselves. so when the rules for this category of workers are discussed in may 2006, i will be among those who will encourage the old member states, the '15', to remove the barriers which still stand in the way of workers from the countries which joined the european union in 2004. this too must be considered in a broader strategy. this is of course without prejudice to national competence. we also decided in the constitutional treaty - you will remember this - that the question of the determination of quotas would be dealt with at national level. we note that there is still no willingness in the council to decide at community level on entry quotas, whereas there is a strong willingness to formulate common strategies. first, the government of legal economic immigration and the fight against the underground economy, or the black workers, who are exploited twice: on the one hand, they are paid less and on the other, they do not enjoy the rights of workers. this is a commitment which should be given serious thought by those who are concerned only with the question of admission, solidarity and welcome. let us instead ensure that those we allow into our countries have full rights as workers and are not forced to work without health care and social services, because that is not a good service we offer to our friends who enter the european union legally. we must therefore consider a balanced approach: solidarity and integration for those who arrive in compliance with the law, a credible policy against human traffickers and those who facilitate illegal immigration, and a credible and joint policy for the expulsion of those who do not comply with our laws. we must demand respect for the laws of our countries but in doing so we must also respect the dignity of every human being: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation is not so bad as it is today. these are the broad lines of the european commission's action, but, of course, in this area more than in others, parliament's voice will be a democratic voice and essential in order to reach joint decisions. (applause) i would like to thank
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. the commission is not i would like to thank the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for the work they have done. i believe that the report which we are also voting on tomorrow really provides an excellent basis for the european union and its member states to regulate economic migration in common. i note that the positions of the committee on development, which we have summarized in an opinion, are largely reflected in the report presented. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we feel it is particularly important that migrants are treated with dignity and in accordance with their achievements throughout their stay in the european union. this concerns some of the points we have also directly addressed. i refer here, for example, to the need for returnees to have access to funds paid into european social systems. i also refer, for example, to the facilitation of re-migration to the eu for migrants who have returned to developing countries, also in recognition of their integration experience. i would like to emphasize that it is important for us that the victims of human trafficking from developing countries are not criminalised but that they receive all the help and support they can. it was particularly important to us that women affected by this could, for example, obtain a residence permit in the member states. i regret that we have not been able to include in this paper a statement that we reject migrant reception centres in libya or other non-european countries. the brain drain of medical personnel, especially from developing countries in africa, has also been lacking.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 july 2004 the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation laying down the general rules for the granting of community financial assistance in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks for the period 2007-13. mr mauro, your rapporteur, has worked conscientiously on this text, and i thank him for that. as early as 2001, the commission in its white paper on the common transport policy had sounded the alarm about the delays in the implementation of the trans-european networks. at the current investment rate, it would take over 20 years to complete the entire trans-european transport network as revised in 2004. let's be clear about this. there is no competitive economy without efficient transport and energy networks. the establishment and proper functioning of these networks are two of the essential conditions for the success of the internal market, to ensure sustainable mobility and security of energy supply in an enlarged union. five years after the lisbon objectives, the network is still facing strong but unbalanced growth in traffic, while the need for sustainable development is growing and the need to integrate the networks of the new member states, and transport and energy, is becoming an unavoidable imperative. we should not underestimate the role that europe has to play in the development of these networks. the added value of our intervention is reflected in the stability of funding over time. many national budgets, subject to the vagaries of economic conditions, cannot afford it. above all, we can create leverage by encouraging member states to invest in projects with high european added value, including cross-border projects, and by encouraging them to coordinate better with each other. for the new programming period, we propose that you allocate eur 20.69 billion to the transeuropean transport and energy networks, including eur 20.35 billion for transport and eur 340 million for energy. i would like to thank parliament for its support, in the context of the financial perspective, for the 20 billion euro we have proposed. this is a vital sum, it is a minimum, given the challenges and the needs. the financial needs of the 30 priority projects identified by parliament and the council in 2004 alone amount to eur 225 billion, the bulk of which will be borne between 2007 and 2013, i.e. some eur 140 billion. the funding applications received by the commission since 2001 show that existing mature projects could absorb four times the budget currently available. the increase in the proposed budget for energy is intended first of all to meet the needs of the ten new member states. on the basis of our estimates, the 340 million we are asking for is only 1.7% of the cost of the priority projects. these projects are directly related to the strengthening of our security of supply, at a time when we are increasingly dependent on external suppliers, especially for natural gas. all this is a reason for maintaining the commission's original proposal. i am counting on parliament not to reduce the ten-energy budget by eur 340 million, as envisaged in the report proposal, to an amount below that which was available for the period 2000-06. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the simple budgetary aspects, the proposal we are considering this evening also sets four complementary objectives. the first objective is simplification, to facilitate more efficient decision-making. the second objective is to make aid conditional on compliance with certain elements of the common transport and energy policy. the commission proposes that attention be paid to the most environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as rail transport, in particular freight, from the point of view of safety and security. and funding will be conditional on ensuring the continuity of the interoperability of the networks. goal three. in order to increase the leverage effect of community assistance in the transport sector, the entire budget will be concentrated on only two groups of projects, which represent the backbone of the transeuropean network. on the one hand, priority projects: among these, particular attention will be paid to projects which contribute to the integration of the internal market in an enlarged community, in particular cross-border sections, and which make a significant contribution to reducing imbalances between modes of transport. on the other hand, other projects of common interest: for example, projects which contribute to improving the quality of services offered on the network and which promote user safety and security and interoperability. finally, in the energy sector, financing will be concentrated on the priority projects identified in the decision on guidelines. i would also like to stress that the commission is proposing higher maximum rates of support in the transport sector. the new regulation provides for the maximum co-financing rate to be increased to 30% for certain sections of priority transport projects. and, as a very exceptional measure, for cross-border sections, this maximum rate may be set at 50%. in the energy sector, no change. the study support may be up to 50% of the eligible costs, while the rate applicable to construction will normally be limited to 10% of the eligible costs. in exceptional cases, particularly for priority projects, it may be up to 20%. in return for this increased community assistance, the member states will of course have to provide solid guarantees on the basis of a financial plan and a firm commitment as to the dates of implementation of the project. finally, i should like to point out that the commission is proposing the introduction of a new form of assistance, the creation of a guarantee instrument covering the specific risks of ten projects in the phase immediately following construction, in the first years of operation. the objective of this new instrument is to provide a leverage effect for the financing of transeuropean transport network projects in the private sector. the proposal on which mr mauro has worked is an ambitious proposal to improve the transeuropean network. this is a key element for the success of the lisbon strategy. we must be given the means to do so. mr mauro has understood that, and i would like to thank him very much for that. i will simply add a comment. i have learned, mr president, that in the context of the budgetary procedure for 2006, your committee on budgets did not take up the amendment by the committee on transport and tourism to increase the budget line for the transeuropean transport network by eur 120 million by using the margin under heading 3. such an allocation for 2006 would have ensured a smoother transition to the new financial perspective. i would therefore ask the commission to make a statement on the situation in the community. i believe that if we want the european single market to bear fruit, we really need these transeuropean networks, these great north-south and east-west corridors, which will not only allow freight to pass through but also offer our people all the mobility and exchange opportunities they crave. that is why, mr president, i consider this proposal for a regulation to be very important and why i shall listen with interest to the various comments of members who wish to make their views known.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the transeuropean transport and energy networks make europe more tangible to citizens. we all need infrastructure, and that is why we can all benefit from the european added value here. mr mauro's report is strikingly new in a number of areas. the european parliament is officially included in the comitology procedure for the first time and is involved in drawing up the list of priorities together with the council. we welcome that and we want that. we are interested in project selection and project management. that is why the comitology procedure is so important. moreover, such participation is part of the normal parliamentary work of national parliaments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is why we think it is important that these things are also implemented. democracy is not a matter of choice, it is a matter of principle. i appeal to you, commissioner barrot, to build a bridge here and make these things possible! we look at the energy field with a tearful eye. we know that at present only 1.7% of the priority list is co-financed and that this proportion will continue to decline. we must ask ourselves questions of principle here in the long term. our rapporteur gives the commission a number of hard nuts to crack. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. the recovery of funds in the transport sector, when irregularities have occurred or the project has not been completed after ten years, is an innovative issue which we expect the commission to make possible because it is important to us.
the commission has already done so. the purpose of the revision of the two directives is to bring them into line with the legislation in force. in particular, scientific developments and technical progress must be taken into account. new substances are being approved and, very importantly, the positive list of authorised additives needs to be revised. a fundamental revision of food additives - we should have known this - would be desirable, but unfortunately it is not possible at the moment. that is why corrections must be made. of course, it is a healthy thing to try to market foods that are as pure as possible, without additives. however, modern society places high demands on food: it must be good, it must look fresh, it must taste good, and it must retain these qualities for as long as possible. we must increasingly recognise that consumers are accepting the offer of semi-finished and finished products. the modern housewife cannot do without such convenience products for many reasons. the main reasons are lack of time for housekeeping and ignorance of cooking and nutrition. who can make a stew, a mashed potato, or a mashed potato today? the food industry fills these gaps. it must use the auxiliary materials to meet the demands of consumers. we 've accomplished a great deal in this case . long shelf life and instant products allow for a fast, time-saving kitchen with a variety of options. but consumers also want safety and health. that is why we are here today on behalf of consumers to demand safety through uniform standards and lists throughout the eu. i support mrs murko's report and thank her for the careful treatment of the subject. but at this late hour i would like to make one more request to the consumer, namely, that despite all the modern advances, he should once again visit a farm to buy and taste food in its original form. if we give our children the chance to learn how to cook and how to run a household, then they can decide for themselves!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on regional development, in its opinion on the budget, followed the commission's proposals and reinstated the preliminary draft budget. this is particularly true of payments. the rapporteur has taken account of the member states' needs by increasing payments by a further 40%. i am therefore making two requests to the member states: first, to spend this money in a professional and appropriate manner and, secondly, to take it into account in the debate on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 and to make a corresponding budget available for cohesion policy in the future. i would ask the house to support two other proposals by the committee of the regions, namely to encourage a project to network smes across europe and a study on the needs of the new member states, particularly in terms of the reconstruction of slum areas. we have spoken about this problem many times in this house without knowing exactly what challenges these member states are facing.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's draft budget is a conservative one, at 1.02%. the reductions proposed by the council are, in our view, unacceptable. we must find the courage to finance very specific tasks if we are to meet the challenges of the future. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pittella, very much. we have moved towards each other on essential points. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we believe that we cannot continue to subsidize agricultural exports as we have done. in senegal, for example, if vegetables from europe are cheaper than those produced there, this is an unsustainable situation. we as the european union are creating causes of flight, and this is a policy which we cannot continue to pursue. we must also reduce tobacco subsidies. we can free up funds there to invest in other areas, particularly research policy, but also education, culture and youth. i support mr pittella's approach that we need to spend more money here so that students have the opportunity to move more in europe. it is precisely through a clear cultural offer that we reach the local people. we should at least return to the figures for 2004. we also need to spend more on renewable energy if we really want a strategy to move away from oil in order to adequately address climate challenges. we must do this for ecological reasons, but also for economic reasons. such a strategy must be part of the lisbon strategy, because it is precisely with environmentally friendly technologies that we have an opportunity on the world market. we must have a special interest in this as europeans and the ambition to make progress here. the council has repeatedly declared in its sunday speeches that we must do more: in iraq, in afghanistan, for the victims of the tsunami. in day-to-day politics, he cuts spending. this is irresponsible because it undermines the credibility of the european union. the objectives announced in 2000, for example to fight poverty more effectively, cannot be achieved with the budgetary approach we have now. i would like to say to the council, as some colleagues before me have done, very clearly: we must make full use of the flexibility of these 493 million pounds to make a good impression on the world as a european union next year and to be able to make good on the promises we have made in various parts of the world. the council has already made a number of recommendations to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. money is a means of expressing what we value. but if you look at the eu budget, you get an amazing picture: agriculture is worth about seven times as much to us as research and education. this is doubly wrong, because the eu should also support what it wants politically in the budget, and europe should invest in the future instead of subsidising outdated structures. it makes a difference whether you invest in nanotechnology, for example, or guarantee the income of a farmer. i know that csu is living in a different age. that is why it is good that the european parliament has increased spending on the lisbon agenda and reduced tobacco subsidies. we must continue to work in this direction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council and the commission set up shadow budgets for the financing of eu military operations, which are not officially controllable. there is a mechanism called the athena mechanism. in this procedure, eu member states pay for eu military operations into an extra pot, which is explicitly not a part of the eu budget. the european parliament is thus outside the scope of the directive and control is almost impossible. i have asked the foreign affairs committee and the subcommittee on security and defence how much money is in this pot, and i have not received a reply. i therefore put the same question again directly to the council and the commission. this procedure is currently used for eufor althea in bosnia. in future, it will be used in particular for so-called crisis response operations, i.e. eu war operations. the problematic eu military and police missions in the congo and sudan are obviously financed from the development aid budget. this is what the commission representatives said at afet. the meeting also noted that the current treaty of nice prohibits an independent eu military budget. that's good! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the 2006 budget is exciting when we talk about it at european level, because it is the last budget of the current financial perspective. we are thus, mr president of the council, on the way to laying the foundations for what the 2007 budget looks like in its basic data, in the absence of a financial perspective. i would like to recall this at this point so that it is not completely lost sight of. we will also have to start a process of rethinking here in the european parliament. i believe that we can no longer simply demand more everywhere, but must focus on what really needs to be done at european level and how much money can be made available for this. mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr von der vring, for his excellent report, and to thank the committee on budgets for the work they have done. the federal budget spends much more on research than on agriculture. the bottom line is that it all adds up. we are responsible and this must be reflected in the budget. the member states are more responsible for research and that is why it is shown there. these bills don't add up. but i also want to make it very clear that if we ask the member states to respect the stability criteria, that is to say to save, we cannot go around the country with the spending pants on. not every problem in europe needs to be solved by a european budget line. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if that is the lesson of the 2006 budget, we have achieved a great deal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commission for a statement. unfortunately, the commission is not here. i would ask you, however, to inform the commission of this and to have it do so within the week. because commissioner mccreevy made a statement in the debate last night on the patentability of human cloning that is not covered by the legislation. the commission's interpretation of this question is simply wrong and contradicts the council of ministers' memorandum which the council of ministers gave when it adopted the directive. article 35 of the directive states very clearly that it is not only reproductive cloning that is excluded from patentability. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, cannot give an interpretation in a speech by the commissioner which is not covered by the directive, which is incorrect and which is contrary to the council's note to the minutes. i would therefore ask you very strongly to ask your services to ask the commission to put this right, otherwise there will be consequences. so i really ask you - i know there are many colleagues in this room who feel the same way - that this be clarified, that it be sent to the mccreevy cabinet and that commissioner mccreevy put it right this week.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, colleagues, it is a very great pleasure to be with you this afternoon, here in the european parliament in strasbourg. let me add my words of welcome to our colleagues from ukraine. if we should ever feel lacking in confidence about europe and its values, then the interest of people such as our ukrainian friends should tell us that the values of europe are strong and are much envied by so much of the rest of the world. (applause) my purpose in coming here today is to report back on what we intend over these coming weeks to be the basis of the uk presidency. i have with me douglas alexander, who is our europe minister, and after i have left he will stay to answer more questions – especially the difficult questions! (laughter)however, i shall be here i am pleased to say for at least an hour and a half to hear both your comments and to answer some of those questions myself. i would also like to explain at the very outset how we want to take forward the presidency over these coming weeks. on 23 june in brussels, we set out an essential vision of how we should combat the challenge of globalisation. i think it is agreed generally in europe that we need to get europe moving and we need to get it moving in the right direction. the question is how we do that. we now have an opportunity, both in the informal summit, which is tomorrow, and then in the formal summit in december, to set out that direction and put in place the specific policies to match it. so, over these two summits, our idea is first to agree on the right direction for europe economically, then, secondly, to set out some new priority areas for european action and then, thirdly, on the basis and in the context of that, to get a budget deal in december at the formal council. i shall first of all come to the informal summit. this is what i want to come out of this informal summit. the first thing is that i want to get that informal summit to agree effectively on the commission paper presented by president barroso and the european commission. that commission paper is an analysis of the challenge of globalisation and how we meet it, both as member states and as the european union. i have to say that it is a stark analysis, but it is the right analysis. it shows just how great a competitive challenge we have from the emerging economies such as china and india, never mind the united states and others. it shows how important it is we deal with the almost 20 million unemployed people in the european union. it shows how we must make our labour markets less restrictive, how we have to make sure, in the field of research and development, innovation and other areas, that we catch up with the best practice in the world. it shows how in areas like energy – where after all we are going to be importing within the next few years something like 90% of our oil and gas needs – europe has to up its game considerably, and it shows also the enormous demographic challenge that we will face, with fewer people of working age, more people in retirement, and more people therefore needing to work. as a result, issues such as work/life balance and how we allow people both to raise their families and to work in the workplace are all the more crucial. the first thing we want to do at the informal summit is to get that paper agreed and make that the basis for the discussion we then have about europe, its social model and its economic future. however, we also want to add some specific areas of future priorities for european work. i should like to mention some of those. in respect of these areas of future work, we are also, as the presidency, publishing some papers today from academics within the european union on certain aspects of the challenge we face in each of those areas. those will be published and available to members of parliament and people attending the summit tomorrow. but what are the new priority areas we should be thinking of? first of all, there is research and development, and innovation. we need to make sure that more of the european budget is spent on those priority areas, because those are the future areas for the european economy. (applause)we also need to coordinate better the way in which we work in these areas. we propose specifically a european research council that is the equivalent of the american national science foundation, that will support the funding of research and development projects and give us the chance in europe to be forming the world-beating companies in the technologies of the future. so, one major area for future priority work is research and development. the second area is energy and energy policy. i believe it is time to develop within europe a common european energy policy. (applause)for far too long we have been in the situation where, in a haphazard and random way, energy needs and energy priorities are simply determined by each country according to its needs, but without any sense of the collective power that we could have in europe, if we were prepared to pool our energy and our resources. that policy should focus not on new regulatory barriers, but rather on obtaining a genuinely open energy market. it should deal with, for example, a properly integrated european union grid. already this is done on a bilateral basis between countries. think of how much greater economic power and competitiveness we could have, if we were prepared to make sure that it was integrated on a europe-wide basis. secondly, we, like other major countries in the world, should be prepared to enter into dialogue at european level with key suppliers of energy, to use our collective weight to make our voice heard. thirdly, we need to be developing clean technologies, energy efficiency and coming to some common views at least about the possibilities and perspectives on issues related to areas such as nuclear power. (mixed reactions) i thought certain things might get a mixed reception. (laughter)these are areas we need to work on in future. the third area concerns universities. let us be clear about the situation in europe today. our university sector is not competing in the way it needs to with america. china and india are developing their university sector in an extraordinary way. looking not just at the spending of our tertiary education sector, but also where we are getting the value-added in the connection between business and university, we do not have anything like the same possibilities in europe that they have in other parts of the world. our proposal is that we task the commission specifically to report back to the european council next year on the challenge facing european universities, how we compete with the united states, how we get more public-private partnership into sustaining them and more graduate schools linking business and the academic world across the european union. there is a fourth area i would like to suggest for priority work, and that is how we control migration, but also use it to boost the effectiveness and competitiveness of the european economy. we need both to make sure that we have the proper controls on illegal immigration at the same time as recognising that controlled migration can actually bring a benefit to our european economies. (applause) one of the papers that we published today is a paper from a french academic, patrick weil, who has also been an adviser to politicians in france, which points out how, ironically, those countries that have opened their labour market to those from the accession countries – the accession ten – have actually benefited economically from that opening up. we need to take those lessons further. (applause) the fifth area concerns the need to make far greater progress on what i might call the demographic or work/life balance issues. now here it is not appropriate for the european union to be engaged in substantial bouts of extra regulation and so on, but here is where the open method of coordination could work properly, in things like work/life balance, childcare and provision for people to be able to raise their family and work at the same time, in how we get the best practice in pension and social security systems across europe. this would be sensible if we are looking at how we can modernise the european economy. the final area of priority work concerns what was called by the european commission the globalisation fund. i just want to make one thing very clear about this idea. the important thing about the globalisation fund is that it should not be a fund that protects companies that need to restructure, or failing companies, or one that bails out companies that cannot succeed. what it should do, however, is protect and help people in circumstances where restructuring has made them redundant or left them facing difficulties within the labour market. to take an example from the uk recently, where thousands of people were made redundant at the rover works: we did not stop the restructuring, because, i’m afraid, it was economically necessary, even though tragic for the individuals involved. however, we provided real help with retraining, re-skilling and finding new jobs for the workforce in order to protect not the job but the individual. such a fund, if it is done in the proper way, will help rather than hinder us in meeting the challenge of globalisation. (applause)what we want to propose at the informal council tomorrow is that we should agree the basic direction in the commission paper and then, in the six areas of work i have just outlined, that we should set out how we can make progress in each of those areas in order to enhance the competitiveness of the european union and also its social solidarity in helping people adjust to the challenge of globalisation. in addition, tomorrow, arising out of the special council that we had on 13 july, we want to propose measures for a counter-terrorism strategy in order to get agreement to those measures at the december council. those should focus on things like the radicalisation of people inside the european union, the protection of our infrastructure and, in particular, how we exchange information and protection more effectively, how we retain that, how we get cooperation between the different security and police services inside the european union in order to protect our people better and, as the home secretary, charles clarke, said to you when he was here in the european parliament, we are happy to deal with this under the first pillar, so that it can be part of the codecision-making process. (applause)if we can agree that tomorrow, then i believe that we have the beginnings, at least, of the right context in which we can get a financing deal. in addition to these other issues, there are outstanding dossiers, and let me just say a word about those now. on the working time directive, i hope we can reach agreement under the united kingdom presidency – we will certainly try to do that. in respect of the services directive, we know the position taken by the european parliament; i still, however, hope that it is possible to get political agreement on the right way forward, because – and i say this in all sincerity – the services directive is a necessary part of completing the single market and it is important for europe. (heckling)i decided to come to the european parliament today and was unable to attend the british parliament – this is a sort of reminder, so thank you for that! i would like specifically to say – and this may get me into further trouble – to the president of the commission, whom i congratulate on the work that he has done over the past few months, that commissioner verheugen’s proposals on deregulation are an important indicator that europe is prepared to regulate where it is in the interests of its citizens, but prepared also to deregulate where it is necessary for our competitiveness. (heckling)this will be giving our ukrainian colleagues an excellent example of what a modern democracy is all about! when we come to the december council, it is our intention to do our level best to reach a financing deal. i want to make it quite clear and i know from conversations i have had with members from the accession countries that for all of us the european budget is important. as we know in britain, there are major issues that arise in connection with it. however, we should remember – that is, we, the 15 members of the european union as was, some time ago – that for the ten accession countries, this is of fundamental importance to them. i acknowledge our responsibility, as the presidency, to do our level best to reach agreement. i hope we can do that, whatever the particular level of the budget may be. i would also like to make one other point. if we are to get a budget agreement – and i know that people want it in the european parliament and they want it in the european council, too – we will be in a better position to do so if we have agreed an economic direction and new priorities for work, and if those can then influence the outcome of that budget debate. that budget debate has to make a start in this financing deal, in reordering the priorities, and it has to be able – through the review process – to give us a forward perspective of a more rational way to spend the european budget in today’s world. if we want our economy to meet the future challenges, at some point we have got to make sure that the budget is aligned with the economic priorities of our citizens and of our business and of our workforce. (applause) finally, on external relations, in respect of climate change you will know that we had successful agreements with china and india, as well as russia, on the issue of how to take forward a proper dialogue on climate change. in particular, i would commend to you the coal demonstration plant with near-zero emissions that we have agreed with china for europe to build. that could be an important signal for the future. i am perfectly happy, in response to questions, to say more about climate change in a moment. in addition, we hope we can get agreement at the december council on an africa strategy. europe can be proud of what we have done in respect of development, but the truth is we need to do more. we also, incidentally, for these reasons hope to secure a successful outcome to the wto negotiations in hong kong. on the question of defence, it is just worth pointing out that, when we began the process of european defence, people were very sceptical. today we have nine different european missions around the world undertaken by european forces and that shows that european defence can indeed work. of course, we have had the accession negotiations with turkey and croatia opening. our aim therefore is to get the following things done: agreement on a new economic direction; new priorities for european work in areas like research and development, energy, universities, migration, demography and so on; and a future financing deal that is fair, begins to address those priorities and gives the future prospect of being able substantially to reorder the european budget. we also want a set of conclusions in the area of justice and home affairs that allows us to combat terrorism and illegal immigration, whilst taking the benefits of proper managed migration. we want to take forward our defence, particularly the common defence policy, in areas like strategic airlift and air-to-air refuelling. we want to get clear conclusions in december on a development strategy for europe in respect of africa and to make sure that we keep to a strong process of change in order to combat greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental challenge we face. we came to the point a few months ago where, as a result of the ‘no’ votes in the referendums, there was a sense that europe was in paralysis. if we want to get europe moving again and in the correct direction, then we have to agree both what that direction is and the specific measures to get us there. if we are able, in the course of these next few weeks, to offer at least some explanation and answers to our citizens on how we meet the challenge of globalisation, how we provide greater security in an era of global terrorism and mass migration, and how we can have a foreign policy that uses europe’s collective weight for the benefit of the citizens of europe, then we will at least have made a start on putting europe back together again, on the right track and moving forward. no one presidency can achieve all of that, but if we can achieve what we set out here, i think it will be significant. i came here today in order to report back both on what we had done and what we intend to do over the next few weeks. i can tell you we intend to report back again and make sure you are kept constantly in touch with the deliberations within the council. if i may end on this point, it is important that we make sure that, in addressing these challenges, the european commission, the european parliament and the european council work together and work together closely. that is our desire. as is obvious from the debates you have and the debates we have with you, we are not always in agreement. but to return to the point i made at the very beginning, it is also obvious from those up in the gallery watching our proceedings that europe has an immense amount to be proud of and it is time we showed our citizens that the next fifty years can be as good as the last.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the informal summit in hampton court will be an opportunity for a real discussion of the economic and social challenges facing europe. i hope that this will not only be a debate but also - as the president-in-office of the council, mr blair, has just said - an opportunity to take decisions on the way forward. last week in brussels i presented to you the decisions taken that day by the commission for the hampton court summit. i will not go back on that presentation. i would just like to remind you that in addition to a document on the economic and social challenges of globalisation, the commission has also approved an initiative to relaunch the negotiations on the financial perspective and has contributed to a political agreement which we believe is necessary and urgent. i would like to thank you for your support of the document prepared by the commission and i would like to reiterate in this house, before you and before prime minister blair, that we want to help find a solution to the budget problem, because if we really want to show that europe is moving forward, we need a decision on the financial perspective. (applause) i would like to thank we know that europe has a historically high level of prosperity, social cohesion, environmental protection and quality of life compared with other regions of the world. but it's also true that there's a social justice deficit. there are now 19 million unemployed in the member states of the union. the gap between rich and poor is too big. in many of our large cities we have serious integration problems which require urgent action. the truth is that this situation is likely to deteriorate in the face of the simultaneous challenges of population ageing and globalisation. globalisation certainly creates great opportunities, but it also poses threats to certain sectors of our europe. one thing is certain: the status quo is not an option. reforms and modernisation of europe are urgently needed. if we want to preserve our european values, we must modernise our policies. that is why we are proposing ambitious reforms, stressing the need to avoid two dangers. on the one hand, there is the danger posed by those who think that europe is only or mainly a market. they are wrong, because the enlarged europe, the europe of 25 and more in the future, must be based on a structure of social cohesion and political coherence, both internally and externally, if we are to support this project. we must never consider that our great european project is finally achieved, but we must fight every day to strengthen it. on the other hand, there is the danger posed by those who think that it is possible to make europe a power by having 25 minimum energy markets and 25 minimum services markets at the same time. if we want to make europe a real power, we must fully realize the internal market. it's about our competitiveness in the globalized world. (applause) i believe that the european union has a central role to play in pushing forward these ambitious reforms and the modernisation of our social systems. success depends on getting the right combination of action at european and national levels. we need to make full use of all the instruments at our disposal: legislation, as prime minister blair said, and we are pushing for better regulation. there are cases where we need more legislation and others where we need less bureaucracy and less legislation. we cannot deliver the future european union budget without the instruments, along with multilateral surveillance, shared experience, and all the mechanisms that we have at our disposal. the commission's executive powers, the right of initiative of the commission, the effective use of competition rules: we have the instruments to complement and to add value to - not to replace - what we do at national level. at international level, too, europe is the right level for action. let us be frank: even the biggest member states in our community do not have the leverage to manage globalisation or to speak exactly on the same footing with other global powers. we are a successful example of globalisation on a regional scale. our deep integration, our common policies and our shared values give us an added strength that no individual member state can claim. that is why, in order to tackle poverty around the world, to project european values worldwide and to negotiate in the interests of our member states, it is better to reaffirm clearly that we need a strong european dimension. i state very clearly: we need now, more than ever, a strong european union in this globalised world. these instruments are mutually reinforcing; they depend on each other for success. in the paper that the commission prepared for the informal summit, we put forward some lines of action. let me highlight some of those aspects. first, the creation of the globalization adjustment fund to cope with the consequences of globalization on those people who, for example, are affected by restructuring. as prime minister blair said - and it is precisely the original idea of the commission as well - the purpose of this fund is not to protect firms that are not competitive or not economically viable, but to help people. at the same time as we are in favour of opening up our economies, we should show that we also care about people. people are not statistics. we have to have an active policy to meet their concerns and aspirations. i am very grateful to prime minister blair for the support he has given to this fund. (applause) i would like to thank you. we have also identified some areas where the partnership between the commission and the member states can be further explored and strengthened - areas which primarily fall within the member states' domain - but where the commission can play a major role, either as an honest broker, a catalyst or as a focal point of benchmarking, of mutual surveillance, of collective action. for example, as the prime minister said, and as we have said in our paper, we are in favour of a common approach at european level on energy. i will add just one more to the very good examples he gave: the important area of bioenergy. i believe we can do much more in that area, bringing together the fields of environment, agriculture, research and the funds we already have at our disposal. so there is a possibility of work between the european institutions and the member states. another area is research and development, and we hope to get the funding necessary for that to have some action at european level because we need that dimension. we need to ask ourselves why the best minds in europe, and also in china, in india and in many parts of the world, go to study in the united states when we know that the best universities were founded here. universities are a european creation, so why are they going elsewhere when they could be here? we also need to complement action at national level with a european action for universities, for research and for innovation. finally, the commission is ready to present to the european council a roadmap setting out the path to a modern europe capable of delivering economic prosperity and social justice. so my message to the summit will be clear: if we want to keep our european values, we must modernise our policies, and it is better if we do that together. we should call for a personal commitment from all european union leaders. we, the european institutions parliament, the council and the commission have to do it together. also the member states, regional and local authorities and the social partners we have to work for this change. i know change is never easy, but let me tell you: inaction is much worse and much more costly. if we do nothing it will be much more painful than if we change now with our values and with our determination. (applause) i think that hampton court should also provide a positive message to our citizens on the role europe can play in the world in terms of security and the projection of our values, be it in terms of development aid or the management of globalisation. it is important that we also define this new role of europe in the world. i hope that our discussions tomorrow will allow a consensus to emerge on the scale and urgency of the challenges we face and the need to move forward. i think this consensus, this common vision, is necessary. this new consensus is necessary to reconnect europe with its citizens and also to prepare the ground for further progress in our european project. this consensus and this sense of urgency are necessary to reach agreement on the budget and the financial perspective, hopefully by the end of this year. i thank prime minister blair for the renewed personal commitment he gave to these goals here today. it is difficult, but it is possible and it is necessary. the task of responsible politicians is to make possible what is necessary. that is why we are now working very hard. we have been working very closely and very intensively with the uk presidency. i want to thank prime minister blair and all his staff for the very competent work they are doing and i want to reassure you, the european parliament, and prime minister blair, that we will be working hard to ensure the success, not only of tomorrow's summit, but also of the december summit, so that we have europe on the move again. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i am quite conscious of saying mr president of the european council and not mr prime minister. the prime minister's office gives you the presidency of the european union, but you have to represent not just british interests but european interests as a whole, and that is what we will be measuring you against in the coming weeks and months. (applause from the centre) this debate is taking place at the right time in the right place. tomorrow you will be spending a day in a castle, as is proper for heads of state and government. i hope the name henry viii is not a negative symbol and does not disturb the future of europe. but everyone knows, mr president of the european council, that as prime minister and with your party you do not belong to my political family, to our political family. i would like to make a positive point, however, that you are here today in the european parliament, in the european people's representative. tomorrow, the meeting of the council of heads of state or government will take place. this is the correct order: first the european parliament in strasbourg and then hampton court palace near london. (applause from the centre) we wish you, mr president of the european council, success in restoring confidence between the 25 heads of state and government. their presence here today is indeed a contribution to building confidence, because all three european institutions are present. i also appreciate that the president of the european parliament will be here all day tomorrow. that's something new, too. it should be a matter of course for everyone in the future that the president of the european parliament attends all the meetings of the european council. if you can establish this tradition, you will be doing something good for european democracy! we hope that you will succeed in making it clear tomorrow that we want a strong europe in the one world! that is to say, we must not cut europe off from the world, but this europe must help shape the world's great problems. but one thing is certain: without the european union we will not be able to tackle any of the major problems. europe is not the solution to all the major problems, but without europeans working together in the european union, we will not solve any of the problems. globalization is not just about the economy, although everyone is talking about it. of course, globalization is also an economic process, but globalization means, at its core, that we are one world. and that means a spiritual, a moral, a cultural, a political and, of course, an economic challenge. there's something very positive about globalization if you do it right. our foundation is human rights and human dignity. in future, it must not be the case that countries - whether cuba or the people's republic of china - say: 'if we are concerned about human rights, this is an internal matter. i'm not going to. globalization means: human dignity for all people on this planet, whether they are americans, europeans, chinese or cubans. human dignity is for everyone, and that is part of globalization. (applause from the centre) everything is connected today. i have heard this morning from a colleague that cooperation with the commission, which is very positive in the wto area, could be further enhanced in terms of presence on the committees. i can't judge that, but that's what i've been told. but what is happening in the wto is not just an economic process! let me give you an example. i have visited morocco several times. if you walk in the streets of moroccan cities, you see a lot of young people, which is very positive. but if these young people in morocco do not have a chance, if we do not open our market, including for agricultural products - this is not possible overnight, but gradually - then these young people do not have a chance in their own country, then they are knocking on the doors of europe, as we see in ceuta and melilla. the question of the world trade agreement is therefore not just an economic question but a profoundly human one, and we must also meet our political and moral responsibilities in this respect. (applause from the right) now we're talking about a fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was once a member of the committee of the regions many years ago. at that time the restructuring of the steel sector was taking place. europe has helped with the restructuring. not by conservation subsidies, but by education. the same can be said of industries which are facing difficulties as a result of the process of liberalization and globalisation: using these funds to carry out retraining measures. the european regional fund already has funds for this purpose. so i'm asking you to take a closer look at this. we certainly need flexibility in the labour markets. we need to de-bureaucratize. i thank you, mr president of the commission, for putting forward a good proposal. i ask you, prime minister not in your capacity as prime minister but as president-in-office of the european council whatever you decide tomorrow, not to take any formal decisions. but, whatever you might prepare to decide, in working groups for example, you must include the european commission. we will not allow an intergovernmental process to decide the future of europe; we want the institutions of europe to be involved in the whole process of the development of europe. i regret to say that my speaking time is over. you're a good communicator. everybody knows that. if the quality of the results of your presidency matches the quality of your communication at the end of 2005, we will be very satisfied. we shall then give our final answer in december or january. good luck to you. if you succeed, we all succeed. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. mr president-in-office, you indicated in your remarks that you would also be speaking tomorrow in hampton court on the fight against terrorism. that is why i want to start by making a comment on 7 july. the attacks in london on 7 july were attacks on european civil society. they were not attacks on the british people alone - they were. they were attacks on all of us. that is why your reaction - not only as the british prime minister but also as the president of the council - was a reaction on behalf of us all. the way the labour government has responded, the appropriate combination of public safety toughness and simultaneous dialogue within the population, has been the right response. this is one of the successes of the british presidency. i want to thank you for that. (applause from the centre) but, mr president-in-office, when you discuss the european social model tomorrow, you will be discussing with the heads of state and government a social model which has been developed in europe in stages over the fifty years following the second world war. the core element of this development was: economic and technical progress has been linked to social progress for the first time in economic history. each economic and social enlargement was accompanied by more social rights and more social stability. this is the recipe for success of the european social model. but now there are more and more so-called economists, including in governments, who have been telling us for years that the basic prerequisite for more economic and social progress is the destruction of social cohesion, the reduction of wages, the extension of working hours, fewer workers' and trade union rights. we'll say no to that. this is destroying the european social model. this is the mccreevy course. you can take it off tomorrow. (applause from the centre) you are right, mr president: the european internal market and its development are a great opportunity. we want the free movement of services, of course, but we do not want the free movement of social dumping in europe. if the principle of the country of origin is to be used as a means of breaking down social standards, then this is not the service directive we want. (applause from the centre and the right) the market produces many things, but one thing it does not produce: solidarity. we must create them ourselves, and above all the states must create them. we in the european parliament must do our part. (applause from the centre) that is what your constituents expect of you. mr poettering has spoken of many things, but not much about the summit which is to take place tomorrow. i have a request to you, mr president-in-office, for this summit: please ensure that the following is put at the centre of the perspective that the commission has given us as a basis for the summit, namely that the basic prerequisite for a successful economy in europe is not the destruction of social cohesion, but that the basic prerequisite for a successful economy in europe is that profits made in companies are good because companies exist to make profits, but that those who make profits, namely the workers, benefit from the profits and that they can keep decent jobs with decent incomes from which they can feed their families. if that is the aim of the european union, then, mr president-in-office, you have the social democrats on your labour side. (applause from the centre and the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in june, tony blair announced here his vision for the future eu budget: less agricultural subsidies and more spending on research and education. i thank him for that statement. although she is realistic and speaks from the heart to the citizens, she is courageous. the reactions of the other heads of government show this. but i ask you to stick to your priorities. this is important for our future, and remember that when gerhard schröder, for example, criticizes you, he has been voted out of office, he no longer has the mandate to speak for germany. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we are responding to another announcement by tony blair, namely that the council meetings will be open to the public. we are asking you to make this announcement come true. we're waiting for it. (applause from the centre)
president-in-office of the council. i can assure you that i will reflect on and bear in mind the remarks the member has made. i reiterate the commitment and importance we attach to using the framework directive in the kind of ways that i outlined in my initial answer. if i can offer a ray of optimism to the member, it would simply be to say that he is not a lone voice in this parliament in making this case. even while i was sitting at desk no 2 and our prime minister was still addressing the chamber this afternoon, one of your colleagues in the socialist group had already passed a note to me saying that they took the strength of commitment to research and development shown by our prime minister during his speech as a very clear indication that the seventh framework programme would be fully funded to the extent that she wanted. i am not able to give such an indication today, given the interrelated issues of financing that such a commitment would involve, but, in its own way, for me, it reflects the strength of feeling, not just amongst the council – which i believe will be reflected in the council tomorrow at hampton court – but amongst a wide cross-section of members of this parliament, that research and development is one of the key priorities for the union moving ahead in the future.
president-in-office of the council. the european commission has agreed that the reforms of recent years have strengthened minority rights. however, there remain a number of outstanding concerns, which the commission will address in its regular report, due on 9 november. the commission and the council will continue to monitor these issues closely. non-muslim religious communities continue to experience difficulties with questions of legal personality, property rights, training, residents’ rights and work permits for turkish and non-turkish clergy, schools and internal management. a new law on foundations is expected to resolve some of these problems. the european commission has acknowledged that the latest draft is a significant improvement on its predecessor. the union has urged turkey to adopt such a law promptly and ensure that it is fully compliant with european standards. on his visit to ankara from 6 to 8 october 2005, commissioner rehn urged the turkish authorities to take into account the commission’s comments on the draft law. the european union has also repeated its calls for turkey to reopen the halki greek orthodox seminary. with regard to the rights of those belonging to ethnic minorities, some progress has been achieved, notably in the field of cultural rights, but further progress is needed. furthermore, the situation in the south east of turkey remains a matter for concern. the negotiation mandate agreed by the european union that will guide accession negotiations with turkey in the months and years ahead stipulates that turkey should work towards further improvement in respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as consolidate and broaden legislation and implementing measures on, inter alia, freedom of religion and minority rights. the council can assure the honourable member that the union attaches great importance to these issues. hence monitoring and evaluation of progress, as well as dialogue with the turkish side, will continue in all the relevant bodies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the christians in turkey - it is mostly christian minorities that have these problems - are threatened with disappearing. their numbers are declining, and the ecumenical patriarch fears that there may be no christians left in turkey by the end of the accession negotiations. that is why i would like to ask you a very specific question. the religious law was presented and the commission clearly criticized it. the turks have said they will improve it in parliament. do you have any concrete signals for such improvement, particularly as regards property rights and the training of priests? do you have any concrete signals and will you insist that these signals be implemented in the coming weeks? or is this something that is being put off until there are no more christians in turkey?
president-in-office of the council. i think it most appropriate to await the commission report on exactly these matters, because it is important – rather than to deal on the basis of individual examples, or sometimes even of anecdote – to have evidence on which to base assertions that are being made. it is certainly the case that the union continues to urge the turkish government to reopen the halki greek orthodox seminary, as i said, that closed back in 1971. the turkish government remains committed to this and is searching for a solution that is both compatible with turkish law and acceptable to the patriarchate. on the specific issue of confiscation of greek orthodox church property, commissioner rehn wrote to the turkish foreign minister in june on the shortcomings in the draft law on foundations and highlighted the issue of property rights specifically. the final point i would make – given the very negative construction that was placed in the question as regards the prospects for the christian community within turkey – is to place on record the fact that leaders of those christian communities themselves have been some of those who have recognised the scale of progress that has been made in recent months in anticipation of the opening of accession talks. so, while i am respectful to the point the honourable member made, i think we also need to listen to those christian voices within turkey who themselves are claiming that the very process and prospect of accession is providing for them and guaranteeing rights which, tragically, have not been available to them in past circumstances.
president-in-office of the council. under the procedure laid down for regulation (ec) no 639/2003, to which the honourable member refers, the commission is responsible for submitting to the management committee any proposal for modifying implementing measures relating to conditions governing the payment of export refunds. the council is requested to act only when a majority of delegations in the management committee has been unable to give an opinion on such a proposal. the commission has made no such proposal.
deputy writer. the commission is not this is a major problem for mountain areas, which are particularly threatened by deculturation and devastation. i would therefore like to ask - also because of the ecological importance of these cattle breeds for the alps, which are already ecologically threatened: does the council support such an approach or is it completely neutral and has no opinion on the matter?
president-in-office of the council. i can assure you that, in terms of what is an ongoing dialogue with president borrell, there is no intention whatsoever of diminishing the capacity of ministers to be answerable and to answer questions directly to members in the format that we are presently enjoying. i am not sure we are both enjoying it, but certainly you are! i can also assure you that there was nothing personal in our failure to reach question 17 in the two previous question times. i think that ministers have an important responsibility to endeavour to address themselves to the questions that have been put. on the basis of my accumulating experience of answering questions in this chamber, there are circumstances in which questions are put directly to us that are matters of national interest rather than being within the remit of the presidency, and that, inevitably, is reflected in the answers that are given.
the next item is the commission statement on afghanistan.
the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by thanking emma bonino and josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra very warmly for their excellent leadership in kabul. i would also like to thank all the colleagues who were present. let me address a single point that has been raised several times this evening. and that is the criticism of the country of afghanistan, a country that has made a giant leap in my terms and is also about to make more. we should be very, very modest in our criticism. we europeans have no reason to point the finger at this suffering country and say who should be punished for everything and what went wrong. of course, there are many things that have gone wrong and will go wrong. but if we look at european history over the last century, let us take my country! in the old federal republic, too, after the second world war, a great many people who had been close to the system were taken into the civil service and made a career there. the west, to which we belong, has also in recent years been fondling the former soviet nomenclature. you're proud to be friends with former kgb bosses and so on and so forth. i warn you, we're not going to be telling the afghans what to do from here. there are a lot of positives. i was particularly impressed by the openness and commitment of the young people. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. i would like to make one final comment: i would like this parliament to set up a delegation for relations with afghanistan, because i believe that this is the best way of helping the parliamentarians in afghanistan.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to comment on a few points which have arisen from the debate. one such point is the question of human rights abusers who have been elected to parliament, because this is something that concerns us all. unfortunately, afghanistan has not embarked with any ease on a process to come to terms with its past, and i hope it will take its time. in such circumstances, it is deeply regrettable, but probably inevitable, that this first post-conflict election will result in some questionable individuals being elected to parliament. politically, the key question is how much influence these individuals will have in parliament, and i think it is too early to judge, since the voting system, as many have mentioned, myself included, is very complicated. there are no clear party blocks. parliament will certainly be very fragmented. i would also like to highlight some positive aspects about some of the people who were elected. there were courageous people with a record of standing up for justice and human rights in afghanistan who also managed to get elected, including, as many of you mentioned, quite a significant number of women. i met some of the women candidates and, admittedly, i was really surprised and i very much appreciated their courage. when i met them, they said that they had been out working with many women, and i am sure they all said ‘we will get elected’. ultimately, that has proved to be the case. that is a very positive development. furthermore, it is also positive to note that, although a few taliban were elected, many prominent taliban were not successful in the elections. the former foreign minister, the former deputy interior minister and the former deputy justice minister were all defeated. i am sure that the voters knew whom they should not vote for. i would also like to say a few words about drugs. we realise that the drug question is still a very important one. we have also discussed it with president karzai and are working with the uk presidency to see what we can do in the future to tackle this problem even more robustly on two fronts – the first of which is alternative plantations, the second being justice and law – which are to be reinforced. finally, education is one of the key questions. i would like to put my finger on that issue for future programmes, not only because it applies to the whole of society, but specifically because, over many decades, women did not have any opportunities and we have to compensate for that in some way. in 2004 alone, we built 50 schools and childcare institutions. we also have a specific project for street children. i visited this project and, again, i must say that i saw how much courage and enthusiasm there is among the young children, the beautiful girls and really handsome boys who have a future. they want to get off the streets where they are normally selling vegetables and other small things. i agree that education and healthcare will be the key issues, and we will certainly continue to put our emphasis on those issues. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the november partsession.
the next item is the commission statement on the situation in azerbaijan before the elections.
member of the commission. madam president, i just wish to make a few points about this debate. the first is that we share the same concerns about this election process. we have seen that the freedom of the press and freedom of expression are sometimes violated and we must follow this whole process very carefully. however, i can say that the european neighbourhood action plan – which is not yet ready as we have only just begun negotiations – will provide an opportunity to promote democratic reform. it will also enable us to make many of our offers conditional upon further democratic reforms and respect for the rule of law. i agree, however, that with the new oil possibilities, it will not be as easy as we previously thought, because there will be more wealth in the future. secondly, i recently held talks with the three countries of the caucasus in new york during the millennium summit and the ministerial week. we also discussed the question of these flights. we hope that there will be a change. the situation is very clear and i was very adamant. we are now waiting for a high-level troika to come back to see how we can start these negotiations on the action plans. on nagorno-karabakh, we are ready to deploy a rehabilitation programme once a settlement is reached on the peace plan. it seems – and this is what i heard when i spoke to the two ministers – that there are some positive developments. i hope that this will happen after the azeri elections, on the one hand, and the armenian referendum, on the other. it is a very complicated question. i myself have often witnessed positive developments, for instance in 2000, when i was chairperson of the oecd. in the end, a stalemate was reached once again. however, there are possibilities and we would like to explore them. let me also say that we currently have a fully-fledged delegation in georgia, and a regionalised delegation covering armenia, while we intend to open a fully-fledged delegation to azerbaijan in 2007. we wanted to open a regionalised delegation but the azeris refused. they only wanted one of their own. it is also a financial question regarding funding for the external service. i hope we will get some funding under heading 4. finally, on radical islamism, our message to president aliyev was also very clear. we said that he would really be opening the way for radical islamism if he did not allow the political opposition any breathing space. i gather from this debate that we all agree on that. i hope that the azeris will hear our message.
in conclusion, i should like to inform you that i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 27 october 2005 at 11.30 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs anneli jäätteenmäki, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the barcelona process: a new approach (2005/2058 (ini)) (a6-0280/2005).
member of the commission. madam president, thank you very much for this very interesting debate. i think it is clear to all of us that the barcelona process, of which we are celebrating the 10th anniversary, is a very important and historic process, even if we differ somewhat in our assessments. i think we can all say that the barcelona process has already made a difference, although it has not been exploited to the full. i agree with those who said that we have to deepen and reinforce it and we have to motivate ourselves to carry on the work. i can tell you again, i am a passionate, i would even say activist for this barcelona process and therefore i have initiated this communication, of which i have spoken before, in which we have prioritised the most important areas, at least in my view. we cannot do everything at once: education, democracy, human rights and reforms and economic development are priorities, but we must not forget the cultural aspect and also our heritage - remember the euro-med heritage programme. what is the difference between barcelona and the neighbourhood policy? for some, this may be confusing. let me explain. barcelona is the multilateral platform, the multilateral process, it is the process from region to region. this does not exclude this complementary bilateral process in the neighbourhood policy, with a tailor-made programme for each country. why is that so important? as many of you know, different countries have different attitudes. i have just come back from lebanon, where we are working with the prime minister on his reform project, together with our action plan. there, i am very hopeful. i was also in jordan recently, where we will do everything we can to support the national agenda. the moroccan deputy minister was here today and we will be working very closely with the moroccans. there are other countries where i am somewhat disappointed and where we need to work together. but it is for the countries themselves to make a difference and for us to support them. although we have to share the responsibility and show solidarity, every country should first and foremost have ownership of its own process and reform. we should not forget that they have the primary responsibility for developing their own countries. the euro-med non-governmental platform presented its ideas in luxembourg from 1 to 3 april 2005, and this very successful civil forum was organized with a series of national consultations and concluded with the approval of a statute and the charter of the ngo platform, as well as the election of a governing board. there were quite a number of proposals, which is certainly positive. that was reinforced in the declaration to be made in barcelona. i know that the british presidency intends to give those ngos the right to speak and i think that is very positive and enriching for all of us. the commission has been organizing three press conferences and a media taskforce will be set up in 2006 to work on this. those who are not pursuing reforms in their own countries contribute to instability in those countries and thus in the region, whereas those who promote reforms improve stability in their countries and the region. finally, may i say that i regretted very much not being able to attend the euro-med parliamentary committee in rabat, but it was arranged on a day when the general affairs council, that is the council of foreign ministers, was meeting and my first obligation was to that meeting. otherwise i certainly would have attended.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 27 october 2005 at 11.30 a.m.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. you will have heard yesterday the statement by the president of iran, mr ahmadinejad, who, in reference to ayatollah khomeini, wants to destroy the state of israel. this is an outrageous act, because the iranian president is siding with terrorists! we have a high value for israel's integrity, its security, which we defend. i would like to announce on behalf of my group that we are going to make this a matter of discussion. we shall propose this in the next part-session of the european parliament and i would be grateful if the other groups could join us in this. we have mrs koch-mehrin and mr swoboda here and others who might support this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we too consider these statements - if they are true - unacceptable, scandalous and dangerous. it is quite shocking that a president at a conference called "world without zionism" speaks at all and then perhaps even expresses himself in this way. this is absolutely unacceptable and we support the proposal to raise this matter in parliament.
we have taken note of the proposals and you have announced that you will also bring them to the attention of the various bodies, such as the conference of presidents, in due course.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr manolis mavrommatis, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report 2004 on the activities of the european ombudsman (2005/2136 (ini)) (a6-0276/2005).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the committee on petitions and rapporteur mavrommatis very much for the success of their report, which seeks to address and resolve the main problems raised by the ombudsman in his report. the cooperation between the committee on petitions and the ombudsman has been very good over the past year. i believe it should also be a model for cooperation between the ombudsman and the commission and i will return to this later for cooperation between the ombudsman and the european council. although this cooperation was characterised by a high degree of cooperation in the vast majority of cases in 2004, it could have been more positive in a number of cases. the ombudsman's role, which does not exist in my home country, is of fundamental importance to the european union, since he communicates directly with the citizens of the european union and thus brings them closer to the institutions of the european union. in spite of all the difficulties mentioned by mr seeber, much has been achieved along this road. we should nevertheless continue to try to convince the citizens of the possibilities which you, mr ombudsman, have to detect shortcomings in european administration which are somewhat more serious than the one the honourable member has just described and to investigate these problems. the ombudsman's work ensures that the highest administrative standards are maintained within the european union and its institutions and bodies. even in the 113 cases out of a total of 251 where no maladministration was found, the ombudsman's work is helpful, as the institution concerned - the commission, for example - or the institution concerned can point out ways of improving quality in the future. in individual cases, the ombudsman can protect the institution from unjustified criticism because, as an outsider, he can claim absolute objectivity. the figures - as mr mavrommatis has pointed out - have been steadily increasing in recent years. i'm sure that's an expression of the confidence you have in me. we should, however, seek to establish a closer link between the interests of those citizens who turn to members and the work of your institution, so that we can deal with these concerns more efficiently and better. i would like to thank you very much for one thing. you have given a favourable answer to the request of the young union from germany - to which i myself belong - which was submitted together with mr brok. i would point out that the council, to which my criticism in this context is directed, is again today sadly absent. by not holding its meetings in public, the council is not fulfilling the objective of the european constitution, which it has itself co-adopted, namely to defend the interests of the citizens and the people of europe as openly as possible. it is indeed a positive sign that one european institution is taking a critical view of the actions of another european institution, guided solely by the objectives of the european constitution. i would like to thank you very much for that, mr diamandouros.
ombudsman. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking members of parliament for their kind remarks on the work of the ombudsman during the past year. i am deeply appreciative of the attention and the very careful and constructive comments. i note that a great many of the comments came from the new member states, which i welcome very much as an indication of their commitment to this institution. i welcome the tenor, the nature, the thrust and the intent of the remarks by the vice-president of the commission, mrs wallström. i am delighted to hear her formally announce the reform that the commission is about to adopt as of 1 november, which will make it possible for the complaints to be handled at a higher level, with a greater degree of responsibility and uniformity. i appreciate the commissioner’s commitment to greater cooperation, particularly the encouraging words concerning the proposed revision of the statute. i note, finally, that we can look forward to a binding code. i see that from your positive remarks and i am very grateful for the political will you have demonstrated on issues to do with the ombudsman. that is exactly the kind of cooperation i look forward to from the commission. i want to thank the commissioner for that publicly. concerning the various comments from members, allow me to mention briefly those of mr seeber. clearly we have a high percentage of inadmissibles, but we have managed to help 70% of those who come to us and whose complaints are not admissible. i find that to be a satisfactory percentage of citizens we can help, even though they are outside the mandate. i wish to thank mr de rossa for his remarks. at the last meeting of the national ombudsmen held in september in the hague, we took specific decisions on how to address, through the network, mechanisms to expedite the handling of issues outside the mandate. i hope to be able to take further steps to reduce the number of inadmissibles. concerning mr hammerstein mintz’s remarks, for which i thank him, the report that he referred to relates to 2005. it is therefore not part of my report to this body for 2004; it is a report concerning olaf that will be examined next year. as far as i am concerned, i have completed my duty to parliament and have submitted a special report. it is now up to this august body as to how it wishes to move forward. i appreciate the remarks from mr borghezio and mr martinez, but i need to point out that the ombudsman, unlike parliament, is not a political body. therefore, it is not within my mandate to get involved in the kind of political activities that you are asking of me. i fear that, were i to do so, this body – to which i am ultimately accountable – would object to my taking political initiatives which are beyond my mandate. je suis conscient, m. martinez, du problème qui découle de votre qualité de membre non inscrit. mais, encore une fois, je m'en tiens au contenu de vos remarques. or, vos remarques sortent du champ de mes compétences dès lors qu'elles portent plutôt sur des questions politiques. i want to thank mr libicki for his cooperation in his capacity as chairman of the committee on petitions. i am also grateful to all the staff of the committee for their help and i hope that this cooperation will continue. the remarks by mrs dobolyi and mr olajos were very constructive. let me just say to mr olajos that i am currently dealing with a case concerning discrimination in language candidacies. i have asked for further information. that particular case is still being examined and i hope to be able to report to this body next year on the outcome. finally, let me say to mrs grabowska that i am, as you know, very sensitive to issues concerning children. one of my special reports to this body this year had to do with the special education needs of severely disabled children. therefore this is very much a concern of mine and i will be happy to consider any other complaints. i have not in fact received any other complaints relating to children. nor i am aware of having received any complaint about recruitment and the filling of senior posts. however, because i receive many complaints concerning recruitment, i shall be very sensitive to that issue. lastly, i know there is a case concerning recruitment pending before the court of first instance. that is therefore automatically outside my mandate and i will have to await the decision of the judicial authorities. i should like to thank members of parliament and the commissioner again for their remarks and support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. (the sitting was suspended from 11.25 to 11.30 a.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask that the resolution be put to the vote anyway. i thought it right to advocate in the conference of presidents that there should be no resolution, considering that we should wait for the outcome of the delegation and then draft the resolution. as the chairman of the group of the european people's party, i am naturally dependent on the support of the group, and i have reported this to my group this morning. the group of the european people's party was unanimous in its view that we should draft a resolution today. that is to say - and i am not ashamed of it - the group did not agree with the chairman of the group. (applause from the centre) as i am responsible for the vote of the group and as a good democrat, i am committed to this. ... our group believes that we should not wait for the outcome of the delegation but should speak out on the matter now. the epp-ed group therefore calls for a resolution to be adopted today. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the spd meps in the european parliament are in favour of a travel bill according to the costs incurred. we do not, however, accept any amendment calling on the president to behave in an irregular manner.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i am also happy that we are having this debate today. this is a clear blow to the president and the conference of presidents, because otherwise we would have set a very dangerous precedent. on thursday, the conference of presidents considered western sahara to be one of the three most urgent human rights problems we have to deal with. the same view prevailed on monday without any contradiction. then an ambassador ran around, and a little later they found out that a delegation was on its way. that would have set a precedent. then, because of a dinner with mr putin next time, and a lunch with the chinese consul general the next time, or for some other reason, a human rights issue could have been arbitrarily taken off the agenda again and again. no group in this house can accept that. i am a friend of morocco and i believe that there are different sides to this conflict. morocco, like western sahara, was a victim of colonialism, and the borders in the desert were simply drawn with a ruler by colonial powers at the time. it is therefore a complex issue which can only be resolved through negotiation and consensus. it is in the interests of both sides that our delegation can work there unhindered, which is a minimum, a matter of course. it is a monstrous thing to threaten that this may not be the case. we respect both sides and we want to contribute to peace. but one thing must be clear: peace is only possible on the basis of law, and law is international law, and above all human rights. without absolute respect for human rights and the release of all political prisoners, peace negotiations are not possible either. that's why we're available as a partner for mediation services and for good services. we do not take a one-sided position, especially as the european people's party. but we are quite clear that human rights are human rights and political prisoners are political prisoners and that the latter should be released without question if we are really to find a solution to this delicate question.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not uzbekistan is an ancient cultural landscape that gave rise to states such as the khanates of bukhara and kokand, among others, but then fell victim to aggressive colonialism. we have spoken today of european colonialism in africa, but there it was soviet communist colonialism and before that, tsarist colonialism in central asia. this colonialism did not end until 1989, with the fall of the communist regimes in central europe. i would like to say that to mr kohlíček. we have an obligation to be realistic about the situation there. these countries have been punished with monocultures, they have been plundered, they have been sucked out, and now they are painstakingly working towards statehood. it is a matter of understanding, and for that reason they need our full and intensive help. this does not mean that we tolerate human rights violations. our call is clear and unequivocal: we demand that the uzbek government stop obstructing the investigations, which are overdue, and that it release all prisoners and grant basic and human rights. but we shall only move forward here by means of dialogue, not unilateral patronage! we must also recognize that there are terrorist and destabilising elements throughout the region and that moscow's influence continues, and that it has only recently supplied uzbekistan with large-scale plate mines - we have often dealt with this in the house - to build up border installations, for example. russian troops are still acting here as if they were still colonial entities! we cannot simply accept this either, especially since important geostrategic interests of the powers are also clashing in this area, including in the energy sector. the european union must be able to take action to protect human rights and to ensure that the rights of the palestinian people are respected.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. instead, one eu member germany is working closely with uzbekistan. germany operates a geopolitical in particular for the military operation in afghanistan central military base in termes. it is not a nato base, but is used by nato countries, i was told by nato. the eu countries of the netherlands, belgium, sweden, norway, denmark, the united kingdom, france, greece and spain also use this bundeswehr base. germany provides uzbekistan with extensive economic and military aid. we are talking about two billion euros, munitions factories being made available, old weapons, etc. the eu's human rights policy is hypocritical when it rightly criticises the brutal violations of human rights and supports the uzbek regime militarily and economically for geopolitical reasons.
a writer. the commission is not with our resolutions of 18 november 2004 and 13 january 2005, and massive diplomatic protests and actions by human rights organisations, we have achieved a number of things: the death sentence against the respected lama tenzin delek rinpoche has been commuted to life imprisonment. chinese authorities accuse him of being a criminal. he's undermining the security of the state. his alleged involvement in bombings has not been proven. the right to a fair trial under international observation continues to be denied. the real reason for his imprisonment - and i agree with the two speakers who have spoken before - is his great influence on the tibetan people and his support for the dalai lama. the death sentence that was overturned now seems to be carried out in a different way. after his martyrdom of torture and solitary confinement, he can neither speak nor move. his condition is life-threatening. all the groups in this house call on the chinese to improve the conditions of detention immediately and to adhere strictly to the un convention on the treatment of prisoners. we insist on the guarantee of free access to tenzin rinpoche for manfred nowak, the un special rapporteur on torture. he's going to be in china in three weeks on an inspection tour. the eu commission, council and member states must link the further fate of political prisoners in this country closely to the maintenance of the arms embargo against china. as long as human rights are being violated, the embargo must remain in place without any relaxation. the chinese embassy in brussels tried to intervene. she claims it's an internal matter. no organization or individual has the right to interfere from outside. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-china dialogue, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations charter. the epp-ed group strongly emphasises the need to respect international standards of value. there is an important message for all those who are persecuted for political, religious or cultural reasons, because the european union makes cooperation with all countries conditional on respect for human rights without exception. if we want cooperation instead of confrontation, we must respect human rights and refrain from violating them. human rights are universal! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am pleased to speak directly after the rapporteur. globalisation is leading to increased productivity in the economy - no doubt - as well as to lower costs and to a convergence of different business cultures. that's the good part. but it also leads to a massive increase in competition, with sometimes serious job losses and great anxiety among workers. mr christensen, you are absolutely right: the benefits of globalisation are not evenly distributed! the epp-ed group is in favour of taking advantage of progress - namely the progress that globalisation brings - and tackling the solution of structural problems. we need reform if we want to be forward-looking and if we want to be competitive. at the same time, we must ensure that social challenges can be met through innovative measures. my colleague mihael brejc wrote an excellent report in june. he was balanced enough, he focused on the essentials and he showed clear solutions. however, its 17 compact points suddenly became 39 bloated figures because some colleagues on the left of the house felt that a completely different dimension had to be introduced into the report. i don't agree with that! for example, institutions that are capable of acting suddenly become instruments of regulation. you can see the red tape coming. the european commission is invited to review fisheries partnership agreements for their compatibility with the millennium development goals. and the threat of environmental destruction and the loss of biodiversity is cited as a major issue. if the topic is "it's about the ecological dimension of globalization" please, we can talk about it. but the topic is called "the social dimension of globalization". we must concentrate on the subject once in a while, so there are still considerable problems. grotesk, the commissioner, and the council, the commission and the council, and the european parliament, and the council, and the commission itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. they are a sustainable process requiring significant financial transactions and long-term management decisions. let us clear up the thickness of repetition, of thematic foreign bodies and of ideological lyricism. the key demands of the owninitiative report are very clear: comprehensive investment in human capital, more quality in national education systems, promotion of vocational skills - more urgently needed than ever - and the creation of quality jobs in line with the lisbon strategy. what about the ilo? i agree with the rapporteur and with some of those who have spoken so far. the ilo must pay greater attention to decent working conditions. we must continue to fight to prevent social exclusion, to abolish child labour and to win the fight against poverty. the ilo needs observer status within the wto. and we are in favour of institutionalising a multi-stakeholder forum on corporate social responsibility. in order to create new jobs, smes need to be better connected so that they can participate actively in the globalised economy. to strengthen the social dimension, the social partners must be involved in all decision-making processes.
the commission has already done so. i share the views of my slovenian colleague mr brejc in many areas, but i do not agree with him at every stage. they say that the lisbon agenda will also bring the solution to the social component of globalisation. it's not gonna happen! it's 2005, half the time is up. we did a mid-term evaluation. we have criticized that these methods alone will not work. globalisation has contributed to a great deal of wealth, but - mr hökmark - it has also contributed to a great deal of poverty, to more exclusion, to more social differentiation. and social differentiation is not equality and justice for all. secondly, we should talk more about the gothenburg summit, because it is there that the triangle between the economic, social and ecological dimensions has been anchored. that's the whole point. trade itself must be liberal, but liberalism alone will not bring us social progress, because we need environmental, occupational and social standards. and only if we include them and take them into account, then we really have a chance to make trade fair worldwide. that is something completely different from your approach, and that is why hong kong is now going to go back to the way it has gone before. if we are capricious only about trade and do not take into account the other necessary social components, we will not achieve anything. i believe we have a chance if we enforce the existing international standards and only import into the european union goods produced in accordance with these standards. it would help us and turn the spiral around.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. my group supports this motion for an initiative, including the question to the commission. the answer was clear, and i hope we will now move forward with this common strategy. i have been in this parliament for a long time and i can remember many attempts. i also remember the problems raised by my predecessor, mr belet: technological neutrality. that's a very important keyword for the competition. we had a problem like this a few years ago. the fact that the frequency interference with analogue broadcasting plays an important role, that it can even hinder us in some of our development, has been recognized and addressed. i think we must take great care to ensure that this does not hinder development. but it is also very important for me and for our group to stress once again that we must succeed in providing transparent, open, fair and timely information to the citizens of the european union, the consumers who will then have to buy and use this technology, in order to reduce fears and resistance. if you go to the shops, and i sometimes do, you can see what the manufacturers' offers are: there are these digital tv sets. the customers are watching this and they're seeing a dvd in digital form and they're excited about the picture quality, and then they're seeing an analogue tv program on the same screen and they're amazed at how much difference there is. i believe that if you tell people the benefits and give them clear information about when this changeover will take place; if the industry is pricing fairly for market penetration of these devices, i am optimistic that we will have caught up with the competition in this area in the rest of the world by 2010. but it is important to me to ensure that we take our citizens on this journey into the digital television age in time. otherwise, i would like to thank you for the - as always - warm, intensive and good cooperation with mrs barsi-pataky.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we talk a lot about the issues of technology here. it's about broadcasting. broadcasting is not just technology, but broadcasting is fundamental to three areas of our society that should be important to us: for culture, for social cohesion and for democratic development. so it's not enough to talk about technology. technology is very important. it's the engine of the digital revolution right now in broadcasting. it is also the engine for the development of much-needed, future-oriented jobs. the broadcasting sector is therefore both a cultural and an economic asset. i would urge the commission to take this ambivalence and this duplicity of broadcasting more seriously than has been shown in the commission's papers and communications to date. i therefore welcome the resolution of the committee on industry, research and energy and i very much hope that in the future we will be able to extend the cooperation between the committee on industry and the committee on culture and education. the resolution is a very good basis for this. i urge the commission to take this resolution seriously if it is to make the transition in the next few years. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. if you really want to enable the member states to do this, it is urgently necessary to clarify the question of aid and european competition law. they see that we are going to take this resolution very seriously and they urge the commission to take it seriously in the interests of the citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. – commissioner, i would like to point out a few aspects to you. you showed how disappointed you are, which is no surprise after a second negative arbitration decision. that is no pleasure, but i can tell you after looking at the website that the story of bananas is a never-ending one; so you should not be too disappointed. i am sure this issue will be with us for many more years to come and even if this is resolved, another one will come up. that seems to be inherent in the case of bananas. maybe you could be a little more precise and explain the timeframe for action. there is not a lot of time left, but i would like to know what timeframe you have in mind. secondly, what are the different scenarios you are evaluating? for the committee on international trade, it would be more than relevant to know what you have in mind. finally, as my colleague said, i wonder whether this is not going to overshadow hong kong. i would like to know how you are going to make a situation that is not easy in any case – given that sugar and many other difficult issues are on the agenda – look a little more positive.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that goes for sugar, too. this is a good example, with the difference that here in europe we hardly produce bananas, if you leave out the peripheral areas. so it's a better situation than when the soviet union fell and germany was united. when the central and eastern european countries joined the european union, those who had been supplying west germany - the producers of the dollar bananas - thought they could now supply the rest of the eu. and they thought that with this common market order, which did not exist before, free trade in bananas would be enforced, and then we would push our dollar bananas into the whole of the eu and see where the others would stay. we had an intensive debate in the european parliament at the time. the commission was on our side at the time and we have created a sensible market order which is now being discussed again and again. but it's not like the dollar bananas have gone down and americans are trading less. no, their share has been greatly increased. it just went the other way. but if we had not introduced these criteria, if we had not had quotas, then the acp countries with their so-called little bananas would have been out of business long ago. this would have cost hundreds of thousands or millions of small banana farmers their livelihoods. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what i would like from you is - and this is also the case with sugar - that this debate is conducted within the european union and that we do not simply think we can take a quantitative approach to the proposal for liberalisation, leaving politics and social and environmental concerns out of the equation, but that the commission, as the champion of these quality criteria, speaks out clearly and ensures that social, labour and environmental concerns are taken into account and reflected in trade relations worldwide. this is particularly true of the instrument of quotas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after witnessing the entrance to parliament blocked for three quarters of an hour by strasbourg taxi drivers yesterday at noon, i found out this morning that - apparently on the orders of the head of security, fernando suarez - german taxis were no longer allowed to enter the parliament grounds, so that passengers had to get off outside without any reason, as one taxi driver explained to me. i consider this to be an absolute scandal, a discrimination, and i call on the administration to withdraw this order to stop people from entering. i'll check in an hour to see if the taxis are allowed back in. i really wonder where we are, how it is possible that we are giving in to the pressure of yesterday's road and not allowing taxis to drive on parliament's grounds.
i would like to give you a first piece of information: it is absolutely certain that no instructions have been given by parliament in this regard. we cannot rule out the possibility that the french taxi drivers' organisations will take action in some form. we shall put the matter to the committee for consideration. we can deal with this at the administrative level immediately.
the next item is the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for 2004.
mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can agree with what mr bösch said. i think we are making it a little too easy for ourselves if we say that 80% of the funds are managed by the member states and that is why we ask them to ensure that everything is running smoothly. all the problems we have had in recent years, and which led to the resignation of the commission in 1999, were not problems with funds managed at national level, but with funds managed by the european commission itself. i will make this very clear: the terence wynn report said that we want to involve the national and also the regional audit bodies, where they exist, in the discharge procedure. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i am opposed - and i say this very clearly - to transferring what we are doing in europe and what is your task, mr president of the court of auditors, to the national systems. we should think about doing it the other way around in terms of the test frame. we have to improve things in europe too and we can certainly learn from the member states. it is the wisdom and the wisdom of the heads of state and government that will provide the necessary legal framework to make this possible. it is not your problem, mr weber, but the problem of those who have to give you the mandate. it is not us, it is the heads of state and government. this attitude - and i say this very clearly as a member of the committee on budgets - must be condemned: you do not want to pay anything into the eu, but you do want to take as much of it back to your own country as possible, but you do not want to let anyone in brussels look into it. this attitude, that's our theme, and that's where we have to start. we have done something for europe, for credibility and for the people. the crucial thing is not the court of auditors' report - which is important - but what we as parliament do with it. i look forward to the debates in the committee on budgetary control and to the discharge procedure, which will then be concluded in the spring.
president of the court of auditors. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is a great day for the european court of auditors because we are able to present our report at a political level, in the presence of the vice-president of the commission, mr kallas. we are very grateful to the political authorities for their feedback on our work. we have shown in this report that there have been significant improvements. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will continue to make progress in this area. the importance of explanations was mentioned. i can only agree with that, but the explanations are not all. we should rather go to the source of the errors and look for the incentive for reform there. we ran hundreds of samples, checked transactions. we have discovered hundreds of errors, errors of both formal and substantive nature. these errors are known at commission level and are being dealt with by the commission. they are also known at the level of the member states. this is where we should start. i believe - and i am also addressing this to mr martin - that our mandate is an excellent mandate, we are satisfied with it, we do not need another. we're doing very well in international comparison. it's just a matter of getting our findings taken seriously and implemented in a timely manner. it is not enough that we introduce a new system, we must also use the new system and make it practical. it was also made clear that the legal framework needed to be simplified. we will not make improvements in many areas if we continue to have such complicated procedures. i must also say that if we are imposing such a strict standard on the institutions we are examining, then we must also tolerate that this strict framework is imposed on us. this will be done through a planned peer review. it is always said that the court of auditors is in favour of more audits. no, we don't want that. we do not want more tests, we want more effective, more efficient tests, which in turn also teach lessons.
the debate on this point is closed. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments.) the written declaration (article 142)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the 2006 work programme is not just any programme. it must be a programme that makes the eu visible again to every citizen, and in a positive way. the eu's credibility and acceptance problem may no longer be in the headlines, but it is still there, of course, and it can return to the headlines at any time. it's not over yet. this makes the challenge for the eu all the greater: its policies must show that they are worthwhile for its citizens. this is achieved by comprehensible policies that produce results, and the best possible results. this does not mean producing as much legislation as possible with the widest possible impact on the largest possible population. no, the basic theme of the common european policy must always be: how can we bring europe to the fore? the title of the work programme, 'unlocking europe's full potential', is very appropriate. that was the liberal party's programme in 2004, by the way, and i'm glad you've taken up that. i therefore welcome the fact that the work programme has been drawn up in cooperation with parliament's committees. it is a step in the right direction to draw up a joint programme for all the eu institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the four central areas - they have already been mentioned - are quite correct. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the structure and content of the work programme do not satisfy this requirement of proximity to the citizen. it is not better regulation if the two parts which are being presented have nothing to do with each other and there is therefore no link in this programme. mr barroso, i would like to highlight some areas which are particularly important to us liberals and democrats. it is very good that the lisbon agenda is given top priority. consistent policies on education, research and growth will create more jobs and make the eu more competitive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also important to push forward with ambition the reform of agricultural policy, for example by shifting more of its resources to agricultural research and technology. in the field of internal security, we believe that two aspects must be equally important, namely the need for security and respect for freedoms. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of terrorism, because it will not achieve greater security and will not defeat terrorism if the very freedoms of the eu that terrorism is fighting are curtailed. mr barroso, commissioners, europe is the world's only model for creating lasting peace between countries that were once enemies. europe is also unique in its peaceful export of market economies, democracy and human rights. that's great, but to stay successful, it needs to be a shared direction. where does europe want to go next? our duty as european legislators is therefore to find answers that are understandable, reliable and prompt. this must be our daily craft and our daily work. we must do this together in the coming weeks, as an example for this 2006 work programme. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of education and training. europe was and is one such idea. the work programme can be a mosaic of this idea. it must, however, be appropriate to a europe which wants to go forward and, above all, to be stronger.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for the development of the internal market. respect for the man! it is not that europe has no plans. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new multiannual financial framework for the period 2007-2013. so, basically, we're talking about a pack of crooks today. and what about subsidiarity, the subsidiarity test? the council, which is today shining through its absence, has once again embarrassed itself by not participating in these planning activities in terms of content, let alone setting priorities. in a letter dated 19 october, the two presidencies for the coming year, austria and finland, even announced their own work programme for 2006. so it is a matter of great interest to see how all these things can be combined. the council itself could have given a good example of subsidiarity by this consultation procedure and by involving the national parliaments, as the constitution provides. it could have also made a statement in this procedure and approached parliament and the commission instead of leaving us all in the dark about how things should proceed and what proposals the council itself should make. the european parliament has set up a reserve for commission posts, the release of which is subject to agreement on the work programme. it would be good if this work programme really covered all the projects that we already know are on the agenda for 2006, and if the idea of subsidiarity were more respected in terms of both procedures and content.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the 2006 work programme is a great opportunity for the european institutions. we have the chance to signal to the population that we have understood them: that the negative referendums in france and also in the netherlands have something to do with european over-regulation and patronage, that europe should only set the framework conditions and not interfere in national competences in detail. i welcome the commission's promise of better regulation for 2006. i welcome the introduction to the work programme which refers to better regulation, subsidiarity, cost-effectiveness and impact assessment. i see good approaches in the work programme, for example in the areas of growth and security policy. the overall impression of the work programme is, unfortunately, more business as usual than better regulation. that's three points. firstly, the financial perspective. i miss the commission's active role in resolving the conflict. i am missing proposals on how we can implement a strong structural policy with less money, for example by means of private co-financing or interest subsidies. secondly, new guidelines for environmental protection and energy saving. we already have more than a dozen european acts in the field of energy efficiency alone. for every new directive now proposed, we would have to give up three old ones. but nothing is happening in that direction. thirdly, why is europe attracting more and more social skills? we have to be very careful about the way we treat the citizens of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i call for a more intensive debate on the legitimacy of european legislation. i call for a real start on the way out of over-regulation.
mr president, mr president of the commission! the subject is the 2006 work programme which we are going to undertake. the first remark i make not only to the commission but also to my colleagues in the european parliament is that we take seriously what we always put on our own agenda and call for less and better regulation in our calls for the commission to present its views on the internal market and efficiency. we must not regularly counter our own demands by calling on the european legislator immediately when we consider something necessary. so a little more self-discipline is in order. as far as better regulation is concerned, the first actions taken by the commission are very positive, a first step in the right direction. we are asking the commission to be even more consistent in the future and to set a benchmark for comparing national implementation with that of the countries which are involved in the famous gold plating, and to make it clear who is effectively and well implementing european legislation and who is introducing additional burdens. another request to the commission: we have, in fact, encouraged the friends of the presidency in the field of comitology, through the basle ii report, to reach agreements between the commission, the council and parliament on the rights of parliament. this work begins now. we shall have in future legislation, as regards comitology, particularly in the area of financial services, essential clauses to eliminate this. i would ask the commission - and commissioner mccreevy has already done the preparatory work - to help us reach an agreement which makes the comitology between parliament and the council more manageable. the council is in a position where it is not always very cooperative.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm a little out of it right now. i'm coming through the walkway of the winston churchill building. there's an exhibition there that shows abortion and concentration camps in one exhibition. i am outraged that this is possible again in the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i ask that the exhibition be stopped immediately, even if it has been approved. these are images that are against the honor of all women. i ask that the exhibition be stopped immediately. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as regards mrs gröner's subject, i would ask the bureau not to censure but to give us the opportunity - i do not know the exhibition - to look at it and then decide tomorrow by a majority, as is customary in a democracy. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the amendment to regulation 1408/71 aims at the annual update to achieve the improvement of living standards and working conditions of eu citizens. i agreed to this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is therefore contrary to the spirit of the vo if, for example, the german employer has to transfer to poland a total of 47.85% of the social security contributions for polish seasonal workers (employer 20.64%, employee 27.27%) with an unreasonable amount of bureaucratic effort, especially if the activity of the seasonal workers was exempt from social security under german law before poland's accession to the eu. this leads to dramatic, existential cost increases for the employer farms which cannot be offset by price increases. the seasonal workers will not want to work for a net wage reduction of 27%. the result is that they are invited only in a limited way, with corresponding negative financial consequences for the construction of the candidate countries. experience has shown that the demand for seasonal workers cannot be met on the german labour market. so there are losers on all sides. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (email) and on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (email).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a small note on the rules of procedure: it has been the custom in this house for the rapporteurs to state the position of the committee. in this case mr sacconi is actually the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i wish he had taken the position of the committee on the environment. i would ask you, as president, to indicate in future whether these are personal speeches or speeches by the rapporteurs.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not reach, one of the most complex legislative procedures - not only because of its 1 200 pages - has been dealt with by ten committees of the european parliament, including the committee on employment and social affairs, for which i am the draftsman of the opinion. the chemical industry employs 1.7 million people in the eu, about 3 million of whom are suppliers. to find out how reach is affecting everyday business, i visited 50 companies in the paint and coatings, ceramics, textiles, electrical engineering, automotive suppliers and chemicals sectors, not just in germany. the consensus of managers and employees: there is no alternative to protecting the environment and health, and a clear distinction must be made between hazardous and non-hazardous substances, not least for the sake of the employees. the commission proposal, however, is so expensive and so bureaucratic that it threatens to distort competition with non-eu companies and relocations cannot be ruled out. in october 2004, we in the committee on employment and social affairs held the first hearing of a house of lords committee on reach, involving 200 experts in the fields of labour law and health and safety, as well as representatives of the social partners. on 12 july 2005, we voted, also as the first committee, and we certainly sent important signals for the european parliament's deliberations. we are in favour of a uniform pre-registration and prioritization. a core data set based on actual risk, not quantity, and exposure and use categories can make reporting to the agency as timely and as fast as possible. data cemeteries and unnecessary red tape are avoided, which is particularly beneficial for small and medium-sized enterprises. we voted by a majority in favour of derogations for substances in research and development and for the extension of the powers of the new agency. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including the introduction of a new system of safety and health at work. the priority is to develop safety data sheets and apply them precisely within the company in order to avoid accidents due to improper handling of substances.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. if this reach act comes into force, the environment and consumer protection will be the clear winners. in the next 11 years we will have knowledge and information on some 30 000 substances which are used in the european economy and which we have not been able to obtain until now. that is the crucial point. this is done by transferring the responsibility for the acquisition of information and testing and the burden of costs to the companies in the future. companies will be responsible for ensuring that the substances they produce and handle are handled safely. this is the crucial change from the previous law. this is a considerable expense, which i think it is worth mentioning. these tests cost money. up to €200,000! in the future, in the interests of the environment and consumer protection, these costs will have to be borne by the companies themselves. it is therefore necessary that we also consider the impact on competitiveness. the compromise was the one which my colleague guido sacconi and i were able to reach and which our groups have kindly approved. this will make the data requirement in the range of 1-100 tonnes, which is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, more dependent on the risk that a substance may pose, rather than just the quantity in which it is produced. this is a crucial step forward for small and medium-sized producers and users. i am very pleased that we have managed to reach this compromise. of course, we are fully in favour of this. we have tabled old amendments as a precaution in case we do not get a majority. however, this compromise only concerns the most important part of reach, registration, and by no means all of it. the questions of authorization and scope are open, and i hope that we can reach agreement on that too.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. in the short space of two minutes i must confine myself to a few points. firstly, a general remark on the overall package: europe is a large economic area of almost 500 million people, and it is right that we should take a leading role for this area, particularly in the field of environmental protection, with a common binding legal framework. but europe is not a secluded part of the world, nor should it be, but it is in competition with other large industrial regions throughout the world and it serves the well-intentioned aims, especially those of environmental protection, not if production is transferred to other regions of the world in the future and environmental problems are thereby possibly increased, then we will be hit in the same way, but at the same time we will also suffer considerable economic damage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. this aspect is also relevant to an important issue in the regulation, namely the protection of intellectual property and the protection of confidential data, which has played a special role in the legal affairs committee and which i shall briefly address in detail. the commission proposal as it stands does not sufficiently take account of this and is inadequate. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. if european companies have to disclose a lot of data, it can be seen from the outside, conclusions can be drawn from it. the reverse is not true. this is contrary to fair competition worldwide. the legal committee has therefore adopted a number of amendments to take account of this. part of this has been incorporated into the overall package, namely in the extension of deadlines; mr sacconi briefly touched on this earlier. the commission has not adopted amendments nos 43, 45, 46 and 48 on the improvement of data confidentiality, which i would like to see adopted.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission is not i would like to make a point of introducing the position of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and not, as some of my colleagues have done, to use the time available to speak to present my personal views. the committee on women's rights supports the commission's proposal on reach by a large majority. women are particularly vulnerable to chemical exposure because the female body more easily accumulates dangerous fat-soluble substances. chemicals build up in the body and can cause cancer. the rate of breast cancer in europe has doubled in the last twenty years. one in nine women in europe is affected by cancer, and the causes are often linked to chemicals. chemicals can also damage embryos and reduce fertility. 15% of all couples in europe are unintentionally childless. men's sperm quality has halved in the last few years. genes can be altered and allergies can be triggered. children too are affected by chemicals. the rate of cancer in children is increasing by 1% a year and cancer has become the second leading cause of death in children. women unwittingly pass the entire chemical cocktail on to their children during pregnancy and breast-feeding. the committee therefore sees reach as a unique opportunity to better protect people and the environment from hazardous chemicals. he was clearly in favour of a clear reach. in particular, the women's committee has made it clear that it wants strict registration. he even proposed that chemicals be registered from 10 kilograms to a tonne. the women's committee wants mandatory substitution and also wants imported products to be covered by registration. he clearly wants a limited admission and he calls for a clear substitution... (the president withdraws the speaker.)
mr president, i would like to point out that mrs hassi did not put forward the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, but merely her personal opinion, which was not a majority opinion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission proposal is too bureaucratic, too expensive; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the proposal was not put forward by the two commissioners but by their predecessors. the current changed attitude is therefore to be welcomed. secondly, the proposals which the committee on the environment has put forward in addition to these can be implemented by the large companies, but not by the small ones. the green group and others have repeatedly advocated an anti-middle-class attitude. we have agreed on a number of principles in some committees by a large majority. firstly, companies have a responsibility, but they have to take precautions. secondly, the minimum requirements and the data available are available more quickly, within 18 months. thirdly, the scope of the audit must be risk-oriented and flexible. the exposure and use categories must be available until the end of the user chain. fourthly, voluntary cooperation must be encouraged and not forced consortia, as the british presidency of the council is still proposing. fifthly, the repetition of animal experiments must be avoided. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. fair competition must be ensured, in particular as regards the treatment of imports, article 6. the authorisation must be granted for an unlimited period and may be subject to review under certain conditions. the smes must be given more consideration. i believe that the whole issue is solely responsible for these changes, and i am grateful to all those who have worked on it in the various committees and in different capacities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can certainly agree with mr vidal-quadras. we have found very committed compromises in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, and if we now look at the compromise package negotiated by mr sacconi and mr nassauer, we see that we are in fact following a similar philosophy: that we want to do everything possible to pursue a sound industrial policy, to develop it further and to maintain competitiveness, but that we do not forget the second pillar, namely health, the environment and the protection of workers. that's part of it. i think that is part of the compromise. but all this will be difficult, and we shall see how we negotiate tomorrow. we have one day before the vote. we have the compromise package, but it only covers the area of registration. we will have to look at what we can achieve in the other areas - from the licensing to the issues of how we deal with data protection and many other issues. the presidency has given instructions. i would be glad if we could reach a decent compromise in these negotiations later this year, also in the council, and if the matter would not be put on the back burner. i would also like to advise all the members who have spoken on germany to consider that there is also a link between a decent national industrial policy, which may be pursued in one member state - and this is also true for the nordic countries - and a decent industrial policy pursued in europe, to give just one example of the keyword competitiveness. germany is the third largest chemical producer in the world, after the usa and japan and ahead of france, china and italy; it accounts for over 25% of the turnover of chemical products in the european union and represents more than one in four chemical jobs in the european union. these are figures which should be taken into account because they are important for germany, but also for the european union, especially for the preservation of jobs. eur 7.7 billion was spent on research in 2004 alone. we always talk so generously about how much research we want and that we want companies to invest. let's support them for once. a final figure on the size of chemical companies in europe: 92.5% of chemical companies are small and medium-sized enterprises. this is another figure that we should take into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we vote on reach now, it will be at the end of a debate which has lasted almost two years and which was very ideologized at the very beginning. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can tell you that politics is more than the environment committee, parliament is more than the green group and the european union is more than scandinavia. i would like to join my colleague in this: we are working here in the interests of europe. i am putting this on my colleagues in other countries and i am also using it for myself. however, the ideologisation was also initially driven by the economy, so that some felt that they had to predict the downfall of industry, which was certainly just as exaggerated. the debate has become more objective, and that is necessary. i would like to thank in particular mr nassauer and mr sacconi for the very good way in which they have handled this difficult dossier. we must be very clear that without simplification of the legal requirements, without costly external support and without practical implementation instruments, the majority of smes, especially those at the end of the product chain, would be significantly overburdened with the commission's draft in its original form. this is why we support action objection, a european alliance of smes that has actively participated in the debate and demonstrated in practice what reach means in practice. our brussels legislation has already reached a level of complexity that is often beyond the reach of smes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the compromise proposal completes the necessary paradigm shift towards a more risk-based approach to registration. this is a good thing, because that is precisely the crucial weakness of the commission's proposal. in fact, there is a concern that the deselection of substances from the market would be purely cost driven by risk-neutral data requirements. in that case, reach would have missed a key objective and would have also weakened the innovation base of european industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. any dilution of reach would mean that this proposal for a regulation would lose its teeth. the false compromise between mr schulz and mr poettering is nothing more than the implementation of the wish list of the german chemical industry. the winner would be industry, and the loser would be the environment and consumer protection. she'd be the nail in the coffin for this chemistry reform. we need a strong reach, we need a tue for chemicals, and we cannot allow a lack of information and a lack of transparency to be rewarded. it is not possible that out of the 30 000 substances planned, only 12 000 remain. this would mean that the basic principle of reach, namely 'whoever does not provide safety data will not get marketing', would be completely eroded. the heart of reach is also the reversal of the burden of proof, which some in the european parliament want to eliminate completely. i appeal to you: do not let the german chemical industry play tricks on you! we are not going to let this be a test case for you to be the poster child for this grand coalition in berlin. without a strong reach, people become guinea pigs for untested chemicals. blind flight and ignorance would be written down. without reach, the risk of cancer and the increase in environmental diseases would increase. i therefore appeal to you to commit to a strong reach! we cannot leave it to industry to decide which data to provide and which not. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already done so. dear guido sacconi, i would like to thank you for your excellent work, even though we may have had our differences of opinion on this matter from time to time. but i also thank the important authors of the opinions of the committees, mrs ek and mr hartmut nassauer. let me say a few words about the meaning of reach. i have been a member of this house for 17 years. i believe that this is one of the biggest and most important reports we have discussed in this house. it also has profound implications for health - we hope - and for industry. on one point i am exceptionally disagreeing with commissioner verheugen. i am glad he is back. the new commission has done an excellent job on this dossier, but when this 1 200 page report was brought to the table of this house it was with little explanation and little information, so that the debate was very watered down and very darkly presented by the other side of the spectrum outside this house in the months that followed. i am glad that we are on the way today to bringing together the two legs of reach, consumer protection and industrial policy, to have a real and groundbreaking paper for the future. 1,200 pages of this has a huge consequence. i am pleased that we have included the exposure approach in this report, from about half a tonne to 100 tonnes. this is exactly my approach to bring attention to a subject that is close to my heart, namely the testing of chemicals in tobacco, in cigarettes. it's not about the tobacco. it is not about banning smoking, but about testing for chemicals that are added by human hands in cigarettes and cigarette paper, no more and no less. our concern is that these substances could be hereditary. we are concerned that they are carcinogenic and that they are addictive. it's a big concern of mine. i ask for your support. i would like to thank the rapporteurs once again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the data requirement for registration, one of the key elements of the regulation, is a very good compromise supported by the three major groups in this house. i would like to make one more point with regard to the greens. a compromise supported by such a large majority in a parliament is a normal democratic process. we should guard against the insult that this house has been hypnotized by the chemical industry. we liberals have been campaigning for a workable reach. our main demand is a system which, without neglecting the objectives of environmental and consumer protection, will considerably reduce the costs for businesses, especially small businesses, and avoid unnecessary red tape. our position, which was stigmatised as being pro-industry a year ago, is now consensus: the introduction of exposure categories, substantial relaxations in the low-tonnage sector, exemptions for research and osor. but political success in registering must not be sacrificed for the other core element of reach, the authorisation of chemicals. reach does not just concern the chemical industry - and i say this very clearly now, with reference to mr nassauer, who always emphasizes this very clearly - but all industries which further process chemical substances. the liberal group has again put forward the sensible proposal for approval by the committee on industry. in order to ensure legal certainty and planning certainty, firms need clear criteria. substitution of hazardous substances should only be undertaken where safe alternatives are available and scientifically justified. in addition, the temporary authorisation of chemicals must be flexible and take into account industry-specific product cycles.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i thank all those who have spoken in what has been an interesting and informative exchange of views. it must be said that some of the points made today have not yet been discussed by the council, but i assure parliament that they will be. let me respond to as many of the points raised as i can. of course the council agrees that we need transparent and effective agencies. it is important to ensure coherence, good governance, credibility and cost efficiency. we can see the advantage in any framework of retaining flexibility and not putting in place excessively rigid guidelines. i can also assure parliament – in case there is any doubt about it – that the council will return to this issue when it has fully reflected on the positions of both parliament and the commission. the council has noted the commission’s proposal for a legally binding instrument for a horizontal framework for regulatory agencies. the council believes that the current commission proposal presents certain legal problems and is studying it carefully. what should such a framework cover? the council believes that any framework should address key issues in the creation, operation and supervision of regulatory agencies. in particular, it is important, as i have said, to ensure coherence, transparency, good governance, credibility and cost efficiency. how should decisions be taken to set up such an agency? we believe agencies have a crucial role to play, but the council agrees with parliament that when a decision is taken to create an agency it has to be justified on the basis of an external, cost-benefit assessment, and we hope to work with parliament in getting a satisfactory solution to this issue.
member of the commission. mr president, i would first like to say that the commission shares the european parliament's sense of urgency and that we fully share the concerns expressed by the various speakers. the commission considers that an interinstitutional agreement is undoubtedly the most appropriate form of framework. only the interinstitutional agreement makes it possible to involve parliament in the definition of a common framework on an equal footing with the commission and the council. the generally recognized need for a framework obviously means that this project, which was proposed by the commission eight months ago, should not be left unanswered. the commission urges its institutional partners to start work now so that the tripartite negotiations can begin as soon as possible. the essential thing is to examine the content of a possible agreement between the three institutions. once the contents of the instrument are defined, it will be easier to determine its shape.
the next item is question time (b6-0339/2005). we are dealing with a number of questions to the commission. part two
i can only tell you that it is the rule in this house that the commission decides which commissioner answers the question. that is why this has come up in the third part of question time.
perhaps it is indeed possible to clarify this in this way. i can only give you the same answer as i gave to mr martin.
member of the commission. the level of political dialogue we have reached with the congolese authorities would allow us, if necessary, to intervene and certainly to persuade them to change course. as far as freedom of the press is concerned, i do not know whether you have been given the opportunity to follow the congolese press on the spot. if you want, i can get you a number of newspapers, even all the newspapers that come out daily in kinshasa and other cities. i must tell you that the congolese press is characterized, as a whole, by freedom of speech, freedom to make accusations in all directions - which sometimes, incidentally, i happen to make the cost - that we meet in few democracies. so if there is one area where there has really been very substantial progress, it is in the area of press freedom, although there are many other things to complain about, particularly about governance. for journalists, in kinshasa and elsewhere, it is total freedom of speech. i have to say, we don't measure our words. we are accusing absolutely without any foundation and so, i'm not saying that all the press is like that, but i can tell you that the press can go wild on anyone, whether it's on the president or other personalities. so, as far as freedom of the press in the congo is concerned, i think it's not a problem. there are other problems, huge problems, but quite honestly, i do not think there are any problems at all on this point. as far as the opposition is concerned, i must say that i personally do not know of any opposition member who has been prevented from taking part in elections or, for example, from forming a political party, if they meet the criteria. i don't think it was. now, what i'm saying here is not to be taken as if everything is perfect. you just have to measure the distance traveled. i have been following the congo problem for many years, in particular in my other capacity, and i must admit that never in recent years have we been so close to having the chance to lead this country to democratic and free elections and thereby bring stability to it. i hope with all my heart that the constitution will be ratified by the end of december and that elections will be held in march or april, in order to meet the deadline. i didn't say i was falling into a happy optimism. i'm simply saying that we have never been so close to the minimum conditions to re-establish stability in the congo. and it is true that i am very committed to this issue because i consider that stability in the drc would obviously be an extremely strong element for stability in the whole region. it is important to realize that central africa is almost the size of a continent. when we see the number of deaths since 1994, when we see, i think, the progress made in rwanda, the elections which allowed for a smooth turnaround in burundi - which was quite unexpected - when i see, for example, the first gestures and actions of president el nkurunziza in burundi, for example, i hope that in the congo, in a few months, we will be able to record the same type of development.
questions nos 43 to 45 will be answered in writing. for unanswered questions, see the annex 'question time'. questions to mr mandelson
member of the commission. the honourable member has put the finger on an important issue. she should not assume that anti-dumping duties will be levied on such sportswear producers. i have yet to satisfy myself that there is a direct community competitor producing such sportswear. therefore it is not yet clear to me as to what community interest in that segment of the sector is being harmed. however, the investigation continues. i suspect that shortly we will be able to reach a view about the particular sector to which she refers.
questions nos 49 to 53 will be answered in writing. for unanswered questions, see the annex 'question time'. questions to mr spidla
member of the commission. of course, the existing means already enable the commission to respond to some sudden changes. i will give you an example of the recent rover case, which has resulted in the loss of 5,000 jobs in a short period of time. the european commission has used the structural funds to intervene, and this intervention is generally considered successful. however, this case was unusual in that it involved one factory in one country. if it is a problem that affects several countries, is networked and is a change of a large system, as recently happened with electrolux, there are not enough effective tools now, so the idea of the fund is to deal with the consequences of globalisation and restructuring. its objective is not to protect non-competitive businesses but to enable people affected by the restructuring to find a new basis for their lives. let me use a metaphor: "our goal is not to save a ship that is already sinking hopelessly, but to save the crew and transfer them to another ship or to the mainland so that they can continue living". the activities supported by the fund shall be investments in human capital and continuing education, the conclusion of employment contracts and innovation partnerships at national, regional and municipal level, the development of systems and tools to anticipate social and economic change, the improvement of the adaptability of workers and businesses affected by restructuring, and the strengthening of the administrative capacity and performance of all stakeholders, for example by training change managers. mechanisms already in place in the current member states, such as those used for the european social fund, can be used to implement the funds.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the accession treaties, the transitional period 2 + 3 + 2 was also formulated. the concept of those transitional periods, that is to say the moments when it is necessary to verify whether those transitional periods make sense, can be interpreted as an interest, when the accession agreements are signed, in bringing to an end transitional periods which make it impossible to apply the full freedom of movement for workers in the shortest possible time. the commission is currently required to present a report assessing the consequences of the transitional periods in the first phase of those two years. the commission aims to produce a credible report, which is methodologically sound and takes account of all the circumstances, including the fact that some countries are neighbours of the new accession countries. i must say that this is a work which i attach particular importance to, because it is a report which must become the authority for decision making in such a sensitive matter and at the same time the basis for further work and further evaluation in the period of the following three years, when, after that five-year transitional period, decisions will again be taken under the treaty with a far less degree of freedom than in the two-year period. it is in our interest, almost in our absolute interest, to take into account all the relevant factors that are associated with this sensitive matter, including the geographical location of individual countries.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner very much for his comments and also for the fact that he has indicated that he wants to see a balanced report. i would like to ask you why the public statements by you and your house have already given the signal of pre-determination and why they want to establish free movement so quickly. we all share the objective of free movement, and it is a fundamental principle of the european union, to which we are committed. it is a question of taking seriously the concerns of all those affected. so again, the question is: why did you make this determination?
member of the commission. the experience of the uk, ireland and sweden is undoubtedly an important source for describing the consequences of any abolition or non-application of transitional periods and should be carefully evaluated, i.e. certain studies should be used where appropriate.
as the time allotted for question time has been used up, questions nos 56 to 90 will be answered in writing. for unanswered questions, see the annex 'question time'. the question is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 8.15 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
member of the commission. mr president, a few weeks ago, i reported to you on the commission’s findings concerning bulgaria and romania. today, i am glad to present to you the commission’s views on enlargement strategy as a whole, on the candidate countries turkey and croatia, and on the potential candidates of the western balkans. enlargement is one of the eu’s most powerful policy tools: it exemplifies the eu’s ‘soft power’, or the power of transformation, which has helped to transform countries to stable democracies and more prosperous societies, with higher levels of economic development and social welfare. it remains in europe’s and our citizens’ fundamental interest to continue a carefully managed accession process. the trademark of the barroso commission’s strategy on enlargement is consolidation. we have to be cautious about taking on any new commitments, but, at the same time, we must stand by the commitments that we have made, once the countries fulfil the strict conditions for accession. conditionality is the key to our transformative power, but it is a two-way street: conditionality only works if the countries can believe in the eu’s commitment to their eventual membership. moreover, we have to communicate more effectively the objectives and challenges of the accession process and how we deal with the countries. broad public support is essential for a sustainable enlargement policy, now more than ever. it is also up to the member states in particular to make the case for and defend the policies they have agreed unanimously. the commission certainly does its part, and i am well aware of the very significant efforts of the european parliament and of many of you back home. with turkey and croatia, we started screening the chapters for accession negotiations some three weeks ago. the progress reports analyse where the countries stand, and the accession partnerships set both short-term and medium-term goals to address the problems identified. it is a mixed picture, frankly. in turkey, bold and significant reforms that enhance the rule of law and human rights have now entered into force, but at the same time their implementation remains uneven. the report underlines that turkey must make further serious efforts in freedom of expression, women’s rights, religious freedoms, trade union rights, cultural rights and the fight against torture and ill-treatment, where a zero-tolerance policy must be applied in practice. the accession partnership for turkey addresses these issues among the priorities for action in the short term. on a positive note, the commission now recognises turkey as a functioning market economy, as long as stabilisation and reform measures are firmly maintained. croatia is doing well in transposing eu legislation, but it still needs to make important efforts to reform the judicial system, to fight corruption, to improve the situation of minorities and to facilitate refugees’ return, as well as to strengthen the administrative structures for the enforcement of the acquis communautaire. needless to say, croatia must also maintain full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia so that the remaining fugitive is finally brought to justice; we shall monitor this commitment very closely. the commission’s opinion on the application of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia for eu membership is an objective and fair assessment. only a few years after being on the brink of civil war, the country has achieved remarkable political stability and democratic development, particularly thanks to the implementation of the ohrid framework agreement. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is currently the only functioning multi-ethnic state in the western balkans, and thus a case in point that such a multi-ethnic model can really work. for these reasons, the commission can recommend the status of candidate country for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia; however, the country is not ready to start accession negotiations yet. candidate status for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia would be an important political signal for the whole region. at the same time, the commission is not rushing ahead to recommend accession negotiations before the country is ready. we will assess the situation regularly and will recommend opening negotiations only once a sufficient level of compliance with the copenhagen criteria is reached. as regards albania, serbia and montenegro, bosnia and herzegovina, the time has come to anchor our relationship more strongly by negotiating a stabilisation and association agreement with each of these countries. with albania, we should be able to do so in the near future. for the other two countries, i expect that we may do so towards the end of 2006, if they make serious progress on reform. a stabilisation and association agreement is the first stepping stone towards the european union, and it needs to be implemented rigorously before any further steps can be envisaged. following the objective report and recommendation of the un standards envoy mr eide, the talks on the future status of kosovo are about to begin. the commission fully supports the efforts of the un status envoy, president ahtisaari, to prepare a balanced and sustainable settlement in kosovo, and we shall of course work closely with him. our common goal must be a status with standards; it is of paramount importance that the rights of minorities and the protection of cultural and historical sites are ensured in order to achieve a sustainable settlement that facilitates the stability of the whole region. to this effect, i shall soon present a joint paper on the eu’s policy on kosovo with mr solana. we also need to facilitate the status process with appropriate financial resources, and the commission asks parliament to work closely with it on that matter; i count on your support for this very important issue for the security and stability of europe. each and every country in the western balkans is taking a step forward towards the european union this autumn. thus we send a clear message that the eu remains committed to their mid- or long-term perspective of eu membership, once each and every country meets our strict conditions. these are indeed two sides of the same coin: the prospect of eu accession comes closer step-by-step in response to real progress in fulfilling the eu’s conditions and criteria. the commission remains committed to the eu perspective on the western balkans. i am sure that i can count on your support in this very important endeavour. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the commission for the commitment it has shown in going into detail and trying to get things moving, and many countries for the way they are trying to meet the criteria. however, it must be clear that the conditions are met and not just postponed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that after the debates on 3 october the commission will come forward with a proposal soon. i agree with the commissioner: enlargement is one of the most successful foreign policy strategies of the european union, because it has led to stability and to a greater spread of democracy and the rule of law in europe. the european perspective is an important tool to enable countries to implement internal reforms, which they otherwise probably for domestic policy reasonsmost often cannot. but i think it should be clear that after the enlargement of the european union to ten countries and, in the near future, possibly to two more, it also needs a period of consolidation, as any company needs a period of consolidation after periods of growth. it is a question of restoring the balance between deepening and enlargement, of making clear once again how we will ensure the ability to act in the enlarged european union and put the question of political unity at the forefront, or whether we will allow the union to sink into a free trade area. i think that this report, the strategy report, does not make it clear what an overall strategy should look like, what the internal shape and external boundaries of this europe should be in the future, which of course cannot be defined in detail in such a report, because of course this is always a fluid process. but to have a picture of this, i think it is now time to move forward, not to remain in the progression of individual cases which then lead to the existence of automata which endanger the european union. this includes considering whether it is not sensible to find another option for an interim period between full membership and the neighbourhood policy, which would give the states the opportunity to have a european perspective for their development, while at the same time not destroying the european union's capacity for development - something like the european economic area once was. i am sorry to say that the commission is too particular about these initiatives and does not try to achieve the big picture.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i congratulate you, commissioner, on the conclusions you have drawn from the progress reports of the western balkan countries. you have thus followed the line of parliament and you are helping europe to stand by the decisions taken so far, thereby also documenting reliability and continuity. i think this is all the more important at a time when, unfortunately, there is a lot of talk about a european crisis and a limit to the capacity to absorb. europe failed to manage the crisis in the former yugoslavia in the early 1990s; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. let me give you a few specific suggestions. please draw conclusions from the enlargement rounds so far. support the development of civil society through education and democratisation programmes. prepare citizens better than before for the europeanisation of the world. involve them from the start. it is good that you are paying special attention to the protection and integration of minorities. but to ensure that it is also a longterm objective, we still need instruments so that the eu can continue to have influence and control after accession. and apply immediately, from the start of the association, the instruments which make local politicians real actors and which have proved to be efficient and effective. i would remind you of the decision of parliament to have all the governments in the region draw up national development plans.
the commission has already done so. in principle, what the commission has put forward is welcome, and the commission's enlargement strategy for the western balkans is in order. it is gratifying that the commission has now formally accepted a medium-term accession perspective for the western balkans. the prospect of eu accession is of great importance for the further development of the region, because it is the only way to bring lasting peace to this historically very troubled part of europe. but at the same time our group, the epp group, makes a clear call on the commission to examine each candidate country in the western balkans individually and point by point as to its accession capacity before giving binding dates for the start of accession negotiations and timetables for accession. the commission must not make the mistake it made with romania and bulgaria, and even more so with turkey, of giving a date too early without fully meeting the criteria, for the so-called western balkans. this would further reduce the acceptance of further accessions by the european public and at the same time overwhelm the reform capacity of the balkan countries. we cannot afford to do that in this very unstable region, which until recently was still partly ravaged by civil war. as you yourself have said, considerable progress has been made in the reform process. the commission's view that croatia and soon macedonia, which have made the most progress and have therefore already been granted candidate status, or will be granted in the case of macedonia, is correct. this is also an incentive for the neighbouring countries, which are lagging behind these countries in their approach to the eu for very different reasons. each of these countries has its own destiny to face. albania: the decades of communism in the high-security strait of an enver hoxha; bosnia and herzegovina: the terrible years of expulsion, murder and war, and the burden of the monster of the dayton agreement, which ended the war but did not provide a platform for good governance and coexistence; the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations. the european union is not prepared to accept the new situation in the balkans, and we are not prepared to accept the new situation in the balkans. i am pleased that the commissioner has announced an initiative and a strategy of the commission. the western balkans and the enlargement strategy in this region are the litmus test of our european policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three new member states are likely to join this decade: croatia, romania and bulgaria. croatia has made a tremendous amount of preparatory work and, with goodwill on both sides, these accession negotiations could become the fastest in the history of enlargement. romania and bulgaria still need to do extensive follow-up work in two areas: the area of justice and, especially as regards romania, the area of minorities. we will have to decide in the spring on the final date of accession in a critical but objective and open way. turkey is and will remain a non-european country for which we are seeking a privileged partnership, but it too needs to meet the criteria. i would ask you, commissioner, to comment on the religious law, because we have the distinct impression that the mainly christian minorities in turkey continue to be subject to massive discrimination. as far as south-eastern europe is concerned, we have three problems to solve: firstly, the democratization of serbia; secondly, the reform of bosnia-herzegovina in the sense of constitutional and treaty reform; and thirdly, the status of kosovo, up to independence. i am very sympathetic to the initiative of the slovenian president, mr pahor. i think it's headed in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do we mean by the eu only a group of nation states which uses the prospect of enlargement as a foreign policy instrument to stabilise neighbouring nation states, or do we really want a strong, active, federal europe capable of asserting itself worldwide? i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect. but we need a very clear phase of consolidation, and we need - and i think this is very important, commissioner - a clear picture of the institutional foundations and the limits that this european union should have in the future. we have avoided this debate so far.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we can only congratulate the rapporteur, mrs christine de veyrac, on this wonderful achievement of reaching a joint solution to these questions with the council and parliament in such a short time. i think you have set a great example of how parliament, the commission and the council can act quickly in situations like this, where the safety of passengers seems to be at risk. i hope, mr president-in-office, that you can guarantee us that the council will give its final approval by december at the latest, so that we can put this regulation into effect at the turn of the year. it is particularly important that we can present the added value of our work in european legislation, and here the added value is clearly visible. if we agree on common european blacklists, will it not be the case that the citizens feel that germany is demanding a ban on take-offs and landings, and france is not imposing a ban on take-offs and landings? where is the common security? when we have joint blacklists, we make it clear to our citizens that we are working together to protect them. our action is therefore an excellent example of european added value. it is not just that we actually impose take-off and landing bans, but the second aspect is just as important, namely that we inform citizens about what happens if the airline, after booking, actually intends to use an aircraft that is on the blacklist. the citizens must be informed and given the opportunity to react. the proposals that he can resign or request a rebooking if he receives a full refund of the purchase price show that we are very flexible in our approach to the interests of the citizens. that's a great result. mr president, we have different views on the extension of the powers of the european aviation safety agency, but we will debate this when the commission's paper is debated. this air traffic control agency is helping us all to have a common perspective. i would like to see the example of this rapid legislation, with a great rapporteur, mrs de veyrac, followed in the evans report, so that we can act just as quickly and give citizens a clear message on the issue of the treatment and care of passengers with reduced mobility.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. flying in europe is safe and should remain so in the future, despite high growth rates in air transport. we are taking this into account today with the regulation which is being urged by all the political parties. i thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. a european blacklist, drawn up on the basis of common criteria, will prevent confusion in decision-making on safety-related matters, as we have seen in the onur air case. i am sure that publication will put a lot of pressure on the airlines concerned, which do not comply with international safety standards, and on the travel agencies which have worked with such airlines in the past. because publication of the information will inevitably lead to a loss of image and probably bankruptcy of such an airline. so we will have a significant increase in security. the obligation to inform passengers of the identity of the operating company, where this has not yet been done, is a significant strengthening of passenger rights. we could counter the fear of small travel agencies of being overburdened with information by distinguishing between safety-relevant information and information about switching to another, safer airline, and by treating this information with different urgency. i welcome the extension of the competence of easa to support airlines in third countries with safety problems, which is being prepared by commissioner barrot. if we want that, then we must of course also provide a little more money.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the reports i am presenting tonight concern the financing of the dismantling of nuclear power stations in general and in a specific case. i very much regret that we are discussing this subject late at night, because in fact the matter is so thorough and so serious that i wish i had all the daylight and full attention on the problem that we currently have in the debate here only on the subject of reach. the commission has this year presented us with a first communication on the preparation for financing the dismantling and disposal of nuclear installations in the member states where nuclear power stations are in operation. this communication is, to say the least, incomplete. the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the nuclear industry is not left to its own devices. the commission's communication shows me how little the polluter pays principle has applied to the nuclear industry in europe so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in france, the leading nuclear power in the european union, the court of auditors expects that the taxpayer will one day have to pay for the burden of edf, the nuclear industry. in england, the state - the taxpayer - has taken over the initial funding for the disposal fund: 1.5 billion euros, if we are to use the commission's estimates. and it may not have been the last time that the british nuclear industry has taken the pocket of the citizen. the cost of dismantling a nuclear power plant is estimated at between eur 200 million and eur 1 billion. so you can imagine what's coming. to illustrate the financial dimension of the whole problem, there are 149 nuclear power stations in operation in europe today, and given their age and technical condition, the commission estimates that 50 to 60 of these reactors will have to be decommissioned in the next 20 years. in most cases, there is not enough provision for dismantling and disposal, or none at all. however, when and how the dismantling of a nuclear power station begins after shutdown, how the disposal is organized, even after the actual shutdown, is of central importance for the prevention of radioactive contamination of the environment, the local population or the workers who are responsible for the dismantling. the decision on how and when to reduce emissions must, in my view - and i agree with those who want to make responsible environmental policy - be based solely on safety, and safety must not be subordinated to the financial interests of the nuclear industry. the whole thing is going to be very expensive, and all this money, which is not available at the moment, has to be available not just at a certain time, but possibly for many decades. in view of the bankruptcies and bankruptcies in business and industry, in view of the growing hunger of international hedge funds for european companies as well, i can only encourage the commission to encourage the member states to finally make the nuclear industry financially manage the burdens it produces. i think that funds must be set up for this. for example, in germany today we can assume that 30 billion euros were actually set aside by the nuclear industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not unusual for companies to buy up other energy companies, but it is also common to buy up in the water sector or in telecommunications - in fact in all sectors with a network character. money has to work, i always hear when we argue about it. but even in germany, no one can guarantee me at the moment that the billions we will need in 2030, 2040 or 2050 will actually be available. i believe that we must work to ensure that the means of disposal are available and that the use of these means of provision, which were once created for the purpose of provision, and which have been collected from electricity customers, in a way that distorts the market and distorts competition, must be stopped. the compromise text which i am presenting today in the chamber with my own-initiative report and which we shall be voting on tomorrow is intended to encourage the commission to take action against the abuses in the field of waste disposal. i am still convinced that national responsibility for nuclear waste is right. i am equally convinced that there are no uniform, strict criteria for the setting up of funds by companies in europe. the polluter pays principle must be enforced in my view. the financial provision for dismantling and disposal must also be guided by the highest safety standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear safety of the community is not compromised by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty. it is a pity that, although we have already agreed in committee on the direction that the disposal reserves should take, we have not been able to agree in detail on a set of criteria which we can support the commission in its hopefully committed approach, as i see it. if you still want to do that, ladies and gentlemen, then support the amendments tabled by my group to make what i have just proposed possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. due to safety deficiencies that cannot be remedied by technical upgrades, the decision was taken to close down bohunice. the european union's phare programme has already paid 240 million euro of eu funds to slovakia in connection with the closure of bohunice by 2006. this money is intended to help ensure security around bohunice and also to provide financial compensation for the premature closure. the commission is now proposing a further eur 237 million for decommissioning and replacement measures after this initial payment. i think this proposal is appropriate in the light of what i know about the costs of decommissioning and disposal. i am opposed to the proposed increase in appropriations, but there are initiatives on the left and right of this house to raise it to 400 million euros. false promises will not help us to accept european policy or to ensure security in bohunice. i will make sure that the funds which the commission considers necessary are made available. i shall also be advocating this in the discussions on the financial perspective and in the budgetary debates of the coming periods. but i will also make sure that the use of these funds, if we can pay for them - that still depends on the financial perspective - actually benefits the security of citizens in slovakia and in the eu. i will strongly oppose the use of this money by companies such as slovenské elektrárne or enel in italy to build new nuclear power stations. as rapporteur and as an opponent of nuclear energy, i would have liked to have recommended that you support amendment no 18 by the epp group, which also supported the commission's proposal on the level of appropriations. unfortunately, that request has been withdrawn. i therefore recommend that if you want to act realistically and honestly in slovakia, you vote against amendment no 12 tomorrow and work to ensure that the sensible proposal put forward by commissioner piebalgs is implemented.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. my group will also support the measures presented here by the council and the commission to give the iraqis a chance of a peaceful and democratic future. i would like to address a specific sentence by lord bach. lord bach said: 'we europeans want to take a leading role in the question of democracy and human rights in iraq.' lord bach, we must also have the courage and the strength to ensure that our nato partners do not repeatedly violate international law and must give assurances in this regard. what is the lesson of abu ghraib and guantanamo? the prisoners in guantanamo have no rights, no legal protection to this day. the situation is dramatic. can we really be shocked by the fact that iraqi officials are also building secret prisons? where is the democratic example of the international community and the eu? it is only cynical that rumsfeld is going to issue a new regulation on torture, which says that in future dogs may no longer be used as a means of torture and interrogation. the geneva convention is not respected. these are the points on which i expect explanations. do you know what white phosphorus is? do you know what white phosphorus, which the americans - as they have now admitted - used in falluja, does? it is an arson, it is a fire against people, and there is no medicine, no water to put out this fire again. this is an extermination that violates international law. these measures have been taken. lord bach, if you spend nine and a half minutes here talking about the positive aspects, you will have no power of persuasion unless you demand that the eu, the council - and especially the british council - should work to get the americans to sign the international convention so that we can regain our international credibility. otherwise all the instruments we want to support with all our might will not work. that is why i am asking you to ensure that not only an investigation is carried out, but that the americans sign the international convention which clearly prohibits the use of white phosphorus under international law. otherwise we will not be able to actively support peace in iraq.
the next item is the joint debate on the statements by the council and the commission on climate change and the report by mr anders wijkman, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the strategy for successfully tackling global climate change [2005/2049 (ini) ] (a6-0312/2005).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the council presidency has made us wait for 10 or 15 minutes at the beginning of the debate. i would have liked to have at least had an explanation and an apology. maybe we can make up for that. i would like to thank anders wijkman for his dedicated work. it was not an easy task, and it is certainly no secret that there were discussions in the epp group, but we have resolved them satisfactorily. it is a good report and i would like to draw attention to one particular aspect. we have had the decision on a new, large coalition in germany since monday. the coalition agreement has rightly been criticised in many quarters: there are some compromises that not everyone can support. the environment, energy and climate change chapters, however, are quite visible. i think that will also help us in europe. many points in the coalition agreement are identical to what the environment committee proposes in the wijkman report, and this is an encouragement for the commission to continue its path with full commitment, for example, in air traffic and in the objectives. in germany, we want to give renewable energy a new priority in the field of heat in the grand coalition and also in the motions for the wijkman report before us. we can save a lot of co2 with a little money here, and that is why the commission wanted to put forward a proposal for a directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i agree with cristina gutiérrez that the climate problem cannot be solved without nuclear energy. i would like to stress, however, that the report must have a large, convincing majority, and i would like to end by stressing what anders wijkman said, namely that it is also a security problem. there's a study by the pentagon that says that in the long run, climate change poses a greater threat to humanity than international terrorism. this should make it clear to everyone: it is time to act!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i take this opportunity to pick up where my predecessor left off. after visiting the united kingdom last week, i must say that i am very irritated that the climate debate is being led by tony blair and others to the conclusion that the increased use of nuclear energy, the so-called clean nuclear energy, is a better way to achieve climate objectives. i want to clear up a misconception here. i want to know what you think of clean nuclear power in england at the moment. are you talking about the particularly dirty uranium mining? are you talking about the particularly dirty enrichment of fuel? are you talking about the very difficult and environmentally very damaging conversion of uranium hexafluoride? when you talk about clean nuclear energy, do you mean the production of fuel cells in russia? have you ever discussed in england how much waste you will dispose of, when, where and at what cost? how do you assess the risks and dangers of reprocessing? you have a lot of experience in windscale of how recycling actually affects the environment and people. i am very surprised that the british, who have actually abandoned nuclear energy for economic reasons, are now pushing this crazy discussion of 'climate protection through increased use of nuclear energy'. let's look at this worldwide. we would have to shut down hundreds, thousands of nuclear reactors if we really wanted to make an efficient contribution to climate protection through nuclear energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be appropriate to have reprocessing plants all over the world, because the uranium reserves would not be sufficient for such a scale of nuclear energy development. such an expansion in the context of the discussion on terrorism, on proliferation threats is irresponsible. it is much more difficult to tackle the energy problems through energy efficiency, through savings, through a different approach. but let us now start with a consistent approach and not go back to a technology which is already the technology of the last century and whose legacy we have not even managed to control.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to comment on this vote. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think the decision being taken here is completely irresponsible. i think it is more appropriate to join the commission and ask you to vote against my own report. i shall in any case withdraw my signature from this report because i believe that unpaid cheques cannot buy acceptance of european policy or security in nuclear energy. ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry, but i think you have acted very badly in voting for these false promises by a majority. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a problem with speech recognition. in the german version it is "two seats". this is bullshit. the treaty provides for parliament to have only one seat, in strasbourg. it's been decided a long time ago. in the english version, it's called "double location". the second location is brussels; we can abolish them, but then the language must be correct. so i ask you to compare the two versions.
in writing. the eu's support for nuclear power, as laid down in the euratom treaty, must be discontinued. if, on an exceptional occasion, the eu promotes the decommissioning of nuclear power plants to protect people and the environment, as in the case of the slovak bohunice v1 reactor, this is worthy of support, even if the distinction between the "good" reactors in the west and the "dangerous" in eastern europe by the eu commission is untenable. the initial high level of support is useful for a targeted start to decommissioning, as the slovak republic has only accumulated eur 320 million through a fund. the aid is in line with the commitments entered into in the context of slovakia's accession. without eu support, the continued operation of the bohunice v1 reactors is likely to pose significant safety risks. in addition, without eu funding, it may not be possible to ensure that immediate decommissioning measures are taken to protect people and the environment. the use of eu funds is, however, to be limited to the decommissioning of the bohunice v1 reactors and the related measures. the commission proposal should be supplemented in this sense by article 2 which sets out eu priority objectives, such as high safety standards for decommissioning and the achievement of the climate change objective through the promotion of renewable energy, by specifying the use of funds.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the minutes record a debate between mrs gröner and myself on the anti-abortion exhibition by mr giertych. the president-in-office had said that there would be no censorship. the exhibition has since been removed, so censorship has been applied. i would point out that there is also an anti-reach exhibition here in the house, showing the president of the commission poisoning a child. i find this - unlike the exhibition by my colleague giertych - to be controversial indeed. if you use "controversial" as an excuse, then you have to dismantle both exhibits. but i think that we should not dismantle anything, we should discuss, not censor.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! the president of the european council was here the day before hampton court, not the british prime minister. he is also british prime minister, but as british prime minister he is president of the european council. it was a good sign that tony blair was here the day before hampton court. i thought that was the right order: first to parliament, then to the heads of state and government. i also very much welcome the fact that our president has been in hampton court all this time. mr president-in-office of the council, i would recommend that you invite the president of the european parliament to the brussels summit for the entire time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have mentioned the quality of the members present here with a wonderful british understatement. i think it is wonderful that you are indirectly expressing a legitimate criticism: there could be more of us here. but you mentioned quality, and that shows what a master of parliamentarism you are in britain. but now i would like to add a little water to the wine: you spoke of visits by ministers, 48 times a minister has been to the european institutions. i think that is great, and it will certainly increase to 60 because we have six weeks left, but in the end it is crucial that the quantity of ministers in the british presidency should match the quality, and we hope that this will be the case by the end of december this year. you said europe was far from its citizens. that's true, we need to think about how we can improve this together. but this also applies to national policy. we must therefore make an equal effort at national and european level to build confidence in the policy as a whole. i think - and this was probably the success of hampton court - that, if you look at it from the outside, there was a new trust between the actors. as chairman of a group of meps from all 25 member states and 45 national parties, i know from experience that in such a difficult situation of interests - which also exists in the other groups, in parliament as a whole, and in governments - problems can only be overcome if there is trust. if there is no trust, there are no political solutions. we are asking the heads of state or government to do their part to build confidence in the other members of the european council. the future of europe was discussed, the commission paper was discussed, globalisation was discussed. i don't want to go through all this again. but the crucial thing is that we accept globalisation on the one hand, that we are one world and are becoming more and more one world, which is the core of globalisation, at its core. but on the other hand, we are not just tolerating it, we are shaping it, that is, we are shaping the spillover, the negative effects of globalization, through political action. i think that's our job. i should now like to say something about the most important area to be decided on, and on which you have also led a debate, albeit on the margins. the president of parliament has already mentioned it: it is the financial perspective. i would advise you, if you allow it and if you do not, i would also advise you to find a solution in the financial perspective. the united kingdom has always been in favour of enlargement, and here are colleagues from the countries which joined the european union on 1 may 2004, even though it has not always followed our common path on institutional matters. if you fail to achieve the financial perspective, you will disappoint the former communist countries which joined on 1 may 2004. the council has already taken a decision on the matter. but you - and the president of the european council - must also have the courage to draw a clear line on the british rebate. you spoke of a fundamental change. i think you meant agricultural policy. but we also need a fundamental change in the way the individual member states contribute, and that is something the united kingdom can do a great deal of during your presidency. the agricultural policy is decided until 2013. but if there is a solution to the british contribution, if we are to arrive at a financial perspective, then we must also be sure that we are prepared, at least in the sense of a binding declaration of intent, to consider at some point a further reform of the agricultural policy. mr president-in-office, when you speak about the financial perspective and, hopefully, when you take decisions - and i say this to the commission - remember that you do not decide this alone in the council! the european parliament is part of the budgetary authority and the european parliament has equal voting rights. that means: ensure that the european parliament is fully involved! we represent, like you, the citizens of europe, and if we show good will together, if we have trust together, then it will also be possible to solve the problems. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president-in-office, if i may, the hampton court summit was the greatest embarrassment a presidency has ever had to face. instead of moving forward on the urgent problems of the financial perspective and the constitutional debate, these items were removed from the agenda. the summit did not even live up to the theme of 'social europe'. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the future of the european social fund, but it is hoping that the council will take a decision on the future of the european social fund. the commission's proposals, mr straw, are petty statecraft and do not advance social europe. instead of action, there were ideas. instead of responding to globalization with proactive measures, you have responded with reactive measures, like this idea of the anti-shock fund. the aim must not be to develop a europe that is backward, but a europe that is able to move forward.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, it is an honour to conclude this debate today on the discussions that took place at hampton court. it is a particular pleasure for me to be speaking alongside president barroso. the debate following the departure of foreign secretary jack straw was taken forward by mr pistelli, who spoke of the european union being like a family. clearly, on the basis of our brief discussion this afternoon, it is a family within which, like any other family, there can be disagreements from time to time. but i certainly concur with his view that there are challenges that we face in the weeks ahead. a rather less lofty point was then made by mr hudghton. as a fellow scottish representative, a member of parliament representing a scottish seat, i would happily spend all day debating with him why backward-looking nineteenth century nationalism offers no future to any part of scotland, nor to any group within scotland. but i, unlike him, am aware that i speak today for the presidency of the european union rather than simply rehearsing domestic political disputes between our parties. mrs bobošíková spoke of the opportunities provided by globalisation. with that i certainly concur; that was a central focus of much of the constructive and useful discussion that took place at hampton court. mrs sudre emphasised the need for agreement on future financing by the end of december. as the foreign secretary made clear, we are working towards that aim. indeed, a number of other speakers addressed this continuing issue of the importance of reaching agreement. i will say a word about that in a moment. mr zingaretti generously acknowledged the importance of turkish accession. for that i am grateful. it reflects the distinctive approach taken by jack straw as the foreign secretary, whereby – somewhat similar to future financing – questions were raised as to the strategy the presidency was adopting. i am glad to say that on the occasion of 3 october we secured the outcome for which so many of us had worked for so long: seeing the accession talks beginning both with turkey and croatia. i hope that we achieve a similar outcome in relation to future financing. mr davies, who has now left the chamber, again emphasised the importance of future financing. on the basis of the british motivation and indeed the british capacity to deliver the deal, what matters is not the will of one country – of the presidency – but the willingness of all member states to work together to find a consensus. if what mattered was simply the motivation of the presidency, we would have seen agreement reached in june rather a situation in which five member states were unable to accept the luxembourg proposals. mr karas questioned the importance of enlargement in the face of enduring significant competitive challenges that we face, such as unemployment. surely the very point that he makes about enduring unemployment and the need for us to address those challenges, makes the case for hampton court. it is necessary for europe to have a clearer sense as to its future direction before we would be able to try and secure the consensus we want on the basis of the financing of the european union. mr tabajdi offered a qualified welcome to particular aspects of the work programme that was agreed at hampton court and mr sonik quoted to me the earlier remarks of my ministerial colleague, lord bach. i am sorry to disappoint him: as regards future financing, there can be no guarantees that agreement can be reached. what i can guarantee is that the british presidency is earnest in our endeavours to try and reach that agreement, but critical days and critical discussions lie ahead. it is important for all the relevant parties to recognise how significant the progress reached since june – where disunity rather than unity was the hallmark of the conclusion of the discussions – will need to be. mr rouček said that he was content with the outcome of hampton court and argued for an honest, fair and well-balanced deal on future financing. with that i would have no disagreement. i disagree with many of the points that were raised by mr van orden, who has now left the chamber. he ranged very widely indeed while claiming to speak for the people of east anglia, before having his microphone switched off. suffice it to say that he did not have the chance during his speech to acknowledge the invaluable work that had been undertaken by the commission in the course of the british presidency on exactly that issue of better regulation. today i pay tribute to the personal commitment of president barroso and indeed to commissioner verheugen in driving forward this agenda during the british presidency. mrs gomes raised important challenging points in relation to human rights, democracy and development within africa. again, i would simply return to the progress that was made by european union development ministers back in june, when we effectively agreed to double the level of overseas direct assistance provided by member states from approximately usd 40 billion to usd 80 billion. i would re-emphasise the commitment reached at gleneagles between 6 and 8 july effectively to double the aid being provided to africa. i would reflect again on the very constructive and unified approach taken by european union member states at the millennium review summit which took place in september of this year. i should like to echo a point made earlier by mr davies, that those of us who are sincere and genuine in our commitment to help the developing world recognise that there is a continuing challenge that lies ahead of us in the remaining weeks of the british presidency, which is to try and have an ambitious and balanced outcome to the hong kong ministerial meeting that will take place in december. i can assure members that this remains a continuing priority of the british presidency.
president of the commission. mr president, to sum up, there will be a defining issue for the british presidency: to get an agreement on the financial perspectives. i think that message was very clearly transmitted to the british presidency today. i understand what the foreign secretary jack straw said before he left about other issues that were very important and that will have strategic consequences. precisely because of that, it is important to get an agreement on the financial perspectives, because this will be the first test for the enlarged europe. let us be frank. there are some people who believe that with 25 member states we cannot work and we cannot deliver. there are some people who believe that a greater europe will be a weaker europe. i know that is not the idea of the british presidency, i know that is not the idea of the commission. we believe in this greater europe we are now building. we believe it is a great achievement that we now have 25 free, democratic member states – as we have. however, we cannot do enlargement on the cheap. we need resources for this new europe that we are helping to consolidate. that is why it is crucially important to have an agreement on the financial perspectives, because if not, if we do not have that instrument for what people are asking of the european institutions, there will be, and i really believe this, a crisis of confidence that will be reinforced in europe. and this not only applies to the current situation in europe, but also to the future of europe, future accessions to europe, to our capability to build a europe. however, for a greater europe we need greater politics. pour une grande europe, il nous faut une grande politique. and that is the point. are we ready? are we able to do it? can we deliver? that is why i urge the british presidency to do everything in its power – and i well know the energy and commitment of your prime minister and indeed of all your officials – to get an agreement. of course everyone has to move: it is not only the responsibility of the british presidency. of course it is not. but i really believe the key to the problem, or it would be better to say the key to the solution, is in your hands. you can achieve that agreement, at least among member states. we came very close in the last formal european council: we can do it. it is crucially important and it is my duty and my responsibility, as president of the european commission – which has to represent the general european interest – to call on the responsibility of all leaders in europe to make the best efforts to achieve that compromise. let me tell you very frankly, president-in-office, from my contacts with all the member states – which, because of my responsibility, i have to keep on a daily basis, especially with the new member states – i know they look to you and to the role of your presidency with this expectation. in fact, everything that we have done so far has been, from my point of view, a great contribution for europe. as i said in my previous statement, i think that the hampton court summit was a good summit, it made a good contribution to that new, emerging consensus about a stronger, more modern europe. however, the test in the minds of the new member states, the test for a major proportion of the european public centres around whether we can really show that we are on the move on those concrete questions. that is the great challenge. so let us do our best, let us ask all the heads of state and government to be ready to compromise; let us ask the british presidency to do its very best. i believe it is possible. it is difficult but it is possible, and the real test for our leadership is to make possible that which is necessary and i believe we can do it. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i am delighted to be able to address the parliament in this important and timely debate on iran and i am delighted to be speaking alongside my good friend commissioner ferrero-waldner in this important discussion. during the last debate on this subject in this house on 12 october i used those same words in indicating that discussion on iran was timely. i now feel that this debate is perhaps even more timely than the debate on 12 october because international concern about iran’s policies remains high and i believe that iran is facing crucial choices about its future. it is right, therefore, that the european union should be active in shaping that debate. iran’s decisions about its relations with neighbouring countries can affect the security and prosperity of peoples well beyond the region of the middle east. it is important for the security of the region and beyond that iran now makes wise choices. as all members of this house will know, iran elected a new president in june of this year. i believe that the international community, and particularly the european union, must maintain its dialogue with iran’s new government. we have a responsibility to encourage those who now hold power to make choices that are in the best interests of that country and the region as a whole. as i said the last time i had the privilege of addressing this parliament, iran is a land of genuinely vast potential. it has a young, educated and entrepreneurial population. it has immense natural resources, in particular oil and minerals. i suggested that the combination of these factors should make for a vibrant economy and society in any country if its government can create a culture of opportunity based on the rule of law. today, more than ever, there is a real need to encourage the growth of such a culture within iran. i know that many honourable members of this house were, as i was, outraged by the recent remarks made by the president of iran about israel. these are deeply troubling statements. moreover, they have been made against the background of mounting concerns about iran’s nuclear and ballistic missile programmes, its human rights record and its commitment to countering terrorism. let me turn first to those specific comments. as you know, on 26 october, president ahmadinejad addressed a conference in tehran on the subject of a world without zionism. in his speech he is reported to have called for israel to be wiped from the map and said ‘the islamic world will not let its historic enemy live within its heartland’. the european union led the international response which was swift and, i am glad to say, unequivocal. the presidency statement issued on behalf of the european union heads of government meeting at hampton court on 27 october strongly condemned president ahmadinejad’s remarks. josep borrell said on behalf of this esteemed body that you were ‘deeply shocked, sickened and revolted by this statement’. he spoke of total condemnation by the leaders of your political groups. i know that hans-gert poettering, who will be speaking in a moment, also expressed his concern at these comments at that time. today in this debate we are being called upon to discuss these remarks and their implications. calls for violence and the destruction of any state are manifestly inconsistent with any claim to be a mature and responsible member of the international community. the presidency summoned iran’s chargé d’affaires in london to protest at these remarks, and many governments across our union of 25 nations did likewise in their national capacity. i welcome the swift response from the wider international community, including from governments within the middle east region itself. saeb erekat put it eloquently on behalf of the palestinian authority when he said he hoped president ahmadinejad will focus on adding palestine to the map rather than calling for israel to be wiped from the map. kofi annan, the united nations secretary-general, spoke for the world when he stated that israel is a long-standing member of the united nations, with the same rights and obligations as any other. under the united nations charter, iran, like other members of the organisation, has undertaken to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state. i hope that president ahmadinejad will recognise the damage that these remarks have caused to its standing in the international community and withdraw them unconditionally. his remarks are a further reminder of the imperative for iran to take steps to address international concerns about its intentions in relation to the nuclear programme. iran’s nuclear ambitions were discussed by european union foreign ministers when we met in brussels on 7 november. at that meeting the council reiterated its grave concern at iran’s resumption of activities at the uranium conversion facility at isfahan and urged iran to implement all the measures requested by the international atomic energy agency board. these include a reinstatement of the full suspension of all fuel cycle activities. the european union’s preferred approach remains the resumption of negotiations within the framework agreed in paris last november. the european union has urged iran to take the steps necessary to make this possible. a satisfactory resolution of the issue of iran’s nuclear ambitions is of fundamental importance to the international community. a nuclear-armed iran would add greatly to instability in the region and it could do irreparable damage to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and the rest of the international non-proliferation system. turning to the field of human rights, we continue to be deeply concerned by the serious and continuing violations by iran. we continue to hear reports of juvenile offenders being sentenced to death. iran continues to restrict freedom of expression and to imprison political prisoners, such as the investigative journalist, akbar ganji. iran continues to persecute religious minorities, including the baha’i community. i know from our last debate on this issue that this is a matter of ongoing and profound concern to many members of this parliament. we therefore urge iran to strengthen respect for human rights and the rule of law. it is disappointing that the eu-iran human rights dialogue has not been held since june 2004, despite repeated attempts – i can assure you – on the european union’s part to agree dates for the next round. it is important that iran take steps to resume substantive discussions under the dialogue. i welcome the resolution on human rights that canada tabled last week at the united nations general assembly. european union member states have agreed to co-sponsor it. iran must demonstrate by its actions that it is willing to improve respect for human rights. iran can begin to do this by fulfilling its obligations and earlier commitments in relation to juvenile executions and by permanently releasing prisoners of conscience. i hope that iran’s government does this without delay. turning now to terrorism, the council remains concerned by iran’s approach to terrorism. the fact that president ahmadinejad’s comments were made on the same day as the horrific attack at hadera in israel, for which palestinian islamic jihad claimed responsibility, should reinforce for us all the lesson that incitement to violence and the terrorism that it breeds are despicable and unacceptable acts. the european union has encouraged iran to join, without reservation, the international consensus on the necessary existence of two states – palestine and israel – living peacefully side by side within recognised borders. the european union stresses that support for palestinian terrorist groups is unacceptable. all states have a responsibility to work together to combat the threat of international terrorism. i believe that this is genuinely a crucial time for iran and for its government. the recent remarks by president ahmadinejad have focused attention upon iran and its position in the world. it is imperative that this attention be channelled constructively into effective influence on iran to address its policies on the nuclear issue, terrorism, human rights and regional and other questions, including the middle east peace process. the international community can have most influence when it is united. i believe our united response to president ahmadinejad’s remarks about israel has been successful in putting iranian policy on this issue directly under the spotlight. as foreign ministers of the european union said on 7 november, the evolution of the long-term relationship between iran and europe must depend on action by iran to address effectively all the european union’s areas of concern. it is up to iran to determine through its actions whether its long-term relationship with the european union will improve or deteriorate.
member of the commission. mr president, even though i am repeating something that has already been said, i would like to do so because i think the matter is so serious that it is necessary to do so. there was indeed a very broad and very speedy reaction from all the different european institutions. president barroso reacted immediately on behalf of the european commission by issuing a very firm condemnation in the clearest possible terms. we know that the president of the european parliament has also condemned this statement very forcefully and, as mr alexander has already said, the european council also issued a very strong declaration from hampton court. i also reiterated in public that mr mahmoud ahmadinejad’s statement on israel was shocking and completely unacceptable. it has also rightly been condemned in the strongest terms across the international community. i would also like to thank the presidency for having associated our heads of delegations in statements made by the presidency, together with the commission, especially in the arab countries. the foreign ministers further reiterated this collective condemnation of calls for violence and for the destruction of any state. they also concurred in the fact that ‘such comments cause concern about iran’s role in the region and its future intentions’. there is a long, very ugly string of precedents at political rallies, military parades and other events, going all the way back to the early years of the revolution. but when they are made in the current delicate climate, and especially by the head of state himself in connection with a conference entitled ‘the world without zionism’, i think it really is time to draw a red line and to remind the iranian president of the responsibilities that come with being a member of the family of nations. on the most burning issue, the nuclear track, we still believe that engagement is far preferable to brinkmanship, confrontation and isolation. we therefore support the efforts by the british presidency, france, germany, mr javier solana and like-minded partners to bring iran to a fuller cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and dr elbaradei in this regard the next meeting of the board of the iaea will be crucial. clearly we all want to avoid iran becoming a nuclear weapons state. but this is not the only area where we would expect the iranian government to deliver. iran’s attitude towards the middle east peace process in particular is very important. since the launch of our eu-iran comprehensive dialogue, the successor of the critical dialogue, that has been identified as one of the major issues of concern, along with weapons of mass destruction, terrorism and human rights. during mr khatami’s presidency, we used this channel of engagement to good effect. even though iran did not officially acknowledge the existence of israel, we registered some positive signs and a better appreciation of the whole middle east equation. in particular, it was stated that iran would not obstruct the peace process and would not pretend to be ‘more palestinian than the palestinians’. but the intemperate remarks by president ahmadinejad came as a setback. among the many condemnations it triggered, i was particularly pleased to note also that the palestinian authority representative, the chief palestinian negotiator, mr saeb erekat, displayed real statesmanship by recalling that the plo and the palestinian authority had recognised the state of israel, with which they pursued a peace process. thunderous neo-revolutionary warnings by the iranian leadership to other muslim countries not to recognise israel seem curiously out of step with the modern world and may very well backfire. over the past months, the eu has invited iran to reactivate our tracks of dialogue, by holding sessions of both the comprehensive dialogue and the human rights dialogue. i strongly hope that iran will recommit itself to these processes and seize the opportunity to clarify its position, dispel misunderstandings and start restoring an overall confidence that has been badly damaged by recent remarks. although today is not the occasion, one could speak at length about human rights and the positive expectations that were initially created during the first years of mr khatami’s presidency, and then about the subsequent negative trend that has regrettably cemented itself. improvements are indeed badly needed and the european union obviously cannot remain silent on the matter. i believe that we should try to build bridges with the iranian people and i prefer to think that not all iranians identify with the remarks and the line taken by their leaders. freedom of expression and association in iran are eroding. we should continue to monitor closely, for instance, the treatment of individual cases, such as that of mr akbar ganji. but as the council clearly stated last week, ‘the evolution of the long-term relationship, avoiding a deterioration between iran and europe, will depend on action by iran to address effectively all of the eu’s areas of concern’. that includes iran’s attitude towards the middle east peace process. the ball is now in the iranian government’s court. as a basic prerequisite we expect the iranian government to exercise responsible leadership, both domestically and internationally. iran has remarkable historical, cultural and geo-political assets, as well as immense natural and human resources. this entails special responsibilities in order to foster peace and stability within a particularly volatile neighbourhood.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our group has asked for this debate, and i would like to thank the other groups for their immediate agreement to hold it. what iranian president ahmadinejad said on 26 october about wiping out israel is so outrageous that we must condemn it in the strongest terms. we know that the revolutionary leader khomeini has already pursued a similar policy, but we appreciate all the more today that former president khatami did not follow that line. we say to israel - and i myself have criticised israel more than once in this parliament - that on a question like this, which concerns the security, stability and integrity of israel, we stand unreservedly by israel's side, and any challenge or attack on israel is a challenge to western civilization, it is a declaration of war also against europe and the whole world. the iranian leadership must know this. i am so disappointed in the developments in iran because i was in iran for a whole week at the time when ahmadinejad took over the government, and i still had the illusion that maybe things are not as bad as they seem. but because everything is going so badly, those who wanted to give the new government a chance with a lot of goodwill must say a clear word today: defend the beginnings; that must be our position. the tragedy is that this behavior of the new iranian - you have to say it - regime is not actually helping those it purports to help, namely the palestinians. it is not only the israelis who have the right to live in secure borders; the european parliament has always recognized the right of the palestinians to live within secure borders. the way the iranian president is behaving is putting the entire middle east peace process in question, and that is not only bad for israel, it is also bad for the dignity of the palestinian people. after we had criticized ahmadinejad, i saw on german television that there were demonstrations in tehran, where men with suicide belts were seen. that's a call for terrorism. when i was in iran, i saw a magazine that called on young people to report as suicide bombers or freedom fighters - whatever you want to call it, but it's a call for terrorism. i heard yesterday that on iranian children's television palestinian children were shown wearing these suicide belts, so to speak, to be an example for iranian children to be available for these suicide actions. and yesterday a british colleague told me that two people in iran were hanged for same-sex relationships. all of this shows that it is a return to the deepest middle ages, and we must call on the iranian leadership to come to their senses. both the council representative and the commissioner have spoken of the civil nuclear programme. iran has a right to do so. but iran does not have our trust, and that is why we are almost certain that one day they will use civilian nuclear development for nuclear weapons. and nuclear weapons in the hands of people who can be attributed to the middle ages is something that we as a european and world civilization cannot account for. i asked a representative of the russian government this morning to do everything possible for the russian government - which has a certain influence on iran - to ensure that there is finally transparency in all these questions of the development of nuclear energy, as the commissioner and the council representative have asked. ladies and gentlemen, let us be very vigilant about iran. iran must know that it is losing its great geographical and strategic role. iran is playing a big role in the peace process in afghanistan, in the peace process in iraq, in relations with syria, israel, lebanon, palestine. the iranian people are a great people; many did not participate in the election because they feared the worst and could not prevent it. but we should not forget those in iran who are of good will. iran needs a good future, and i hope the president has the insight to behave in a civilized manner in dealing with the people and the states of the world.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. my group in the green group is also pleased that we are going to adopt a unanimous resolution in which the european parliament also makes it clear that anyone - no matter whether an organisation or a state - who questions israel's right to exist or even speaks hateful words against it will not be accepted here and will be clearly rejected. the commission and the council have also made it clear what difficult problems we are facing. president ahmadinejad's speeches have made it clear that we europeans cannot stop a preacher of hatred who is moving through the country and mobilizing thousands. that is not our job, nor is it our area of expertise. but i would still appeal to the iranian authorities to consider whether they are not playing a positive role in the international community and are not advocating the right of palestine and israel to exist, rather than allowing this president to drive this rich country into international isolation. that is why i am appealing to the europeans and to us: we must differentiate. iran is a fascinating country with a young, well-educated society. iran is a society with active women's organizations fighting for their rights. iran is also an akbar ghanij whose life is in danger because he refuses to bow to censorship. iran is also the society of bloggers and journalists who are trying to keep in touch with us and expose this regime there. iran is nobel peace prize winner shirin ebadi, who spoke to us here. iran is also lawyer soltani, who we invited and who is now in prison. so we should try to reach out to this other iran. we should not make the mistake of cutting off contact with civil society now, of slamming the door. this is precisely what a president ahmadinejad wants to achieve; we should not follow him. we are committed to human rights, peace and the peaceful settlement of conflicts. this is our path. it 's just the dialogue ... (the president cut the speaker off)
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful to the honourable member for reinforcing the contemporary nature of these discussions amongst british politicians. i cannot claim to have spoken to hilary benn in quite as recent days as he has, but i can assure you that, when i meet him at cabinet tomorrow morning, i will search out what he told you at the remembrance service in leeds on sunday. in relation to the point he makes, however, he will have to wait just a little while longer because, before he re-entered the chamber this afternoon, i was sharing with other colleagues the process that we are taking forward now: as he knows, there was a discussion at coreper earlier in the course of the british presidency. it will not be discussed on 21 november at the general affairs council. we have instead decided to set out an options paper which will be issued in the coming days of our presidency and will then be discussed at the antici before discussion at coreper ii. coreper i will also feed into this process. if it would be of help to the honourable member, i shall certainly ensure that he receives a copy of the options paper when it is issued.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i should like to refer the honourable member to the council’s reply to his question h-0692/05 of 28 september. in my reply, i stated that article 2 of the fisheries agreement initialled on 28 july 2005 indicates that it applies ‘to the moroccan fisheries zone under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the kingdom of morocco’. this delimitation of the geographical scope of the agreement is identical to the delimitation in the previous agreement that expired in 1999 and does not in any way prejudice the issue of the status of western sahara. the initialled agreement is now in the ratification process, which is expected to lead to its formal conclusion in the first quarter of 2006.
president-in-office of the council. let me assure the honourable member that the political status of western sahara is being dealt with within the framework of the united nations. the council is offering the un its full support in finding a satisfactory resolution to the question of western sahara, and hopes that a resolution of the situation will be forthcoming. as i stated earlier, the fisheries agreement does not in any way prejudice the issue of the status of western sahara. as with the previous longstanding agreement, the new eu-morocco fisheries agreement applies to ‘the moroccan fisheries zone under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the kingdom of morocco’. the fisheries agreement does not in any way prejudice that issue of the status of western sahara, as the honourable member suggests.
mr president of the council! i do not think that morocco can be called an occupying power, as my colleague has done. i would like to ask you whether the western sahara problem is not rather a colonial legacy of us europeans, and whether we should not have understanding for both sides - for the moroccans and other groups - in order to find a genuine compromise solution here, which also takes account of the interests of morocco.
president-in-office of the council. let me assure the honourable member that we are looking for a genuine solution but we recognise that this genuine solution – the political status of the western sahara – is being dealt with in the framework of the united nations. the united nations enjoys the council’s full support in seeking to find that genuine and satisfactory solution to the question of the western sahara. we certainly hope that a resolution of this situation will be forthcoming.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her very honest and diligent work and i should like to say that the proposal for a directive under discussion is aimed at establishing standards to ensure relatively tolerable captive conditions for trapped animals. this proposal is dictated by the european community's obligation to honour its international commitments to canada, russia and the united states. these international commitments and obligations derive from the agreement on international non-vulnerability standards signed in 1998 between the european community, canada and the russian federation, as well as from another agreement of the same content signed between the european community and the united states in the form of agreed practices. the agreement with canada and russia, which has already been ratified by the european community and canada, will enter into force immediately after the forthcoming ratification by russia, a process which, according to official information to the commission, has already been launched. the european community will therefore not be able to meet its international commitments when the agreement comes into force unless appropriate community legislation is adopted. the scope of the proposed directive is indeed limited. however, if adopted, it would provide a framework for the establishment of common european union standards to limit the unnecessary torture and suffering of trapped animals. the proposed standards are based on the results of serious scientific work within the international standards organisation and have been adopted by the international union for the conservation of the environment. the proposal also provides that member states may maintain and apply more stringent national provisions. the draft directive also complements, rather than derogates from, existing standards under existing community legislation. for example, the ban on the use of jaw traps in the european union, under council regulation 3254/91, will continue to apply after the adoption of the new directive. i should like to stress that, during the procedure, we are prepared to consider the amendments in question in order to take account of the concerns expressed by various political groups and many animal welfare organisations, and the commission intends to continue to work in this direction. the rejection of the proposal means that the european union will remain without trapping standards in the foreseeable future, and that the european community will not be able to meet its international obligations. in conclusion, i would like to stress that i will take parliament's view into account and assess the positions expressed in both parliament and the council. on this basis, the commission will decide on further action, including the possible withdrawal of the proposal. at the same time, the commission plans to draw up a study to modernise the scientific basis for any proposal for the establishment of trapping standards. the relevant consultations with the interested parties will of course be included. i would like to conclude by expressing my wish to continue the good cooperation with you in the future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs scheele, for her very fair and even pleasant cooperation in the preparation of today's report, even though we do not agree on all the points. but we agree on the outcome. i can just say, many roads lead to rome. the point on the agenda today is a very special one for the european parliament. we are dealing with the implementation of an international agreement between canada, the usa, russia and the eu, although this agreement was rejected by this parliament - as the rapporteur has already said - in 1998. it is not a question of the european parliament. i am not so concerned about this situation, i voted for the convention at the time, or against the rejection, because i had confidence that the required standards were being met in the countries involved and because i had a great interest in the maintenance of the livelihoods of the indigenous peoples in those countries and their earning a living from the fur trade. it is certainly justifiable to do so because trade has been facilitated. but one thing was also achieved, and that is why i agreed at the time: cruel animal traps were banned. these were, if you take plate irons as an example, sometimes the purest instruments of torture. this has been achieved thanks to long-term pressure from the european parliament, the european commission and animal welfare organisations. the european commission's directive today contains all the provisions of the conventions which enable trade, i.e. primarily the import of furs into the european union. we therefore believe that the implementation of the directive concerns the internal market and that the legal basis should therefore be article 95. the fact that this is not the case is one reason why we reject this report. i would like to draw the commission's attention to my amendments, which do not seem to have found a majority in parliament. sometimes the time for certain regulations is not yet ripe. i have proposed that these commission proposals should be translated into a regulation calling on the member states to implement the conventions, which would therefore oblige them to do so, with all the marginal effects of reporting, etc. i think that's a good approach. i also agree with the rapporteur that we should improve the parameters and call for research. but this is a matter for the member states, not for the european union. the conditions in the various countries are so different that we have to take subsidiarity into account. that is why we reject the commission's proposal.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can sum up a lot of things: trapping is practiced by hundreds of thousands of people in the european union and is mainly used for wildlife management and in particular for pest control, e.g. in the case of the bison rat. in 1998, the eu concluded the agreement on international humane trapping standards with canada, russia and the usa. these countries are major exporters of fur and hides, and the eu has therefore justifiably justified this in two decisions by its responsibility for general economic policy and in particular for internal market policy. today's draft law seeks to implement this agreement in the eu. the commission's proposal is based on a balance between the reduction of avoidable animal suffering and the need for trapping, a balance which is still open to debate. however, the proposal focuses on the legal basis for environmental policy. however, the eu is only responsible for animal welfare in the context of other policies such as agriculture, transport, the internal market or research. it therefore has no general competence in the field of wildlife welfare. of course the european parliament - and of course i - is in favour of safeguarding the welfare of wild animals. but this is a matter for the legislation of the member states. the european parliament, as the european legislator, must respect the subsidiarity rights of the member states and therefore, regardless of the well-intentioned content, reject this legislative proposal. the european union can fulfil its obligations, commissioner, by means of the member states' adoption of appropriate regulations.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the subject of my report is of a very different nature from the presentation of the points we have just heard. the question is not how we deal with arms internationally, it is not about arms control, but whether we want to allow the liberalisation of the european internal market to include the purchase of arms. first of all, i would like to thank very warmly the colleagues who have contributed to the preparation of the report - as rapporteur in the committee on foreign affairs and as shadow rapporteur in the committee on industry, research and energy - for their contribution. i have been able to draw very valuable ideas from the discussions and discussions which are then reflected in the report. i thank the commission for its very good cooperation and for its willingness to postpone the adoption of the following white paper for a while to await our opinion. i would also like to thank the circles involved who participated in our hearing and helped us to prepare this sector. it is a very delicate subject, because the procurement of arms is, so to speak, a core area of national sovereignty. that is why the ec treaty, as far back as the 1950s, provided for a derogation for the protection of national security interests. but we have been gradually, continuously, and basically also in terms of security policy, coming closer together over the last decades, and the debate on the two previous reports shows that we are basically pursuing a common policy approach in these areas globally. however, the procurement market within the european union remains highly fragmented. everyone has their own supplier. there is no competition, but fragmentation, which means that our industry is not internationally competitive either. it leads to the purchase of armaments at very high cost, which might be available at a lower price elsewhere, and in this way it naturally leads to a burden on the taxpayers' pockets, who end up paying for all this. that is why we in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and, in parallel, in the committee on foreign affairs, felt that it was time to take a bold step in this respect. we support the commission's proposal to clarify and clarify this exception clause in article 296, precisely because we find that there is a lot of abuse. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's defence industry is not excluded from the internal market. we have a black spot in the single market, and this is at least with a market volume of 160 billion euros a year. we want to send the message to the public that the mutual opening of procurement markets also documents the trust between the member states. we want to say to them: let us take a step forward now to save public expenditure and let us set in motion a process which will lead to greater competitiveness, which may even make it possible to free ourselves a little from certain dependencies on suppliers from outside europe! i am referring only to the current procurement arrangements for aircraft fuels or for guided missiles, where we are largely dependent on the subcontracting of other markets. i would like to conclude by saying a few words on the amendments tabled: i believe that the key to the success of the great community across all party lines in this process was that we said from the outset: we are focusing on the internal market issue and we are failing to overburden the discussion with general security, military, peace-keeping concerns. it is also true that mrs beer of the greens and i of the csu initially presented a more or less identical report in the discussions. the amendments which we have tabled are of an ideological nature and would be a departure from that. i therefore recommend that you vote against amendment no 5 except for one amendment, but otherwise i would ask you to vote in favour of this report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would have liked, as mr wiersma would have, for the debate to take place at a more civil time of day, because as a member of both the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on foreign affairs i consider it to be of particular importance. we all know that the member states are currently evading the rules of the internal market in the field of armaments by claiming, under article 296 of the ec treaty, an essential national interest in the procurement of new weapons systems, but not confining this to actual weapons systems, but now applying it to the procurement of all armaments. however, since only about 4% of the contracts are covered by article 296 on closer examination, it is necessary to find a way of achieving greater transparency in the award of public contracts for the other 96%. the commission has taken the initiative and the rapporteur, mr wuermeling, has expressed his support for the drafting of an interpretative communication on article 296 and a directive on public procurement in safety-related fields. i recommend support for the report on behalf of my group, without ruling out the possibility of a code of conduct as an additional instrument to create more transparency. the advantages of a uniform procurement policy in the common european defence policy are clear. at present, european defence spending is about 160 billion euros. we must achieve greater efficiency in spending. we owe it to the taxpayers. suppliers can achieve economies of scale if the quantity demanded is large enough. this would save considerable tax revenue. in the future, it will be even more important to work together in research which is very costly. it is also essential to seek common technological standards so that task forces from different countries can cooperate. last but not least, common defence structures also contribute to greater political integration and solidarity within the european union. i therefore recommend support for the green paper, using all three of the instruments proposed to improve transparency. the commission proposal is a step in the right direction towards achieving a new strategic positioning of europe in security and defence policy. it is necessary, because the number of our foreign policy tasks will increase, not decrease. we live in a changed security environment with new threats, terrorism, unstable states, conflicts over the distribution of natural resources, religious and political fanaticism. no eu member state can meet these challenges on its own. the key word is europeanization. the european union must be able to do this only if it is united in its external relations, if it makes full use of its capabilities, if it is united in its approach and if it overcomes structural fragmentation. the cost of operations will also increase, especially if the eu-25 arms market remains fragmented. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. there are still serious differences here. the goal must be to get our soldiers to operate together. according to eurobarometer, two thirds of european citizens support greater cooperation within the eu in the field of security. a functioning arms market is a necessary condition for our security. we therefore welcome the commission's initiative and the rapporteur's report. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the night is gun time in the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all three contain a lot of explosives and all three have a lot in common. the report on arms exports is, in the view of my group, to be viewed positively in its entirety and in its main lines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us not forget that the production, export and use of arms and armaments go together and are the preconditions for war. weapons exports are a threat to peace. it is all the more important that the code of conduct finally has the legal binding force that this report calls for and that everyone in this house would obviously welcome. raül romeva has thankfully adopted an amendment by my group which makes it possible for this legal binding to also apply to dual-use goods. the european arms agency, which has been in existence for a year, is not only promoting arms exports, according to arms experts, but it is also making controls much more difficult. that is why we have proposed in our amendment the abolition of the so-called defence agency. i would like to appeal in particular to my green and socialist colleagues to join the left group in setting up an arms export control agency instead of an arms agency. the report by mr kristovski is quite different. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. but what we have here is a report on arson which itself refers positively to the violation of international law by the iraq war. i would appeal to you not to vote in favour of this report, not just to abstain, as we have just heard from the social democrats, and not to vote in favour of the other amendments tabled by the uen group, which are more stringent on iran, and which mr kristovskis has tabled. i would like to ask the conservative group not to accept the interpretation that iran has been sowing and earning mistrust for 17 years in the matter of weapons of mass destruction. that is simply not true. the report seems to take the war against iraq as a blueprint for an attack on iran, even though former us secretary of state powell no longer claims that iraq had weapons of mass destruction at the time and is now ashamed of his appearance before the un security council. the report is hypocritical in the usual way in this house on the question of western weapons of mass destruction. we therefore propose the following points: that the us nuclear weapons must be withdrawn from europe, that the french and british nuclear weapons must be ground to a halt, and that germany finally renounces its potential for uranium enrichment at the garching research reactor. for the final report. mr wuermeling, you say that our industry is not internationally competitive, but at the same time you say that the reports are unrelated. if it is a question of competition, then it is probably a question of export competition and that is why this article 296 must be dropped. i think that this report on the green paper on the armaments industry is simply very open and honest. it is about close cooperation with nato and the usa, and our group will vote against this report as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. if you ask me, this debate we are having today is a missed opportunity. first of all, the time of day: it was originally planned that this debate should take place today at 11 a.m. in the presence of the council. it is now taking place just before midnight, after what must have been a fascinating debate on the catch standards for certain species. second, the headline is wrong. it's not about guns. it is about the security and defence policy of the european union. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of nuclear safety. thirdly, i very much regret the absence of the council. the european union's security and defence policy is characterised by the close interlinking of civilian and military crisis management. this can only be achieved if the commission and the council act together, and i know how difficult that is. if the council is not even present, how are we to discuss these matters? it is also a missed opportunity because there are great opportunities in the field of security and defence. even in the presence of a father of the constitution like elmar brok, i dare say that the european constitution is currently blocked. we are also currently blocked on the financial issues. but we are not blocked in the further development of the european union's security and defence policy, because we have just recently created the defence agency, which was only envisaged in the draft constitution. it has already been realized. we have taken responsibility for security in bosnia and herzegovina. there are soldiers under european command. we have fulfilled the obligation of mutual assistance, which was also envisaged in the draft constitution. that means that things are moving forward in this area and i am convinced that we are on the way to a european security and defence union. that is the goal we are all striving for. this is a debate which we cannot have in the way we are doing tonight, with the public shut out. i would like to say a word to mr lambsdorff. i think it is right that we should have this debate in strasbourg, because strasbourg is the seat of the european parliament.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the three rapporteurs, wuermeling, romeva i rueda and kristovskis, address important issues which we must see in a much more coherent context and not in three reports in isolation, since they are only contradictory on the surface but in reality they are interrelated. we live in a world where the threat of terrorists who may also possess dirty weapons is more dangerous than ever. if we assume that iran cannot be stopped from producing nuclear weapons -- it is already producing missiles with a range of 3,000 kilometers -- we will have a region that spans the landmass of iran, pakistan, india, china, russia, and thus represents a single large -- the largest -- region in the world that has nuclear weapons. we have to think about how we want to ensure our security as a small part of this world. we can only do this through collective security in the transatlantic alliance, and that also means that we europeans cannot just sit back here, because then we would be vulnerable to blackmail for a variety of reasons and from a variety of regions of the world. secondly, we must make it clear that only if we have our own arms production are we able to give industrial policy a boost, that this means jobs, but that this also means that we have our independence, because if we do not have this industrial policy approach and we do not have our own arms production, we are dependent on purchases from other parts of the world and can be blackmailed at any time because we cannot do what we want and therefore do not contribute to our own security. at least it will be much more expensive, because then the synergies which are provided by this european approach will not be used. that is why it is necessary that the european union and the commission should be given more money for research and other areas so that we can be able to guarantee our own security and be able to form alliances and at the same time be independent and not be able to be blackmailed. all of this must be incorporated into a code of conduct that gives us the credibility to act against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. i believe that this code of conduct should be legally binding. i would much rather see the exception in the treaty deleted, namely that arms exports are not - as is the case with all trade - the responsibility of the commission, which is one of the weak points both in terms of control and in terms of the ability of the european union as a whole to act. the appropriate approaches should be found here. i would therefore like to invite us to put more emphasis on this issue in order to save money, to ensure the safety of our citizens and at the same time to contribute to a more peaceful world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me say something about mr batten first. it is interesting to hear him as a representative of a list on which he has stood alongside two people who have been publicly convicted in recent weeks, in very short succession, of misusing the secretarial allowance. we should be much more aggressive in this house and in our public relations work with this bunch of hypocrites than we have been so far. now, to the point. it is not sensible that in three important member states of the european union, for example, in the unmanned aerial vehicle project, different companies are working on separate projects that have nothing to do with each other and are making, so to speak, multiple profits. the european taxpayer does not deserve this. it is also pointless that three important member states of the european union are developing electronic identification systems for infantrymen separately and that it is not sufficiently clear whether soldiers from the same european battle group can identify each other in action if they belong to different nations. we should also continue to be aware that even in ten years' time the armies in the european union will still need to have 23 different types of armoured vehicles. the implications of this in terms of compatibility and supply problems in operational conditions are understandable to everyone. i would also like to warn against an illusion: a common market for defence products will not come about if companies operating under market conditions have to compete with state-supported companies. this is an aspect which has not been touched upon in today's debate, and i would also like to suggest to mr wuermeling that it would not be useful to look at this implication of the debate on article 296 in more detail and draw conclusions from it for the future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. at this late hour we are discussing whether we need defence technology in europe and what we can do to make a common european foreign and security policy a reality. first of all, i would like to say - and i expressly agree with mr brok - that, in response to the questions raised by colleagues on the other side of the house, we need defence technology in the european union because we cannot make ourselves dependent on third parties for our security in europe and we cannot be subject to blackmail. it has also been said by colleagues that the people of europe expect more joint action by the member states in the field of foreign and security policy. one or two of these have already been achieved. the mission in bosnia has been mentioned. many other things have also been successful. however, it must be said quite frankly that the road to a genuine common foreign and security policy - as citizens imagine it - is still a long way off. i therefore expressly welcome the fact that the commission's proposal, with its green paper on the defence market and the report by mr wuermeling, is pointing in the right direction. they require the member states to take an important step towards the development of common defence structures and greater political integration by adopting common rules for the procurement of military defence equipment. the increased efficiency of the substantial defence expenditure which this entails automatically leads to further unification of the european market and therefore serves the taxpayer expressis verbis. i would like to put forward some ideas on how this common code of conduct can be drawn up. the commission has already developed, in 1958, material and rules which could serve as a basis for interpreting article 296. unfortunately, these have never been published or used. but it would certainly be worthwhile to look at what was considered worthy of consideration back then. the creation of a code of conduct must ensure that there is no conflict between decisions taken by the european defence agency on the one hand and by the commission on the other. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the approval has found a majority here which i cannot support, which is why we voted against it. the report, however, is supported by the registration, which was adopted by a large qualified majority - the only important block and the most important question, which was adopted by a qualified majority in this house. this decision will also have weight in the council and the commission. it is only in view of this and with the express rejection of the authorization, which we know will be corrected in the council, that i agree to the report.
in writing. i am therefore pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to adopt the reach proposal in the light of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
in writing. since the beginning of the debate on a new european chemicals law, i have been campaigning for the european commission's proposal to be revised with the aim of protecting the environment and health in europe better than before, but reducing excessive bureaucratic requirements. i therefore supported the line of the epp-ed group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. 2. the exclusion of substances which are either regulated elsewhere or do not present a hazard potential; 3. a tightening of the requirements concerning chemicals contained in tobacco smoke. the vote also adopted some unacceptable negative points. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this is impractical, bureaucratic and not necessary for the protection of the environment and health. in the final vote i voted 'yes' because the commission's proposal has been improved in three main respects. i hope that the council of ministers will reject the nonsensical proposals, such as the five-year time limit, and adopt the sensible proposals, and that we will finally have a reach that is actually workable.
in writing. at the end of this vote i would like to make it clear that my agreement with the report by mr sacconi relates exclusively to my agreement with the compromise on registration negotiated between the rapporteur and myself. my agreement expressly does not refer to the other points, and in particular not to the approach taken for authorization, as i am strictly opposed to the limited authorization of substances.
in writing. the report by guido sacconi (a6-03156/2005) on the 'reach: establishing a european agency for the control of persistent organic pollutants' will be voted on in the strasbourg plenary on thursday 17 november 2005. i firmly believe that the fundamental objective of this regulation is to be welcomed, but the implementation is deficient and leads to a handicap for the eu in global competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the regulation is therefore unfavourable to growth and employment. it will make the european location for the chemical industry much less attractive. that is why i shall vote against the report in the final vote. in my view, the commission proposal as it stands should be referred back to them.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, africa is the continent where the greatest challenges to development are to be met. progressive desertification, water shortages, famine and aids have reached critical levels. africa is the continent where donors are more present than anywhere else. it is therefore the continent where the need for coordination and complementarity is most urgent. countries such as tanzania and mozambique each have to manage some 500 individual projects from european donors in the social infrastructure sector alone, even though the amount spent on each project is relatively small. africa is also the continent that offers us the greatest opportunity today. the birth of the african union and the development of the african development agenda, the strengthening of the role of regional economic communities, and the emergence of a new generation of national leaders have changed african governance. new glimmers of peace are appearing in the democratic republic of congo, somalia, burundi, and liberia. this continent, the ecological lung of the world, is rich in natural resources beyond compare. it is also a demographic powerhouse in prospect. by 2025 there will be more than 1.3 billion africans, almost as many as the people of china or india, more than the citizens of the european union and the united states combined, and with the advantage of a younger population, since by then nearly 800 million africans will be under the age of 15. this africa deserves more than ever the full attention of europe. that is why the commission has proposed a new strategy for africa, which was adopted on 12 october and presented to this house on the same day, a strategy which is supposed to provide the european union with a single, comprehensive and long-term framework for its relations with africa. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy for africa is based on three lines of force: one africa, one europe and one objective. one africa: although africa has many faces, many histories and different needs, it has now collectively embarked on a path of political, economic and cultural integration of the entire continent, which is reflected in efforts to integrate regional economic communities, the launch of the african union and nepad. in short, this is an integration which deserves our unconditional support. one: europe has also changed. the enlargement of the european union to ten new member states has brought the number of potential individual partners to twenty-six, i.e. the twenty-five member states plus the european community. this development has increased the potential political and economic impact of the european union, even if enlargement brings new challenges in terms of coordination and complementarity of aid. the european union's strategy for africa will therefore make aid effectiveness and donor coordination the top priorities for the coming years. one objective: europe's security policy, for example, has long coexisted with its development policy, sometimes very badly indeed. the recent experience - i am thinking in particular of the facility for peace in africa - shows how closely security and development are linked and how important it is that european policies in these areas be closely coordinated. in the european union's strategy for africa, the common objective is therefore to promote the achievement of the millennium development goals in africa. our overall strategy includes a series of concrete proposals, as you know, and i am pleased to note that we largely agree on these elements, some of which are included in mrs martens' report, such as strengthening the african peace facility, strengthening national parliaments and civil society organisations in planning and setting priorities, not to mention monitoring development cooperation policy. the conclusion of economic partnership agreements as a development-oriented tool for liberalisation offers the potential to promote economic growth in africa. as regards the creation of a climate favourable to stable and predictable investment, we have, as you know, proposed to this end a permanent european forum bringing together african and european entrepreneurs and the creation of infrastructure in the broadest sense including water, energy, ict and transport, as provided for in the framework of the europe-africa partnership on infrastructure. the launch of a new eu action programme to combat aids, tuberculosis and malaria, the emphasis on higher education alongside efforts in basic education and the increase in budget support are also worth mentioning. the commission and the member states must endeavour to move from aid projects to sectoral approaches and to orient budgetary aid accordingly - we shall probably return to this in the course of this debate. finally, the increased coordination of european aid and the implementation of a roadmap on coherence, coordination and complementarity are aimed at improving the effectiveness of eu development cooperation. these are the main lines of the africa strategy. i am pleased to see that parliament agrees with our three basic concepts and with the concrete proposals. the report by mrs martens and the resolution proposed are ambitious. i'm glad, i thank you and i commend you.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission is not it actually seems to be a sign of the importance of african politics that we are having this debate now and that we are having it in this small circle. the committee on foreign affairs has discussed an opinion on this report, in some cases very vigorously, but in the end it was unanimous. unfortunately, at the request of the conservatives, a majority subsequently refused to call for a debate on the role of colonialism, which i believe would be important in the context of africa. our opinion states, among other things, that fundamental human rights must be respected in the handling of refugees and illegal immigrants at the eu's border in africa. i was there recently with a delegation: it is a very good example of how the eu is fighting poverty at the moment, with fences and walls, and that is very problematic. in our opinion we call for a debate on the social responsibility of governments and businesses as an integral part of the new africa strategy. the commission would certainly have to make some improvements. our opinion also mentions the need to reverse the proposed cuts in the measures to combat hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis, and stresses the need to promote peace and conflict resolution in africa, and therefore also refers in particular to the control of arms exports, which was discussed yesterday. i would also like to mention in this context that i took note of the speech you made, mr michel, to the weu parliamentary assembly on 21 september. you mentioned that 250 million euros for african troops should be taken from the development aid budget. i believe that this is the wrong way to go, and i warn against mixing up eu security or military policy with eu development policy.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission's initiative on a development strategy for africa to promote the coherence of european development cooperation is in principle to be welcomed. so far, each government in africa has pursued its own interests, formulated its own development cooperation strategies and implemented them in its own structures. i believe that coherence and improved coordination of aid are very important if we are to make a real contribution to the fight against hunger, to the prevention of violent conflict and the breakdown of states. the african countries are clearly distinguishable in terms of their social, cultural, economic, political and ecological development. this must be taken into account in a european development strategy, as must the perspective of the people of africa and the conditions and processes in their countries. the knowledge of regional organisations, elected parliaments, civil society organisations and trade unions in africa on processes and approaches to address grievances in their countries should be incorporated into a development strategy for africa. only then does the 'ownership' criterion, which is emphasised in the report, make sense for development cooperation. the president of the african union was rightly indignant when he was asked about the refugee tragedy in melilla. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the trade committee in its opinion reaffirmed that, among other things, the elimination of export subsidies is important for africa to become an equal partner in world trade. the commission's development strategy, on the other hand, does not contain a clear commitment to this. the present strategy will only improve aid efficiency if it is seen as a guideline for cooperation with the various partner countries. such a framework for eu development cooperation must take into account the diversity within africa and include the experience and know-how of africans. this is the only way this strategy can make a real contribution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commission for presenting its africa strategy on 12 october. it is an analysis of the potential of this continent, but also a reflection of the present situation. in addition to some positive developments in some african countries - of course in south africa, botswana, ghana and hopefully also in mauritania - we have a much longer list of countries with internal conflicts or conflicts with neighbours, with widespread poverty, and the subject of disease has already been raised: hiv/aids, malaria, tuberculosis - the great scourges of africa. if we ask why africa is so far behind other continents, we have to look at africa, but also europe and the other continents. if we look at africa, we see that unfortunately in many areas there are governments, there are elites who have apparently misunderstood the timing of decolonization and have developed an understanding to put themselves in the place of the old colonizers and also to treat their own people in the way that was apparently done before by the european colonial powers. this is, of course, a misunderstanding of development or how independence should be used. but i think, if we are honest, the greatest responsibility lies with europe and the other continents. we just need to think about how european powers continue to intervene in africa, whether directly politically or militarily, or when it comes to creating the conditions for developing their own resources for their own companies and retaining access to them. i think it is really necessary that the commission, with its approach, should make the member states more committed to a coherent policy towards africa, to overcome these contradictions and to ensure that the future of this continent looks better than it has been so far.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we strongly welcome the initiative to draw up a joint declaration by the council, the commission and parliament in the spirit of a consensus on european development policy. this is a good initiative by the trialogue, and it is - as has already been mentioned here - a political innovation in terms of procedures. we must therefore also thank mr anders wijkman, who has worked so efficiently for the committee on development and for parliament in this trialogue and has presented this good report. this report and this consensus can be an important step towards greater coherence in european development policy. there is a great deal of agreement in this house on the objectives: the paramount importance of poverty reduction that it is not just about reducing poverty but fighting it at its root enforcing social justice, creating equal opportunities for development and achieving the millennium development goals. but that's the theory. we must realise that in practice we are far from that. the new human development report 2005 tells us that the number of people in absolute poverty continues to increase dramatically. that is why it is right that we focus our efforts on investing in food security, education, health and social security. it is about helping developing countries to go their own way, to retain control of their own development strategy. so it's good that the principles of ownership and partnership are at the centre. the european union needs to review all its policies for their compatibility with development, in particular trade, agriculture and fisheries policies. that is the theory, but now it is a matter of coordinating the policies of 25 countries more closely. we want more coordination by the commission and the council and more co-decision by parliament.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are all convinced that we need a higher quality and effectiveness of eu development policy and that it should be guided above all by the implementation of the millennium development goals. eu development cooperation must have the global objective of reducing and ultimately eradicating poverty in the context of sustainable development. it is therefore important that this paper, which is before us today, should once again make it clear that the aim must be to forgive countries their debts and also to ensure that they do not fall back into a debt trap, for example by increasing the amount of aid granted. both the un and global health watch have repeatedly pointed out this summer that inequalities between countries and within countries, between rich and poor, are unlikely to have increased in the last decade, and that we as the eu need to address this situation of the world's poorest much more. they are the first and most massively affected by the consequences of privatisation and the increasing exclusion of resources such as land, water and forests. they are also increasingly excluded from access to food, health, culture and education. we need a development policy that addresses these issues. i can only welcome the intention to present a consensus document of the three institutions of the european union. we have the full support of mr anders wijkman, who is taking part in the negotiations on behalf of the committee on development.
member of the commission. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank you all. you have obviously contributed a great deal to the work that we can present here today. i hope that parliament's input will make the final document acceptable to everyone, which would be a very important step forward. mr kaczmarek talks about the role of national parliaments and i quite agree with him. i am also pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the financing of the community's external action. i think that in a number of countries it is useful for national parliaments to be mobilised, informed and motivated on the question of development. i am therefore entirely prepared to devote myself to this task. mr martinez, you say that the present declaration is disappointing. i am happy to admit that it is not perfect, of course, and i hope that we can improve it further. however, this declaration is already an important step forward, as it would be the first time that the union would have a framework in this area. it would also be the first time that a policy would be endorsed by both the commission, parliament and the council, and that parliament and the commission would, it seems to me, be offered greater leverage to move development policy forward in the direction of efficiency and better coordination. so, of course, i would like to see it be much more ambitious. it has been watered down at times, but believe me, the attempts are not over, and i am of course counting on both mr wijkman and also on some of the member states at council level to help us preserve the declaration in its best and most progressive form. as regards mrs zimmer and the debt issue, we obviously agree that the burden of debt must be lightened. on the other hand, although this would be another debate, i am not a fanatic for the unconditional cancellation of debt in any case. i am, however, a firm and fervent supporter of debt relief or cancellation in very specific cases and under very specific conditions. as regards mr libicki, i think there is one point on which we cannot agree. your approach to reproductive health is different from mine. you make it an ideological problem, i do not, because i have a humanistic view of the matter. i don't make it an ideological issue. secondly, and far from being a polemic, i believe you are restricting reproductive health to abortion. i see many other things in it, and i see in it especially the health and rights of women and children. so i don't give in to ideology. i simply ask you to understand the reality in some countries, in some societies - i am in fact very often in contact with this reality - and i would really like to be able to convince you that there is still much to be done. some forms of conservative archaism, with all the respect i have for the philosophical thinking of others, do not seem to me to be very generous in their responses to certain human tragedies that i have the opportunity to find myself confronting. so i cannot accept this reproach. i have no preconceptions and i can respect everyone's thinking, philosophy, religious beliefs and so on. but i think at some point, we should still move beyond those beliefs to see what the public good really is, to see what generosity really is, to know how to really design action for good. i believe that this is a goal that can be achieved across religious, ideological and philosophical divides. mr president, in the last few months your parliament has worked tirelessly to respond to the commission's offer and to contribute to the achievement of a genuine european consensus on development which is the expression of the will of the three european institutions: parliament, the commission and the council. this joint effort shows the importance we all attach to development and shows that the institutions are working together to improve the effectiveness of our action. we have every right to do so. as i have said on several occasions, development policy has the potential to be an important tool for making europe a presence and a positive force in the world. it could also play a fundamental role in the union's external policy, because of its exemplary nature; not necessarily by its interventionism, but by its positive example. it's a role based on a long-term vision rather than short-term interests. it is a role which is aimed at the well-being of the people of developing countries, as well as our own. i think we are faced with a political choice: either we harness this capacity to combat the negative effects of globalisation and to exploit its full potential in an equitable way, or we lock ourselves into a charitable conception of development and wait for it to turn into a monster: terrorism, unmanageable mass migration, pandemics, financial instability, poverty and misery. globalisation is bringing the north and the south together, and i believe that development policy must ensure that this union is a source of justice and shared growth, not of dependency and poverty. discussions with the council are still ongoing. the new development policy declaration has not yet been adopted. and i think that we are now really, if everyone makes an effort, very close to a european consensus on development. i simply have to invite you to make a final effort together to follow up our joint work, in the spirit of partnership which has united us in recent months to achieve our common objective. as a commissioner, i would first of all like to thank you for your active contribution to the debates concerning my area of competence and my department, both for your pertinent questions and also, mr martinez, for your impertinent questions. i think it is essential that the commission is constantly under pressure from parliament, because that is how we move forward. i think progress has never come from a priori consensus. progress always comes from tensions, from clashes of ideas, and i thank you for your participation in this work. i think that without parliament i would have been much more destitute than i am today, not to mention the declaration we have reached today, which would have been much more dull than it is. i think we have the means to draw up a good text, which will be a substantial step forward. i would like to conclude by thanking you once again for your contribution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a very brief question to the commissioner, which is important for the vote: can the commissioner exclude by definition that the term 'reproductive health' includes abortion?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not after the earthquake in kashmir, i read in a newspaper the terrible headline: "even the earthquake cannot shake the enmity between india and pakistan". this headline shows that even in this extreme emergency, political tensions are unfortunately still being carried out on the backs of the population. when a country is artificially divided, germans inevitably think of berlin. i myself have seen places in berlin where people have drowned in canals in the middle of berlin because no one at the wall could and was allowed to help them. that is, an action that was in itself reasonable, namely, to save a drowning person, had to be avoided for political reasons, because the iron curtain was then in place. it makes you sensitive to what's going on in kashmir. we must be clear about this: this earthquake is already a terrible humanitarian disaster, but we are facing a winter of mass civilian deaths unless the authorities on both sides finally overcome their inability and, in some cases, their unwillingness to cooperate and help, and unless the aid finally reaches where it is supposed to go. kashmir is a victim of the fact that at the time of india's founding, india did not accept kashmir's right to self-determination. meanwhile, there are also problems with pakistan. we should conclude from this that kashmir is not just a bilateral problem between these two states, but above all a problem of the kashmiri people, and therefore also our problem. we should not only engage in dialogue with the two powers there - as important as they are as nuclear powers and major states - but we should also intensify direct contact with the kashmiri people and their representatives, especially their local representatives. this humanitarian catastrophe offers an opportunity to do so. we must first of all help the people without ideology and secondly work towards a solution for this region.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am quite clearly against the postponement of the vote. mr wijkman did not speak on behalf of the group of the european people's party. i've got this all figured out. mrs martens herself is in favour of a vote on her report. the scandal is not that a vote is taken with 79 votes, but that the others are not present. they're there, they're voting, and that's fine.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just want to say that i've been here all afternoon without any interruption. i've heard that before and i've made it clear.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 134 of the rules of procedure. if it does not, rule 167 of the rules of procedure, provisionally rule 171 of the rules of procedure. i would ask that the agenda be extended to include a statement by the commission on the slovak government's decision to bring the police under military law in certain areas, or to investigate and make a statement on whether this decision by the slovak government is compatible with title vi of the eu treaty, which expressly provides for full freedom of association and full exercise of trade union rights for all citizens of the european union. the slovak government has decided that the police in that country will not be able to exercise these rights to a large extent. for example, if a police officer in slovakia participates in a demonstration to improve his working hours or his income by exercising his trade union rights, he may be subject to military law. we believe that this is a violation of a fundamental right of eu citizens by the government of a member state. this is unacceptable. we ask the commission to make a statement here in the house on this process. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful to you for allowing me to speak again, because parliament is not here to listen to the commission's assessment of our proposals. first, we wanted to clarify a matter of procedure. i refer to rule 134, which provides for the extension of the agenda. i would ask that the agenda be extended to include a statement by the commission on the above-mentioned point.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i would like to make a few points. but before i get to that, i want to congratulate you on having a reasonable negotiating package. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, you have pointed out that the united states' offer on agriculture came very late. but we also know that it will still be necessary for the emerging countries to give signals in the area of services and also in the area of liberalization of industrial goods so that we can also agree to a reasonable package on our part. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is important that we take seriously the message of this development cycle and treat it seriously. it is indeed a doha development round, and this time the developing countries - especially the poorest - will be the focus. we should never forget how much the european union is already doing and how much it is contributing to bringing about more fairness here. mr president, you have already mentioned this: we also need to recognize that the landscape of globalization has changed. we are now dealing with emerging countries which are power conscious, which are global powers in the economic, social and political spheres and which want and must play their part. but this also includes the corresponding responsibility which we hope these countries will assume in this round. if we do not achieve a positive result, or at least a positive signal for further negotiations, more bilateral agreements will be needed and we will see a breakdown in the multilateral negotiations as a whole - which we hope we do not want. i want to address a few important points. firstly, i hope that we will go back to the way we have done in the previous negotiating rounds, that we will have discussions with the commission, with the two responsible commissioners, in particular with commissioner peter mandelson, but of course also with the council. it would be nice if you could add something to that later. you are negotiating within a very narrow framework, which has been set out in your mandate. if there is a conflict and you have to negotiate beyond the limits of your mandate, it would be right, commissioner, to seek talks not only with the council but also with the parliament's delegation which is present. i know you're not obligated to, but it would be good to have these conversations. secondly, as usual, the european parliament will hold its own conference with the interparliamentary union, with all the colleagues present from the various wto countries. we would, of course, be delighted to have such discussions with you. thirdly, we always stress that we would like to see a final mention in the final declaration, which you are helping to draw up, of the importance of parliaments in these negotiations, not of the european parliament - that is reserved for us - but of the wto parliaments as a whole. i would be glad if you could succeed this time - and the council would also support it - in including such a mention in the wto's final declaration.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the president of the council and the commissioner have clearly demonstrated the old british colonial logic which once gave rise to the british empire: a clear division of labour, industrial goods coming from the industrialized countries, food coming cheaply from the colonies and leaving the agricultural land to the sheep. mr mandelson, that traditional attitude is a thing of the past. the european union is not a military force, but a political force. but it will not work because the third world countries are now fighting back, because they are making their own interests visible and are using their cultural, social and ecological property and the right to basic food against the intellectual property that we want to sell them in the form of services at a high price. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be sensible to put the customs duties into a fund to finance rural economic development projects worldwide from that fund, so that the industrial economy can get going here too. that would be a contribution we could make. but if we think we can buy them out below the poverty line, mr mandelson, we are making the hunger worse. trade does not make rich or rich, at least not all of them, but only those who benefit from it, and these are essentially multinational companies not based in the third world countries.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the wto had announced a 'development round' with the doha development agenda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is particularly evident in the strong pressure exerted by the industrialized countries to open up markets for nonagricultural products and services, making this a condition for progress in the agricultural negotiations. in return, they offer the developing countries only a vague and non-binding announcement of the abolition of export subsidies. that's not fair, to say the least. agricultural export subsidies must be abolished immediately and without any compensation. as regards domestic agricultural aid, a distinction must be made between legitimate aid and aid which is aimed solely at export-oriented agribusiness. this means that the cap must also be examined in this comparison. we need a new international hierarchy of standards which balances trade interests on the one hand with social human rights and environmental and consumer standards on the other. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. this means that each country can and must decide for itself when, to what extent and at what speed it opens its market. public services must be protected from further liberalisation, in particular core sectors such as water supply, health and education must be excluded from international trade agreements. the trips agreement needs to be reformed. millions of people die every year because trips denies them access to essential medicines and instead helps pharmaceutical companies maximize their profits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the wto should accept that countries and their populations decide against the production and import of genetically modified organisms or hormone-producing meat: no trade rule of any kind should be allowed to impede this sovereign decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. instead of simply abolishing existing market regulation mechanisms, as in the case of sugar or bananas, and thus turning the price spiral far downwards, the commission should propose new public initiatives that help stabilise commodity prices. it's been said time and time again that this is not wto-compliant. the wto rules must be changed, and they can be changed if there is the political will to do so. i think that much more energy needs to be put into this, and the time is right.
the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the human rights situation in cambodia, laos and vietnam.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, i listened with great interest to honourable members' views in the debate and i very much welcome the strength of feeling that there is on human rights issues. the governments of cambodia, laos and vietnam can be under no illusion that the council takes human rights seriously. these governments are fully aware of the strength of feeling within the council, within the eu member states and within the european parliament. in july, i visited cambodia and laos where i attended the asean regional forum. i went and saw a project in cambodia which was taking vulnerable young people off the streets and doing absolutely terrific work. i also saw a project being supported by the uk government, which is providing training for police officers in cambodia to crack down on child sex tourism. i know that a lot of other eu member states are funding similar projects in other countries that are doing good work. i believe it is very important that we should be open and frank with governments where human rights abuses exist, but we should also offer words of encouragement where positive progress is made. i note that today in the media, there is a report that sixty new roman catholic priests were ordained in a mass ceremony in vietnam yesterday. that is a welcome development, but we should not forget that human rights abuses still exist in that country, as they do also in cambodia and in laos. we have had some very eloquent contributions explaining and cataloguing those human rights abuses. i hope that honourable members here today continue to take every opportunity to visit these countries to find out the situation for themselves and to raise directly their human rights concerns within the governments of those countries. when i was in cambodia, i certainly raised the issue of sam rainsy and his party directly with prime minister hun sen. at the asean regional forum, javier solana and i also discussed human rights issues. the council will continue to raise its concerns with these governments. this means being open, honest and frank where those governments are failing to live up to international standards. but we must base our concerns on authoritative information; we have to get our facts right. we must also recognise and encourage progress where it is made.
member of the commission. i would like to thank you for the debate and, above all, for the political emphasis and commitment with which the members and the european parliament express their support for the values and principles on which not only our common europe is built, but also every free human civilization which seeks to ensure development, human dignity and all that human life requires. i believe that with this approach, we are not only on the right side, but we are on the winning side of gradual change. it is evident that the situation is different in the three countries with the most specific information. on the other hand, it must be recognized that this situation stems from a past that is truly tragic. the developments of the past few decades show that the situation is much better, but far from what we consider satisfactory. in this context, the european commission, together with the presidency and the council, will continue its efforts, in constructive dialogue and political pressure, to democratise the situation in the three countries of south-east asia. i would like to answer the question on the provision of information and reports. the european commission is ready to provide information from the discussions of the european community joint working group for these countries and i am convinced that the drafting of a future clause, or the confirmation of a clause on human rights and democracy in our cooperation agreements, will also be an important contribution to these principles and values in international relations. i would like to mention one more example, which is also important from the point of view of the human dimension and dialogue (people to people communication). two weeks ago, i had the opportunity to attend the opening of the second meeting of eu and asean university rectors in leuven, near brussels. it was a very inspiring meeting, and it talks about how to open up space to improve not only dialogue, but also the environment for freedom and democracy in these countries. i am convinced that continuing such relations, for example by opening specific programmes and projects such as erasmus mundus to students from these countries, can make a significant contribution to better conditions in vietnam, laos and cambodia.
the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the joint debate on the request for an oral reply to the council on olympic peace by mr sifunakis, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-0084/2005 b6-0335/2005), the request for an oral reply to the council on development and sport by mrs maria martens, on behalf of the committee on development (o-0078/2005 b6-0340/2005) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on development and sport by mrs maria martens, on behalf of the committee on development (o-0079/2005 b6-0341/2005).
mr president, you are wrong about the rules of procedure. since you are not on the list of speakers but have already spoken on the rules of procedure, i suggest that perhaps minister pearson will take up your remark at the end of the debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. you have made a good proposal. as you said in your speech, it is an animal disease. the fact that it is now linked to a possible transfer must not cause us to get into a frenzy. we must also take account of the need to coordinate veterinary and human activities. but first, it is an animal disease. i therefore find the calm you are showing quite reasonable, because otherwise we may be drowning in the hustle and bustle of the day's work. the positive aspect of the proposal is that it settles the question of whether or not to vaccinate. you know - or i know a little better, because i have been in this parliament for a long time - that for years there have been debates here, in which the question has always been: should there be permanent vaccination or should there be prophylactic vaccination, based on the specific case of disease? we in parliament have always been in favour of the latter, that is to say, what you are now proposing. but it has always been linked to this fundamental question. the fact that a separation is now being made here is a merit you have earned with this proposal. that is why we support this proposal. we should also avoid using terms like "destroy" and "destroy" in this discussion. we are talking about animals and food, because animals are being converted into food. the images we have seen in recent years - from bse to foot-and-mouth disease to the plague of chickens and pigs - have also been bad for europe's cultural image in the world. so i think we're on the right track. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. the new breeds, which are intended for technical use and mass production, must be distinguished from the regionally adapted breeds, i.e. wild animals, which are partially carriers of the virus without becoming clinically ill. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must provide technical assistance and take precautions worldwide to keep animals healthy and thus protect us from the possible variation and mutation of viruses that can become dangerous to us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we had the opportunity to discuss this matter in the plenary on 25 october. it was a very objective discussion at the time, and you, commissioner, announced what you were going to do. you did it too; you have taken the opportunity to speak to other organisations and you have organised crisis exercises in europe, the results of which we shall probably have shortly. the debate is of course - and this has already been said - about the health of poultry and the need to protect that health. i was in china recently, and in china, as you know, there are 20 billion pieces of chicken. the chinese are terribly afraid of the spread of bird flu and they are doing a lot to stop it. but the question is whether we as europeans have advised countries like china, indonesia and vietnam in the past and now in a way that they can be prepared to respond to a possible outbreak of avian influenza. the chinese have now tried to develop vaccines against avian influenza, and they are also in the process of developing one for humans. i think it's great that they're turning away from the old non-vaccination policy and now they're doing an orderly vaccination policy in certain regions or around the hotspots. as a veterinarian, i have been called upon many times in lower saxony and elsewhere to deal with animal diseases. i know that the right way to do this is to have a vaccine policy with labelled vaccines, well labelled vaccines, if that's possible. i believe that this is also a way of doing things which is in line with what the animal welfare groups are calling for. one last point, and this was my last comment on october 25th: a pandemic is coming anyway. when it comes, science doesn't know. we should do everything we can to avoid panic, but we should also take all the measures we can to prevent the virus from spreading, mutating and then spreading to humans.
member of the commission. mr president, let me start by thanking mr van hecke, the rapporteur, for the hard work he has put into this dossier. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the members of all the committees involved. they have also made a major contribution to the work of parliament on this file. the proposal from the commission aims to implement at eu level the wto general council decision of 30 august 2003, allowing copies of patented medicines to be produced for export to countries in need. this decision represents a waiver from the normal rules of patent law, particularly those set out in the wto trips agreement. it has to be seen within the wider context of existing national and international frameworks for patent protection. the discussions in the wto leading up to the decision of 30 august were long and complex. the decision itself represents a delicate balance between the need to ensure access now to medicines for countries with public health problems, and the need to encourage development in the future of new medicines, through investment in research and innovation protected under the patent system. we have sought to reflect that balance in the commission’s proposal. as many of you will know, the decision itself is a temporary measure. it will remain in force until a permanent amendment is made to the trips agreement. the negotiations on such an amendment have not yet been successful, despite several deadlines having passed. the compulsory licensing issue thus remains on the agenda of the wto. however, that is no reason for us to delay: bringing our regulation into force as early as possible will allow countries in need and eu producers of pharmaceuticals to use the mechanism we are putting in place. indeed, all three institutions, parliament, the council and the commission, have supported the principle of early agreement on the regulation, and intensive informal discussions have been taking place with that in mind. while these discussions have not always been easy, they took place in a spirit of good cooperation, and i must congratulate mr van hecke again on the results which show how well the institutions can work together. i am very pleased that these discussions have resulted in a compromise package. i should say now that the commission could support such a package of amendments if it is voted through in its entirety and without any additions or subtractions. what is the commission’s proposal aiming to do? it sets out a mechanism in line with the wto decision so that companies in the eu can apply for a licence to manufacture, without the authorisation of the patent holder, pharmaceutical products for export to countries in need of medicines and facing public health concerns. we have tried to produce an instrument that will allow the compulsory licensing procedure of the wto decision to fit within the context of member states’ existing national patent law and the compulsory licensing procedures they already have under that law. an instrument at eu level implementing the wto decision has great symbolic value as an external demonstration of the eu’s commitment to the decision. at the same time, we have to respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and so avoid regulating specific details which can better be dealt with under national law or by the competent authority which is processing the licensing application. parliament’s work has resulted in some helpful clarification, particularly as regards an explanation of the involvement of non-governmental and international organisations. we have always envisaged such organisations as being potentially involved in any purchasing procedures, and able to make requests on behalf of an importing country with that country’s approval. of course it is unlikely that such organisations will themselves be manufacturing pharmaceuticals, but if they were they could simply apply for a licence under the regulation like any other manufacturer. another useful clarification has been improvement of the text relating to the possibility of using the eu’s scientific opinion procedure, or equivalent national procedures, to certify the safety and efficacy of medicines for export. this is not something regulated in the wto decision, indeed it lies outside that framework. but in order to assist importing countries we felt it was a necessary complement to the licensing mechanism. let me now turn to the overall scope of the regulation. the wto decision provides for export of medicines to wto members who are least-developed countries or who are developing countries with insufficient manufacturing capacity of their own. there is no specific restriction on the pharmaceutical products covered, although there is acknowledgement that they are required to address public health problems, since that is in the context of the decision. the commission originally took the view that we should reflect faithfully the scope of the decision as regards the countries eligible to receive exported medicines. that position was based on our assessment of the wto decision, which specifically covers wto members as beneficiary countries. i am pleased to say that since then we have accepted humanitarian arguments that all least-developed countries and certain low-income developing countries should be eligible, regardless of whether they are currently wto members. at the same time, to help ensure that the right medicines get to the right patients, non-wto members are also expected to make similar commitments to those required from wto members. this means they should notify what medicines are required and commit to preventing trade diversion if they are to receive products under the eu mechanism. another important issue is the question of remuneration for patent holders. i do not think there is any disagreement that patent holders should receive some remuneration for the licences granted without their authorisation. this is a normal principle of law. in the interests of a certain transparency for industry investing in the production of medicines, and as part of the overall compromise package, we could support the proposed formula for remuneration which still leaves some leeway for determination on a case-by-case basis. let me conclude at this point by reiterating that the commission remains very much in favour of the early adoption of this regulation, while respecting the overall objective of introducing a workable, transparent system which companies are able to use for the export of medicines to countries in need. i would call on parliament to support the compromise package which is on the table.
adopted by the commission on 27 june. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are dealing with a subject which at first sight seems simple and logical, but which, on closer examination, leads to considerable problems, even to the softening or cancellation of patent protection. i speak today on behalf of my colleague, mrs anja weisgerber, who cannot be here for personal reasons. the commission's proposal was followed by a call for compulsory licensing to be extended not only to the wto member states in need but also to more than 40 other countries in need. there is a cross-party agreement to extend the circle of eligible countries to non-wto countries as a political signal of support. but there are reasons for concern. despite the fact that we have made a very great effort to find and hopefully to strike a fair balance between the claims of the poor countries of the world and the legitimate patent protection interests of the licensees, there remains a high level of uncertainty. finally, who is in a position to control the unlabelling or relabelling of medicines and to prevent their reimportation back into the european union? is it the eu member states at national level, is it the commission, are it the beneficiary countries, industry or trade? are we not issuing a licence that will cause us considerable problems later? i am concerned about the current situation where illegal medicines are already being sold across all borders, through all channels of distribution - from the internet to conventional sales at the counter - and where huge profits are being made. i will take the liberty of asking the council and the commission at regular intervals what the figures are and how many compulsory licensing procedures have been initiated, and i hope to obtain valid data. i understand that the british presidency wants to take credit for this success. the epp group supports the proposal on patented medicines for developing countries.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. mr van hecke has made a considerable improvement in the commission's draft regulation by his amendment in the interests of the developing countries, and for that he should of course be thanked. however, my group has a problem with the regulation. it is intended to transpose and implement the decision of the wto general council of 30 august. the commission has already decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of medicinal products for human consumption. this is confirmed by renowned international organisations with experience in the fight against disease, such as médecins sans frontières and act up, and by practical experience in countries such as canada. the system of compulsory licences is cumbersome, too cumbersome to be able to provide development aid and effective aid in the fight against aids epidemics. even if the decision of 30 august weakens the implementation of the trips agreement in the health sector, we still do not believe that the fundamental human right to health is a priority. that is why it is problematic for my group to vote in favour of an improved development plan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must say honestly: "two souls live, oh, in my chest", to quote a great writer. on the one hand, six million people die every year from aids, tuberculosis and malaria - they come from the poorest countries in the world, and there is a lack of effective and affordable medicines. this is why the wto decided in november 2001 that member states can override the crossborder patent protection of medicines in emergencies - i emphasise: in emergencies. under certain conditions, therefore, domestic manufacturers of medicinal products or other generic manufacturers may apply for a compulsory licence which entitles them to produce cheaper copies of patented medicinal products. on the one hand, that's a positive. the other side is this: the research pharmaceutical industry invests a lot of money in functional and innovative preparations. there's research and development work. this work must and can be financed by patent protection. i therefore believe that the principle of patent protection for medicinal products should not be relaxed. drug research must continue to be worthwhile, as the development of new medicines is in the public interest. the granting of compulsory licences is therefore only really useful in exceptional cases. we also need to prevent abuse. the patent proprietor should therefore be granted certain information rights so that he can himself monitor compliance with the licence conditions and draw attention to infringements. we also need to know what quantities are to be delivered and to which countries. and we really must prevent cheap copies from being reimported back to europe. barriers must be created, for example by special labelling, packaging, colouring or shaping. i think that the proposal we are voting on tomorrow makes sense. he doesn't like either of us very much; so it's probably a good compromise.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the proposal for this regulation is designed to allow compulsory licensing of patents for the manufacture of medicinal products intended for countries with public health problems. it is regrettable that in the context of the debate some members - particularly in the committee responsible - have repeatedly tried to place the research-based pharmaceutical industry - and with it the patent system - under the unjustified general suspicion of indifference to the people in poorer regions. patents are not an obstacle to humanitarian action, on the contrary! patents are the prerequisite for innovative companies to take on high financial risks and invest billions in research and development. only through such investments can drugs be developed which, for example, can keep up with the constant changes of certain pathogens. this is good for us in europe, but also for people in all countries of the world. without patents, drugs and vaccines against many deadly diseases would never have been developed. these are medicines and vaccines that are available to all people today, including, of course, people in developing countries. forced licences are not the solution to combating diseases in developing countries. better control and prioritization could buy enough medicine with billions of dollars of misused development and humanitarian funds. if we are to take the lisbon strategy seriously, that is to say, if we are to promote research and development, we need effective patent protection which must not be arbitrarily weakened or abolished. trips may allow compulsory licences, but they do not have to be, because there are alternatives.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for his intensive work and also to say that my group agrees with the report. parliament has been consulting commissioners-designate since 1994. the importance of a thorough examination of candidates for the office of commissioner was made clear to the public in 2004 at the latest, especially the fact that the european parliament is not a government's mini-machine. the report will be an important tool for parliament in the future. this will make his right to elect the commission more precise. in particular, i would like to emphasise that we will have clear criteria for assessing candidates, namely unquestionable independence, expertise and, above all, full disclosure of information on financial interests. if parliament follows these guidelines in future, it will certainly be beneficial, above all, to the credibility of both institutions in the eyes of the public.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. you gave a great speech. but i am not sure that you have spoken to all those concerned in the relevant economic circles. what you have said may be true for companies like maersk, the small company that just bought pno. but i and my colleague, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, are primarily concerned with the question of small and medium-sized shipping companies, which are in a very different situation from pno, which was bought by maersk, or whoever you want to take from the big ones. we believe that regulation no 4056 cannot be repealed without replacement. of course, it has to be adapted, commissioner. it's perfectly clear. we all know that. it must be adapted and the main objective must be to adapt it in such a way that it is particularly small and mediumsized enterprises that are able to make technical arrangements and exchange information in order to see how they can best survive in the world market. they have gone beyond that, commissioner. there are good proposals from a group called the european liner affairs association. these proposals include a significantly reduced exemption but a clear provision for the protection of small and mediumsized enterprises. i would just like to remind you of the proposal to actually open discussion forums involving both shipping companies and shippers and other players in the sector. we do not want price fixing, we do not want any malicious cartels. you must never accuse my colleague kratsa of that! what we want are technical agreements which will enable small and mediumsized enterprises to survive in the shark-infested waters of the big corporations and alliances. if we allow for such discussion forums, there is a chance that we can actually sustain the small and medium-sized shipping industry. we simply have to see that the world sector is dominated by the big guys on the one hand; on the other hand, we have to fear attacks from the korean and chinese shipping lines. we must do something about this for european shipping, commissioner!
member of the commission. mr president, i simply want to say briefly that i agree with most of the analyses made by the honourable members. the regulatory framework is applied very unevenly. competition also operates on the basis of very different national schemes, which are often insufficient. that is why, in the event of non-application of the rules, the commission is obliged to take the states to the court of justice. you are aware that several cases are pending before the court of justice; you also know that i am in constant contact with the national regulators, who meet within the framework of the european regulators' organisation. this exchange of views is extremely important because it is a bit of an exchange of good practice and it is also an opportunity to put pressure on each other. plus, the regulators are helping me with the room rates, which are very high. i must make it clear to you that the commission cannot impose prices itself but it can push for a downward revision of prices. this has been done by setting up a price comparison website in our member states, and since its inception it has been visited by thousands of consumers every day. since it has also been in existence, we have seen many price drops in many countries. as promised, a price review will take place within six months to see how things are going and where the talks with national regulators are going. i told the honourable members that the discussion had begun on the current regulatory framework and its possible reform. this discussion will go on for a few more months. the very important report before us today is a first contribution from parliament. i am awaiting further debates and proposals from parliament and from the main stakeholders, and it is on the basis of these analyses, these suggestions and these proposals that i will draw up a summary from spring onwards and then discuss a possible reform of the regulatory framework, in order to adapt it to technological developments and to fine-tune it in the light of the very variable situation in each member state.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr zsolt lászló becsey, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 77/388/eec on the common system of value added tax as regards the period of application of the minimum standard rate (com (2005) 0136 c6-0113/2005 2005/0051 (cns)) (a6-0323/2005), the report by mr zsolt lászló becsey, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on the system for reimbursing value added tax to taxable persons resident in another member state rather than in the country of residence pursuant to directive 77/388/eec (com (2004) 287) c07-0625/2005 2005/080 (cns) 0724-0365), and the commission's attempt to answer the question on the possibility of applying a value added tax to services which are not subject to vat in accordance with the country of residence (com (2005) 0346/2005) b6-034210 (cns)) and the proposal for a directive on the assessment of the economic effects of the application of directive 1999/388/ec on the internal market (com (2005) 0346-06-06-06-06).
mr whittaker, please note that there are worldwide surveys that say europe is the most attractive region in the whole world. most people in the world would rather live in europe than america. so the european system can't be that bad!
the commission has already done so. it is surprising and disappointing - as my predecessor has already said - that we are dealing with a subject four weeks before the end of the year which should have been completed long ago. the special scheme of a reduced vat rate, introduced in 1999 for three years, covered only a few member states and a few labour-intensive services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. without a new decision, this scheme would be definitively terminated at the end of this year. it is common ground that the expectations associated with the introduction of the special scheme have not been met or have been only partially met in the past. the commission clearly established in 2003 that the reduced vat rates did not translate into reduced prices and that they had practically no appreciable impact on the employment situation. in this context, my group has made its agreement to the joint inter-party motion for a resolution subject to the fulfilment of several conditions: first, the extension is a one-off, but only until the end of next year. secondly, the commission will initiate a full investigation into the effectiveness of the measure. thirdly, after the extension period, that is to say from the end of next year, only those sectors will be able to benefit from the reduced vat where the reduction actually has a positive effect on prices and employment. then, however, the special arrangement is permanent. other non-effective sectors are definitively excluded from the special scheme. new member states are also allowed to apply the reduced vat rate, so that there are no distortions of competition in the eu. we are asking for a separate vote on paragraph 2 of the joint motion for a resolution, because the regulation has been in force for a long time and the commission report mentioned is, in our opinion, sufficiently detailed and meaningful.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is well aware of the concerns raised by honourable members in relation to the slovak police force. given the complexity and sensitivity of the matter and the time needed for the commission to take a position, further time is required to analyse the issue and acquire objective and impartial information. the commission services responsible have been in contact with the permanent representation of the slovak republic here in brussels and they are seeking the required information. in addition, the commission was informed extensively on the matter by the european confederation of police. i regret that we cannot give you a more complete answer at this stage. the commission is doing all it possibly can to reach conclusions on this matter as soon as possible and it will promptly report to you on its findings. the commission would therefore be ready to reply to the oral question at a subsequent part-session, should parliament decide to add it to its agenda.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i am not sure that this is the case. my group, the greens, supported the debate we are having today. we refer to information from slovakia, in particular from the european police confederation, which has been available since june. we do not see this as an internal slovak matter and are deeply concerned. we therefore urge you to investigate the allegations as soon as possible. the fact that the police are subject to military jurisdiction in slovakia is clearly contrary to the council of europe's rules and police ethics. the equality of police officers and soldiers is a violation of the geneva convention and the united nations convention! the civilian status of the police is an achievement of democracy in europe, an achievement for which we have fought, especially in the balkans, when police officers were involved in military action during ethnic conflicts. if the reports before us are correct, we must call on the slovak government - and also on parliament - to reverse this error of judgement, this relapse into a period of politics incompatible with democratic principles in europe, and to return to the democratic community. even police officers have the right to demonstrate! the freedom of the police to demonstrate is a sign of the freedom of our society and democracy. we therefore ask the commission to analyse the allegations and to take a position as soon as possible.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not there are two areas. in slovakia, the police have apparently been returned to military rule. this is remilitarisation and cannot be accepted. police and military are just two different pairs of boots. however, it is precisely this mixing of civil and military when it comes to the european union's military and police operations abroad that is typical of the european union. the future austrian presidency has even defined this as one of its priorities. secondly, in this context, the question is the restriction of the trade union rights of police officers. this is also unacceptable. this parliament is always very much involved when it comes to human rights violations in countries outside the european union. but this house is also concerned with clearly identifying clear violations of human rights within the european union. the commissioner's statement was not sufficient. this is where you need to improve, this is where you need to bring more information. we should also clearly identify human rights violations in other countries. i will give you an example from germany. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. point 4f concerns the composition of the management board of european agencies. the text reads: 'parliament, for its part, should nominate two representatives to the board of directors'. i suggest that it should read: 'parliament, for its part, should designate two representatives to the board of directors'. what is the reason? parliament, as part of the legislature, should not claim to have two official representatives in all subordinate executive agencies. the european parliament should, however, reserve the right to send experts of its confidence to selected agencies, such as the european environment agency in copenhagen or the observatory on racism and xenophobia in vienna. my motion is supported by the author of this paragraph, mr florenz of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and by the rapporteur on regulatory agencies, mr papastamkos. i'm asking for backup.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a request for wednesday's agenda. it refers to the statements made by iranian president ahmadinejad. i believe that the statements made by the president of iran in recent days should be the occasion for you, as president of this house, or the president of the council, to make a statement on this. i think it is unacceptable that a head of state should make statements, more or less bluntly and openly, which call into question the existence of a state, of an entire people, and which call for the breaking of peace in the region (applause) and for the opening of the door to violence in the region. i would like to say on behalf of my group - and i think the applause in this house shows that i may perhaps be allowed to speak for all colleagues in an exceptional way - that someone who argues in the same way as the iranian president against a state like israel is violating the fundamental rights and rules of the international community, and i think that a multinational parliament like ours should reject this in the strongest possible terms. we expect the council to do the same for the heads of state or government council! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to focus on the three main points of this directive: the legal basis, the ban on cadmium and the collection objectives. the reduction and prevention of waste from batteries is a priority of this directive. it should not be overlooked that this is also a piece of product-oriented legislation for the internal market. the sole legal basis, article 175, could lead to different standards and thus to distortions of competition and the market. that is why the liberals support the dual legal basis of articles 95 and 175. we are also following the recommendation of the legal affairs committee. the committee on the environment and the council have agreed to a ban on cadmium and mercury only for portable batteries. our group does not support any further marketing bans and no extension of the cadmium ban to other areas such as cordless tools or medical devices. of course, there are alternatives to nickel-cadmium for the much-quoted power tools. i say this particularly to mr schlyter and also to mrs westlund. but every technology has advantages and disadvantages. in the case of rechargeable batteries and accumulators, which are already a very small waste, we must also take into account other characteristics: energy efficiency, life span and, of course, price to the consumer. the fact that an alternative is available on the market does not automatically mean that it is an adequate substitute. as regards cadmium in particular, the amount of cadmium we absorb in europe via our environment is well below what the who considers to be a health hazard. by the way, only about one percent of batteries are made from it. let me conclude by addressing the objectives of the fund. the council's targets of 25% after six years and 45% after ten years are not very ambitious. the 40% and 60% we agreed in committee are not realistic. in some member states, the rates are below 10%. in germany, after more than ten years of intensive efforts, we have reached 35%. it is therefore important that we review the collection targets in six years. we should draw on the best practices in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank hans blokland for the good, thorough and careful report on the second reading. the fundamental problem with batteries and accumulators is not their energy, but their components, cadmium, lead and mercury. the toxicity of these components and their environmental impact are generally well known. recycling is my number one priority, not disposal. another priority is substitution with less toxic ingredients wherever technically possible. the amendment now further reduces, reduces and in some cases prohibits the use of ingredients and their percentage by weight in batteries of all kinds. i think that is the greatest benefit of this directive. the collection rates are admittedly very high. the demands on industry, population and trade are also high. i take this challenge extremely positively. the learning programme implemented therein raises environmental awareness and behaviour among our fellow citizens. although the high rates cannot be achieved everywhere and at all times, the requirement documents the world's leading environmental awareness and action in the european union. whether it makes sense to define collection targets in terms of weight or quantity is, i believe, a matter for academic debate. i agree with the common legal basis under articles 95 and 175 of the treaties and with the common position of the council. the fundamental question for me is whether, in the next few years, by promoting research and by promoting modern technology, we will be able to replace a large part of our conventional batteries, for example, with fuel cells. i hope that this directive will then be a model which will be obsolete, as will the problematic substances.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr hans blokland, for his work. the protection of the environment is important and my stated objective as an environmental politician. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. specifically, i'm here today to discuss the ban on nickel-cadmium batteries in power tools. an absolute ban at this stage or after a transitional period of four years - as proposed by the rapporteur - is going too far. instead, i support the common position and amendment no 45 by mr krahmer, both of which provide for a review of the exemption of nickel-cadmium batteries in power tools from the ban after 4 and 7.5 years respectively. the commission will then examine whether there are equivalent alternatives and whether a ban on nickel-cadmium batteries is reasonable and justified. however, this is not yet the case from the current point of view. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. however, these alternatives are not considered equivalent to nickel-cadmium at this stage. this is evidenced by the following differences: nickel-cadmium batteries have a longer life than nickel-metal hydride batteries and are less prone to failure. nickel-cadmium batteries can be charged more quickly and discharge much more slowly when not in use. also, nickel-metal hydride batteries do not work at temperatures below 10° celsius. manufacturers are constantly developing new technologies in an effort to consolidate their market position. but an absolute ban now or in four years' time would be counterproductive. manufacturers would have to switch their production to a technology that had not yet matured. the financial resources required for this would then be lacking in the field of research and development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this cannot be our objective. i would like to conclude by saying that i am in favour of the dual legal basis, article 95 and article 175.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to start by thanking piia-noora kauppi and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the efficiency and speed shown on this dossier. this proposal is an essential complement to the markets in financial instruments directive – known as ‘mifid’, which is most probably the most important piece of eu legislation recently adopted in the field of european securities law. the proposal is a simple one, namely to postpone the date of entry into force of the directive, with half of this extra time for industry to prepare, the other half for member state transposition. this proposal responds to a justified and legitimate request expressed by the industry and supported by all member states and securities regulators. it is clear that additional time is needed to put in place the necessary arrangements so that the mifid will work from the start. the commission proposed, in june 2005, the extension of the transposition deadline for member states for six months and we added a further six months’ deadline for the industry to apply the directive in practice. a series of improvements and clarifications concerning the various deadlines have been made, during negotiations in the european parliament and the council, to the text proposed by the commission, and cooperation has been excellent between the three institutions. the european parliament and council propose that the extension becomes nine plus nine months, instead of six plus six. the commission can go along with this, particularly because the technical implementing measures for the mifid are essential for the effective application of this directive. these technical rules are complex and will not be adopted before may 2006. member states and investment firms need to have the complete picture of the new framework, including the technical implementing details, before they can effectively apply them. let me stress that adoption of the ‘mifid extension’ directive is a matter of urgency and we need a single reading. if the eu institutions are not able to conclude this debate quickly, or if a second reading is needed, the mifid will enter into force in april next year and no one will be ready. there will be a lot of uncertainty because of the legal void that will be created, since the old isd regime will be abrogated and the new regime will enter into force without the new mifid having been transposed. we will have new rules without the necessary technical implementing details – not a good formula! this codecision proposal is about extending the date of entry of mifid, not about the wider question of the powers of the council and the european parliament in the comitology procedures. this house knows my views on the comitology issue and how important it is to resolve these matters as soon as possible in a balanced and fair way. discussions are under way in the council and i understand the european parliament is working on its negotiating position. i welcomed this and i hope we can arrive at a good outcome as early as possible next year. so, with the greatest respect, and in full understanding of parliament’s overall position, i consider that the amendments put forward on comitology and on the sunset clause are neither necessary nor appropriate in the context of this proposal. and, as a matter of legal conformity, they do not explain any article of the text. the european parliament’s requests for additional co-legislator powers are known. they are already recorded in the capital requirements directive recently adopted. the broad substance of amendment 2 is already included in the original mifid, and amendment 4 merely advances the date for the expiry of the commission’s delegated powers by 29 days. so i would urge you to consider again these amendments, which the commission would prefer ideally to be withdrawn before the vote. i understand that the council would also prefer this outcome. the commission believes that a solution for this matter can only be found through a revision of the comitology decision. as a result of parliament’s justified persistence, the council has taken up work on the revision of this decision through a ‘friends of the presidency’ group. progress is being made and i reiterate my invitation to parliament to set out clearly its expectations and proposals for the ongoing discussions. that said, the commission will not stand in the way of an adoption at first reading of this proposed directive. should parliament maintain its amendments on comitology, the commission will accept them in the interests of ensuring a smooth transposition and implementation of the mifid. the commission, from its side, will assist wherever it can to ensure that a real sense of urgency is given to this matter. the commission has long recognised the need for a solution to be found and i believe the conditions are now ripe for this. i look forward to hearing your comments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. the lamfalussy case has been raised here on several occasions. the british presidency should be thanked for its own efforts, because the commitment of the british, whose country is considered the cradle of democracy - as mr karas has already said - to combat a point which has already been adopted in the basel ii directive by the commission, the council and parliament is astonishing. but as someone who wants to strengthen the rights of parliament and fights for them, one can only be grateful, because every further action in this form is increasingly welding together the parliament in the view that it is important to remain firm on this point. it is a question of how we will deal with the lamfalussy procedure in the future. the question is how seriously the council is taking this matter. if the british presidency had taken any steps towards this - for example, in the friends of the presidency round on the new interinstitutional agreement - and had spent less energy on making it happen in this form, we would be a long way ahead today. addressed to the commission: we have included a date in the basel ii directive, namely 1 april 2008. until then, parliament supports the lamfalussy procedure and the comitology procedure. we want to continue to support them. but until then, we need to make a deal. for those of you who haven't heard, we will incorporate this sunset clause into all other policies. we will not confine ourselves to the commission's proposals on whether or not certain details have been changed, but we will take the liberty of looking at a directive as a whole when it reaches parliament. we hope and count on the commission to intervene in the council accordingly. i am looking particularly to the austrian presidency to ensure that we finally arrive at a solution which is fair to all the institutions and which will allow us to work objectively again.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i welcome the fact that we will be adopting the directive on energy efficiency and energy services tomorrow. the compromise reached with the council is certainly supported by all the groups in this house, and there is no doubt about that. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and staff very warmly. it was a great collaboration and it certainly contributed a lot to the result we got. this result is certainly below the commission's proposal and certainly below parliament's position at first reading. i would like to say that the result is clear. member states have to save at least 9% of their energy over nine years. this is less than the parliament's target of 11.5%. moreover, these objectives are not binding, unlike the commission and parliament. i think it is right, however, that we should not let this compromise fail. we have not been able to agree on binding targets, but the directive does contain specific guidelines for national action. from mid-2007, member states will have to draw up and send to brussels energy efficiency action plans on a regular basis, i.e. first every four years and then every three years. these action plans include member states' actions to achieve the objectives, such as building renovation programmes, the promotion of energy-efficient appliances, the promotion of energy audits, car-free days or large-scale education or information campaigns. the public sector should be given special attention in the action plans, as the directive calls for it to be a role model. the directive also aims to set new energy efficiency standards across europe through indicators and benchmarks. we have a huge savings potential which must finally be put to better use. 20-30% of today's energy consumption can be saved without economic loss. this is equivalent to the energy consumption of six member states, namely austria, belgium, denmark, finland, greece and the netherlands combined. in times of high energy prices, it is completely incomprehensible that this potential is not being used more. it is also noteworthy that this result was very difficult to achieve and that a number of member states were not prepared to go further. this directive must and can lead to a real energy efficiency offensive. we have a considerable catch-up on the energy demand side. while a few member states, such as denmark, have exemplary savings policies with binding targets, other member states have to start from almost zero. the directive also aims to create a genuine market for energy services, services offered by distributors and sellers of energy and/or independent service providers. another important effect of the new european law will be to increase transparency for consumers, for example, individual meters for energy consumption, a regular billing system that is oriented to consumption and allows a comparison with one's own consumption and that of a comparison group. commissioner piebalgs, you have made energy efficiency your priority. that is extremely welcome. this directive is a very important element in such a strategy. now it will be about implementation. i hope that the commission will also look critically at the member states to ensure that the directive is really being implemented satisfactorily.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think it's great that we've managed to reach a compromise that has improved the situation. it is true that energy efficiency is a very important instrument for solving europe's energy problem, but it is not the only means. we must take care to find the right ways here, and that has now been done brilliantly in the compromise from the first to the second reading. i would like to thank mrs rothe very much for that. it has succeeded in making things more realistic, in taking differences seriously and in not having the same goals for everyone. it is very important that we take seriously the differences in the member states, the opportunities and the differences in the various sectors, fields and markets. i am therefore very pleased that the benchmarking approach has been included here and that the commission has been given the task of developing it further to take account of the different motivations. we need incentives to create transparency, we need less red tape, because data is already available in many areas, we need market-oriented approaches, because suppliers of energy-efficient equipment then have a selling point and a vested interest in ensuring that the energy efficiency markets in the individual countries are not further fragmented but become more uniform. you would also have a tool that is easy to use because you can compare the sales figures of the respective submarkets with the sales figures of the previous year. there is a huge opportunity to work towards a common goal in the field of energy efficiency. we can now try to move this process forward in a different way and perhaps even more quickly, because we are focusing on the self-interest of each of the parties concerned and because we are not putting everything on the same page, but are also treating different things differently. i hope that we can achieve a greater effect in the end than we might have achieved with centralised policies.
member of the commission. mr president, i am pleased to contribute to this debate on company taxation. i read with great interest the report from the committee on economic and monetary affairs and i participated in an extremely interesting hearing which the committee held recently on the subject. i am particularly pleased that the draft report is so supportive of the current commission company taxation policy and i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bersani, on this thorough piece of work. the draft report includes an excellent summary of the current situation as regards the taxation of companies in the internal market. its conclusions are very similar to those of the commission. the main objective of a common consolidated corporate tax base is to remove the remaining tax obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market. these obstacles were catalogued by the commission in its company tax report in 2001, and the commission’s response was to promote the introduction in the longer term of a comprehensive solution: a common consolidated corporate tax base. this project has recently been given additional support during the review of the lisbon strategy. to achieve the lisbon goals – growth, jobs, competitiveness and investment – and to promote administrative simplification and cost reductions, we need appropriate tax policies. in my opinion, the common consolidated corporate tax base will go a long way in providing the eu with the tools it needs to progress. in october the commission adopted a communication that outlined the base on which taxation and customs policies could contribute to the lisbon strategy. one such measure is to present a community legislative measure for the common consolidated corporate tax base by 2008. i know that it is an ambitious timetable, but i understand that you are proposing an even more ambitious one for 2007. i am pleased that mr bersani’s report is so supportive of some of the more radical elements of the common consolidated corporate tax base, such as consolidation and the sharing of the consolidated tax base between individual member states. i am equally pleased that the report supports the commission’s position that the new tax base should be optional for companies and that the report avoids the trap of becoming involved in tax rates. our current work is directed at the tax base and does not touch upon the tax rate. as you know, not all member states are currently enthusiastic supporters of the common consolidated corporate tax base. our aim, however, is to have a proposal for all 25 member states, so your report will be an important additional tool for the commission to use in future debate on the subject as we attempt to persuade the current dissenters.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank mr bersani for his cooperation in the preparation of this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this applies both to the single tax base for business taxation and to the single corporate tax in europe, which is a recurring theme in the debate. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, where do i see particular problems? i believe that when people talk about a tax base today, they will almost inevitably talk about the level of tax rates in the member states tomorrow. we reject that! the harmonization of the tax base requires a profound intervention in the competence of national tax policies. we reject that too! if we want to create a benchmark for european companies, we have to take into account that companies, such as dax companies, already operate according to international accounting standards, which we have to accept. the commissioner, when you are conducting tax policy at european level, you must also know that the competence in tax policy is of course not far behind, if you look at the ec treaty. that too must be taken into account. finally, if we think of tomorrow's judgment of the european court of justice in the marks & spencer case, it must be clearly emphasized that the sphere of influence of brussels is now apparently being extended further and further by the case law of the european court of justice in luxembourg. this is also part of this debate, and i stress that it would be a mistake to turn the community of european union law into a community of european union law. i think that is unacceptable.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think it is overdue that the subject of europe-wide harmonization should finally be brought up in the field of corporate taxation. the combination of 25 different tax systems in the eu, which differ not only in tax rates but also in the way in which profits are measured, has led to one result in particular over the last 10-15 years: the share of corporate taxes in the financing of public budgets is decreasing and a growing part of the taxes is being imposed on the dependent average earner or on the consumer, which is the worst solution in terms of social and economic policy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the taxpayer is able to pay the tax on the basis of the taxable amount. in addition to this kind of tax dumping, the parallelism of tax systems has also set in motion a race to lower the tax rates themselves. the corporate tax rate, for example, has fallen by a total of 15 percentage points since the end of the 1980s on average in the old eu. the fact that these are by no means just nominal cuts is shown, for example, by a long-term study by the university of mannheim, which shows that the effective tax rate of the 50 largest european companies has fallen from 36% in 1988 to only 31% in 2000. that's billions of public money being given away and squandered in this way! the top tax dump in europe is, incidentally, not eastern europe or ireland, but the so-called high-tax country of the federal republic of germany, where a tax reform introduced by the then schröder government, justified by the fact that there is this tax competition throughout europe, completely stopped the revenue from corporation tax. only eu-wide tax harmonisation can stop the madness of profit-seeking corporations increasingly withdrawing from public financing, and of middle and low-income earners - and even pensioners and the unemployed - having to pay for the losses through consumption taxes. i do not think it is enough to harmonize the tax base. what we urgently need is a europe-wide minimum corporate tax rate of at least 40% on a broad tax base. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon.
the commission has already done so. we are talking today about a uniform basis of assessment in taxation. this is certainly a welcome principle, particularly with regard to small and mediumsized enterprises, and in particular with a view to making life easier for them in the single market. we cannot always make a strict distinction between the tax base and the amount of tax, because the tax base certainly has an impact on the tax system and on internal balances. this is certainly something to be taken into account in the commission's future action. we do not want to see a certain convergence of the various tax systems through the back door. i believe that this is also in the commission's own best interests in order to make progress with the member states. finally, i would like to make it quite clear to my group that we are in favour of tax competition. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. in this way europe would become a high tax area, and we do not want that. i would like to make one further point: how do we arrive at a uniform basis of assessment? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. whether these systems are good or bad and how they are implemented, i shall leave that to the present. in any case, this is a process which has so far been largely unaffected by european politics. it is all the more surprising when politicians say that this system should be used as a basis for a uniform assessment. if that were to happen - and i warn against going down that road in parliament, the council and the commission - it would mean the surrender of politics and the abandonment of essential competences in this area. this can't be the way!
if we were to agree, it would mean that it would be discussed on wednesday evening, amendments could be tabled by 10 a.m. on wednesday morning and the report itself would be voted on on thursday. we have now heard a word of it. now i'm gonna have to get one.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by giovanni pitella and valdis dombrovskis, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2006, as amended by the council (all items) (14864/2005 c6 0415/2005 2005/2001 ((bud)) and the letters of amendment no 1/2005 (14862/2005 c6-0413/2005), no 2/2005 (14863/2005 c6 0414/2005) and no 3/2005 (0000/2005 c6 0000/2005) on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2006 (a6-0396/2005), the report by reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the adoption of the report on the implementation of the budgetary flexibility instrument for the external policies of the european union for the financial year 2005 (a6-037/2005 (a7-049/2005)) (com (2005) 0126 - c7-0492/2005 (cod)) and the interinstitutional agreement of the european union on the budgetary discipline of the european union (a7-049/2005) (com (2005) 0126 - c7-06-06-06-06-06-06-06-06-064)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am presenting to you today a report on the decision of the parliament and the council to use the flexibility instrument for the external policies of the european union, on the basis of point 24 of the interinstitutional agreement. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur-general, mr giovanni pittella, and the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr janusz lewandowski, for their great efforts and for the success they have achieved, particularly for the parliament's delegation. let me also say to the commissioner and to the presidency of the council: this procedure was certainly not easy in its various stages. if there are difficulties in the course of the negotiation, it is right that everyone should return to the path of reason together. we have a common responsibility towards the european citizens for the common project of the union, the citizens and the states, and we must make this clear in budgetary policy, both internally and externally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has been pointed out that parliament wanted to use the whole of this negotiation on this difficult overall package to establish a link with the discussion and decision-making on the financial perspective after 2007. we have always wanted to negotiate these areas independently, otherwise we would not be debating the 2006 budget today and voting on it on thursday. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the next financial year, which is to be submitted to the council in the form of a proposal for a regulation, is a very important one, and i would like to ask the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget. i would like to make this point again very clearly and calmly. i would also like to point out, with regard to the use of the flexibility instrument, that the european union did not introduce this instrument until the entry into force of agenda 2000. this was done in response to the european parliament's urging in the negotiations following the berlin summit to implement this flexibility instrument. and look, we're using it for the sixth time! perhaps this is also a clear sign for the council that many of the proposals and ideas of the parliament - both in the last financial perspective and in the current negotiations - are not so foolish, but can make an important contribution to the european union's ability to react more quickly and spontaneously in the course of the annual budgetary procedures. without the implementation of the flexibility instrument in 2000, many external policies in the form of the european union's external action programme would not have been launched. it is right that in this context, after difficult negotiations, we have decided to provide initially 100 million euros for the reconstruction of iraq, 95 million from the flexibility instrument for the countries affected by the tsunami, 40 million for the acp states affected by the reform of the sugar market and finally 40 million euros for the common foreign and security policy - a total of 275 million euros. i would also point out that the relevant paragraph of the interinstitutional agreement makes it very clear that, strictly speaking, the text of the interinstitutional agreement would have made a lot more than eur 400 million available to us for the use of the flexibility instrument this year. in this respect, the agreement on the use of the flexibility instrument of eur 275 million also means that we are moving towards each other, and i ask parliament to approve this report on the use of the flexibility instrument in conjunction with the 2006 budget as it stands. let me make it clear at this point that parliament, in the course of the negotiations on the financial perspective, has put forward a proposal on how we can act in the future more flexibly, albeit strictly on the basis of budgetary discipline, and that the question of a globalisation fund is not the only one on the agenda, but that we must react more quickly and more consistently in many important categories of european budgetary policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, when british prime minister blair, as president-in-office of the council, says that there will be a deal in december or that there will be no agreement under the austrian or finnish presidency, that is actually a threat of a blockade. i have noted with satisfaction that in interviews parliament is, so to speak, used as an argument in this context, following the pattern: if the council does not agree, then the decision on the budget falls into the hands of parliament. parliament is ready to do so! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. we too believe that we have succeeded in reaching a reasonable and responsible compromise. we have been guided by the objective of maintaining spending discipline and yet showing political will. i think we've got it. the mobilization of the eur 275 million flexibility instrument gives us the scope to help the tsunami victims to rebuild their countries, to support the reconstruction of iraq and to cushion the new sugar market order. i am equally pleased that we have succeeded in doing more for youth and education in the codecision programme, because that too is about political will. our strategy away from oil, towards more renewable energy, towards research, towards small and medium-sized enterprises, but also towards culture is exactly what reaches directly to the people on the ground and also to their hearts. so i'm glad we negotiated in that spirit. if we are now talking about commitment appropriations of 1.09% in the 2006 budget, then this offers us the chance of a proper basis for the further financial perspective. we are thus moving in numbers ahead of the proposal put forward by the luxembourg presidency this summer. i would like to remind you, however, that we are facing difficult negotiations in the council on the financial perspective. i urge you to ensure that not only is there a common european spirit, as in the case of the 2006 budget, but that the council in particular is aware that what is at stake is our common europe and the further development of this europe, an agreement that takes account of both the new countries and the possibilities of making europe fit for the future, in order to give young people and ourselves a chance on the world market with new ecological products. the negotiations which are about to take place must not be seen by the public as an ugly quarrel, but there must be a common understanding that we are negotiating in a european spirit for our common europe. that is why i am calling on france, the united kingdom, germany, sweden and the netherlands to step up and really reach an agreement that will make our common future better and not contribute to europe's ugly image.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is clear that where the european parliament has co-decision powers, good policy is achieved for european citizens, and that where the council puts national interests first, there are difficulties. the present debate also shows that the european parliament has been very forward-looking in european agricultural policy and that, on parliament's initiative, export subsidies have been reduced. in cancún, fischler and lamy, at the instigation of the european parliament, proposed the complete suspension of these export subsidies. we have also promoted rural development through the budget and the codecision procedure and we have been working on the qualification of agricultural policy. this is something that some people - especially the british government, which is now proposing cuts - should put in their books: namely, that this reversal will invalidate the qualification that the european parliament has made in this area, including budgetary policy, and that the modern agricultural policy based on rural development will be reversed, and this will be at the expense of the new members of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. today, everyone in this house is again in arms and proud of themselves and this house. i have to add substantive criticism to the congratulatory speech, namely that the second reading in the committee on budgets was held without documents, that we took decisions on demand and that cuts and rearrangements of appropriations are no longer comprehensible and were. i am surprised to see that in foreign policy, ngos and democracy programmes have seen significant increases, even historic highs, while there have been cuts almost everywhere else. the commission has proposed cuts of over eur 150 million in the structural funds during the negotiations in the council and in the committee on budgets, and then it was still eur 70 million. reason: lack of implementation in the countries. i am now looking at the programme of cuts and wondering why the commission and the commissioner have lost the courage to do what is right and sensible. the current cuts in domestic and foreign policy are concentrated on areas where the money could be used. i'm really being very critical here. we will be watching closely to see whether the funds remaining in the structural funds are actually being used up. i find this approach regrettable because it has shown once again that we cannot trust the trustees. i therefore urge that such things should not happen again. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the financing of the so-called foreign and security policy in the eu is sometimes completely dubious. the eu, military and police operations use funds from completely different budget headings. the so-called flexibility instrument will provide an additional eur 40 million for the cfsp. my question is: what exactly is this 40 million euro to be used for? the eupol-kinshasa mission is funded by the european development fund, which provides development assistance of eur 4.3 million. the amis mission in sudan, including the military training component, is jointly funded by ten member states, and also by the african peace facility fund. the eupm in bosnia and herzegovina shall be partly financed from the commission's budget. the althea operation in bosnia is financed through the so-called athena mechanism, which is undemocratic and without parliamentary control. mr brok is now proposing that this area be increased from 100 million to 300 million. you know that the treaty of nice prohibits an independent military budget for the european union. so leave the tricks in that area!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the negotiations on the 2006 budget, and even more so the discussions on the financial perspective, show clearly that the council is acting like a chopper. the council is giving the european union more and more powers, but at the same time it wants to pay less money. the council represents the member states. member states want the eu to become more active in the common foreign and security policy, to fight terrorism and crime, to subsidize agriculture, to pursue environmental and consumer protection policies, to provide development aid, etc. an endless catalogue. he's getting older and older, and everybody knows that it costs money, it costs a lot of money. the council has therefore been asked to adopt the simple observation that more powers cost more money and less powers cost less money. what you are doing is irresponsible, demanding more powers and spending less money. reform the spending structure, that would be good for all of us.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to make just a few remarks. i've already done some budget consulting. but none of them have been as embarrassing as this year's, although i thought that the previous experience could not be surpassed. when i look at the way the budgetary procedure has gone in 2006 and the way the preparations for the next financial framework are going, i wonder, mr president of the council, and i ask you to convey this to your prime minister, why he gave such a fiery speech in brussels at the end of june this year. the words were beautiful, the deeds are not there. they are not only moderate, they are simply not there! i am glad that the british presidency of the council has learned in the course of this budgetary procedure that there is a confident parliament here. i hope you'll take that with you and make it a permanent part of your thinking. the europe you imagine, where a few heads of state and government declare and direct where it should go, and the commission and parliament are just a decorative accessory that you have to put up with - that europe no longer exists! if you have learned that lesson, then i would be very satisfied with the british presidency of the council. i am also critical, madam commissioner, of the fact that the commission's role in the budgetary procedure should be reconsidered. it is not possible for the european parliament to act as a protector and guardian of the commission and to feel that it is being left in the lurch by the commission every time it reconsiders its position under pressure from the council. we should also think about this very carefully, so that we can achieve something together. the fact that additional funds have been made available could have been achieved with a little less effort, but sometimes presidencies need a little longer to understand and support things. but parliament is patient and takes its time, because we also want to do something about the council's educational policy. i would like to say very clearly, mr president-in-office, that the interinstitutional agreement has proved its worth. we agreed on a set of rules, and we made sure you followed them, and that was the right approach. i would also like to say something self-critical, because this has been a matter of great concern to me for many years and i have had the honour of drawing up parliament's budget on several occasions: in the long run we will not be credible as a parliament in negotiations with the council and also with the commission if we do not control our own budget. when i look at what we had yesterday for carryovers of unspent 2005 budgets, when i think of the dispute we had with our dear friends from the social democrats to bring the parliament's budget just 20 million euros below the magic 20% threshold - i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mr dombrovskis, for the fight he has led - we will have to consider whether all this still has anything to do with truth and clarity. a european parliament which does not spend 10% of its budget as it is stated in the budget has a credibility problem. we must also be self-critical. the financial perspective is as follows: take this lesson you've learned with you. europe is made up of equal states, not of old and new member states. europe, that is to say, the community interest, not the sum of 25 national interests. if you take this into account, you will succeed at the weekend, if not, you will fail!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we liberals and democrats, together with the groups of the conservative christian democrats and the uen, have expressed our views on your programme of work. the content structure we have chosen shows that there are tasks in all policy areas that will occupy us in the coming year. we congratulate you on the general orientation of the work programme: strengthening europe's competitiveness, pursuing the lisbon agenda with consistency and strengthening the european economy by perfecting the marketplace - these are the right approaches to strengthening europe for globalisation. this policy will also bring europe closer to its citizens, because it will show what europe really means to the individual. i would also like to make a few critical remarks. the european parliament is a place where many political initiatives are taken, where many discussions take place, and we very much hope that you will take up these discussions and translate them into actual initiatives which will then lead to legislation. what europe needs is a joint programme of work between the various institutions, so that it can be seen that the european institutions are working together. we are the people's representatives. we are taking up what the citizens in the member states are discussing and wanting, and we therefore ask you to take this more into account. also some critical points about the form. the coherence of the work programme is not given when it consists of two parts which have nothing to do with each other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it is not a document that can really inform the citizens about what europe really wants to do. we also ask that you give a legal basis for each initiative you take, so that we can trace back to why europe actually has the competence to do something here. it is also advisable to make few suggestions, because it is often much more consistent to concentrate on a few and then to do them well. commissioner, better regulation means not only making proposals but also implementing them later. better regulation must above all mean making the implementation of proposals easier, faster and also more immediate. the impact of legislation should be given priority, i.e. the consequential costs of legislation should be taken into account more. if it turns out that a particular piece of legislation will cost too much and the costs will outweigh the benefits, then that legislation should also be abandoned. this applies not only to new initiatives, but also to existing ones, and what is already in the process of legislation must be taken into account in this assessment to determine whether it is really needed or whether it is too expensive. commissioner, less is often more. we have followed this and have drawn up proposals to that effect. i ask you to take it up, it is important for the citizens to have a clear, understandable and reduced eu so that they know what it is all about.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have just voted on the bersani report, which i have accompanied as shadow rapporteur in parliament. this report is a good compromise between those who want more fiscal competence for the european union and those who are against it, both in terms of the tax base for companies and the tax rate for corporate taxation. but it was during this vote that i was informed that the european court of justice had ruled in the marks & spencer case. here we have the situation where, in the context of a consolidation, there is suddenly the possibility that this company can consolidate profits and losses from europe in the uk, and the uk will have to pay a double-digit million to the company. i don't want to judge this thing. i just want to make it clear that we want a community of law. this parliament is doing the right thing and we as parliamentarians are doing the right thing. we have a case of judicial law here again, which must be discussed once in principle. i do not think that this can be the future of the european union!
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise reached on the proposal for a directive which the commission presented just three months ago is the result of serious, professional and intensive work carried out jointly by the three institutions of the european union and is also the result of the common determination shown in the desire to combat terrorism and organised crime together. if this parliament, as i very much hope, votes in favour of the compromise reached, the 25 member states of the union will have common legislation on the retention of telecommunications traffic data, which will make the fight by the judiciary and the police to protect the right to security of european citizens more effective. this is an important achievement in itself, a first but fundamental step towards the gradual harmonization of national legislation. moreover, if an agreement is reached, it will emphasise the possibility of addressing issues of fundamental importance to european citizens in the context of a community framework, no longer an intergovernmental one; i should like to say publicly that, thanks to the personal commitment and courageous determination of minister clarke, we have achieved agreement in the council on changing the legal basis to the current proposal for a directive, which only a few months ago did not seem easy. this result, this compromise, allows, in my view, to strike a balance between the need for security and the need for freedom. this is a major objective pursued by the european commission and by me personally. this compromise answers some of the most important demands made, not only by the council, but above all by this parliament in the course of the intense debate of the last few months. we have taken account of fundamental requirements such as the protection and security of personal data, the application of sanctions for the illegal use of data retained and the limitation of the application of the directive to serious crimes. i would also like to reiterate in this house, as i have already said to the council, how important it is that the principles of necessity and proportionality are always respected in the application of the much-talked-about article 15 of the current 2002 directive. these are important achievements, which aim to protect the fundamental rights of european citizens and which are in line with the general principles of european legislative action. mr president, i should like to conclude by thanking you for the quality of the work carried out by this parliament in difficult circumstances and in a very short time compared with the average parliamentary working time. it must also be acknowledged that this matter presents very complex legal, technical and economic aspects and on some specific issues the initial views were apparently and substantially very far apart. for these reasons, i would like to express my personal gratitude and appreciation for the work of the libe committee, in which i have participated on several occasions, and of its chairman, mr cavada, and of the rapporteur, mr alvaro. mr president, the commission therefore welcomes the compromise reached and recommends that this compromise be supported by the european parliament, in particular by approving amendments nos 51 to 92 signed by mr roure, mr kreissl-dörfler for the european socialist party and mr reul for the european people's party. i believe that this consensus can and must go beyond the amendments tabled by the two main groups in the european parliament and i believe that an even wider consensus from this parliament would demonstrate to our citizens the full capacity of this great institution, and of the three european institutions, to work together to give concrete answers to the questions of our fellow citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i wish to begin by associating myself very strongly with the sentiments expressed today by my friend, commission vice-president frattini. i believe there has been very substantial and constructive work, both between the council and the commission and between the council and parliament. i particularly want to express my appreciation to mr cavada and everybody in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, including mr alvaro, and the leaders of the groups for the way we have worked to discuss these questions. as we come to the end of the uk presidency, i am very happy to have the opportunity to participate in this debate. it has been one of the most important items on our agenda and i hope that we can agree that these proposals represent a chance for all three institutions of europe, parliament, the commission and the council, to stand united in the face of terrorism and organised crime and to send a message that we are determined to work together to achieve these things. i am proud of what has been achieved in this presidency. we have agreed a european union counter-terrorism strategy. we have taken steps to improve the exchange of information for law enforcement. we have adopted a strategy to address radicalisation and terrorist recruitment. we have established a european union programme to protect critical infrastructure against terrible attacks. we have established a peer evaluation of counter-terrorism practice and development. we have adopted a money-laundering directive. we have agreed proposals to enhance the sharing of information between law enforcement agencies and we have developed a european plan of action to tackle human trafficking. in that context, let me draw attention to the fact that we have also placed the issues of migration much higher up the european union agenda. this is a very substantial range of achievements. but i personally attach the greatest importance to the one we are debating today: the aim to achieve common standards for retention of telecommunications data. as mr frattini said, this has been a frank debate – with everybody ready to participate in discussion – but also a difficult debate, because the issues of principle and the technical issues have not been at all easy to resolve. my own commitment has been to listen as widely as possible to the views expressed within parliament and to discuss with my colleagues in the council how we can work together. to be candid, there was some scepticism in the council at the idea of going down the course of a first-reading deal and a process of this kind. people were not certain that it would be possible to get an agreement. that is why today is so important. to make the statement that the european parliament in particular, not just the council and commission, commits to proposals in this area seems to me very important. the tools we are talking about, the telecommunications data we are describing, are vital to investigate and detect terrorism and crime. it is essential, in my view, to provide a proportionate and balanced legal basis for the retention of data that would otherwise be erased or anonymised. variations in data retention practice mean that the ability of investigators and prosecutors to detect and prosecute criminals and terrorists to stop them causing harm, or to catch them after they have caused harm, is dependent on which communications service provider a suspect, a victim or witness has used or which member state they were in. that variation gives an open goal to our opponents in criminality, and it is that we are trying to close with this directive, which i hope we will adopt today. we have many examples, some of which i gave to the civil liberties committee in september 2005, where communications data has been used to trace the members of terrorist cells, to help identify murderers and free kidnap victims and to deal with those who organise very serious crime. the position of the council, supported by the commission, aims to find a compromise between parliament and the council, in particular, the need to balance law enforcement needs with individuals’ right to privacy by including specific rules on data protection. as amended, the directive would oblige member states to ensure the retention of data for the investigation, detection and prosecution of serious crime only. this was a call that came specifically from the european parliament. many told us that we had to ensure that this was limited to serious crime at community level. we have responded to that point in what is being put forward, which the council accepted. on periods of retention, the proposed period in the compromise, six to twenty-four months, represents a compromise between those in the council, who wanted a much longer maximum period – and there are some in the council who did not believe in principle that we should legislate on this basis at all – and those in the parliament, who would have been happier with a shorter retention period. i believe the compromise will enable law enforcement authorities to obtain the data they need without disproportionately infringing privacy rights. the presidency took account of concerns expressed by member states and industry and by some in parliament about costs, particularly those incurred by storing types of data such as unanswered calls. that is why the list of data in the directive has been restricted and why unconnected call data is outside the scope altogether. it is also one reason why i supported the commitment, given by the commission and council, to regularly review the effectiveness of the application of the directive together with the european parliament, the european data protection supervisor and representatives of industry. this is a fast-moving picture and it is important that all the institutions work together to keep us up to date on the best way to deal with it. as i mentioned, the council also took very seriously the concerns expressed in parliament about data protection and security. that is why the amendments include articles on data protection, data access and sanctions in the event of data abuse. i agree entirely with the representations made by the parliament that data must be kept safe and secure and can only be disclosed lawfully to people lawfully entitled to see it. there should not be overall access. i know this has been a difficult negotiation and the subject matter is technical and complex. i welcome, therefore, the requirement that the commission must fully evaluate the application of the directive and its impact on industry and consumers. our right to privacy, our right to property, our right to free speech and our right to life are all threatened by terrorists and criminals. i believe that, particularly in this democracy, democratic politicians have a duty and responsibility to protect these rights through the kinds of practical measures we are agreeing here. i hope we can say at the end of this debate that we have achieved that. i believe the commission’s proposal, as amended by the council and with the support of parliament, would secure an instrument which strikes a better balance between the need to retain data to protect our citizens and the need to protect and respect individuals’ privacy. we are embracing new technologies that offer great opportunities for learning, for doing business, for communicating. but those same technologies can be used and misused by those who do not respect the rights of others, and by their victims too. it is right, therefore, that we do all we can to deliver justice and to protect citizens. it is what they, our electors, demand of us and it is why we must act, proportionately and democratically, of course, but hopefully with unity. i am pleased that tomorrow parliament as a whole has its chance to express its view on the proposal for a directive. the commission, in mr frattini’s excellent contribution, has already indicated its support. the council gives its support. if you, the parliament, also give your support, we can celebrate an historic achievement, which will send a powerful message to all european union citizens about both our determination and our ability to combat terrorism and serious crime and the importance of the european parliament in that fight. i believe the message that would send would be important in its own right, but it will also be important for the future arrangements within the european union as to how we develop these questions in a positive and constructive way. i conclude by again thanking all my colleagues in parliament, many of whom are in the chamber now, for the very friendly, positive, thoughtful and constructive approach they have taken in trying to debate these matters. i believe that your wisdom can take us to a new frontier of fighting crime, criminality and terrorism for the european union as a whole.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am delighted to have you here, as well as the distinguished colleagues with whom i have had the pleasure of working for over a year. you cannot reasonably expect to see me standing here radiant with joy, for i have a different view from the one you are now expressing. i do not think we have ever really had to decide what legal basis is at issue. because it is obvious, there are contracts that clearly regulate this. the commission has also tabled a proposal under article 95, a directive which provides for the co-decision of parliament. to celebrate that we have got what we deserve is beneath the dignity of this parliament. but well, others may see this differently. i personally think that we have deliberately embarked on something, and the council would not have done well to take a decision either - we know that from the legal services, including those of the council. we also know that there would have been no unanimity in the council. so it made perfect tactical sense to bring this to parliament. i also disagree with you on a number of points. we have taken joint decisions in committee, across all the political groups, sometimes even unanimously, and have achieved excellent amendments. a final vote of 33 to 8 to 5 reflects the position of the second largest committee, the only official body in this house that has ever taken a joint decision on this. i disagree with you on the retention periods. but you know that. i come from a much wider background and have gone very far in these compromises we have made in the committee to show some backbone. now we have an article x on this issue which provides for any extension of the retention periods for member states, provided they notify the commission and give it the opportunity to examine within six months whether there might be any barriers to trade or a disturbance of the internal market - interestingly not, whether there might be any fundamental or legal concerns. this is such a boom that germany's much-loved neighbour, poland, is planning to withhold data for 15 years. that's an interesting show. however, we have no agreement on the cost. it is a precedent that the exporting companies and citizens have to pay when the states order something. i can see that we have introduced provisions on data protection and the protection of the public, as well as sanctions. these are very positive steps, which i welcome. but they cost the council nothing because they refer to national legislation. and that's not difficult to do, you have to be aware of that. as regards the content, we had discussed it with the commission, which shared our view: 'it is quite clear that the text is divergent from our original proposal in a number of important areas. while the adoption of our proposal would have resulted in almost complete harmonisation in this area, the compromise text represents only a partial harmonisation. we are not going to regulate the retention of data in a definitive way, as the committee and the commission once thought. i wonder how this can be considered a complete success. what we have done is to give the member states a measure which they have not been able to implement under directive 2002/58. how it is designed is largely up to them, because we have enormous flexibility. i do not think that we have lived up to the claim to be active as european legislators. i also believe that there are other misunderstandings about the competence and future power of this parliament. a press release from the socialist group of 8 december ends with the sentence: in future all dossiers in this area will be treated on the basis of codecision with parliament, including the revision of the present directive. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take a decision on it in due course. i also know that when we decide on this, ireland will appeal to the european court of justice to see whether this is possible from a jurisdictional point of view. in conclusion, i should like to say that i am very disappointed with the way the procedure has gone, with the composition of the two major groups. i think it is incredibly quiet the way in which this has been done, after eight weeks of very intensive consultation and deliberation on how we are going to proceed, after everyone has moved and we have made enormous compromises and after the committee has made a very clear decision on this. i think it is stupid to take a preliminary decision in this way with a handful of members of the large groups on a compromise proposal from the council which has not even been formally submitted because there has not yet been an official negotiation with the council, since the representative of the council has basically renounced his mandate and thinks he cannot negotiate! i'm disappointed, that's right. but i am also very much looking forward to tomorrow's vote and i want to say, in summary: there will always be a willingness to work together in a reasonable way. the results may not be the same for everyone. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. people expect us not to argue about jurisdiction, but to make sure that their problems are solved as quickly and as quickly as possible. and people are expecting european policy to do exactly that, to not adopt another resolution and to not argue with each other again on the issue of fighting organised crime and terrorism, but to present results instead. that was our problem. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the situation. it's not the cure-all, but it's a remedy. we have had the problem and are responding to people's legitimate concerns about how to ensure that data is protected and that uninformed citizens are not unduly harmed. we didn't want it to be a long story, but we wanted a quick result. the people have a right to be presented with a result quickly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our solution, i say this frankly, is not 100%, but it helps now and it gives the police tools they didn't have before. it is to do what we can to ensure that people are protected and that citizens' data is protected. the council would not have gone any further. it was a never-ending story: framework decision and eternal quarrel. parliament has been asking a lot of questions for months, and you have described this correctly, mr president. we didn't make any progress because the council didn't move. and then the commission made a proposal which helped to prepare a consensus. we now have a result which has only come about because parliament has moved and we have tried to bring together different forces. that's right, you're right. we also won by having taken an unquestioned stance on this project. whether it ever happened or not is irrelevant to me. i am interested in the fact that this project has now been completed at the end of 2005 and can therefore be put into effect. i say yes to this instrument, i say no to a random collection of data. i therefore say yes to the restricted conditions we have reached. it is not all data types, not all data can be stored, but only a very limited area, on the internet: the movement data is only available at the beginning of the movement, the unsuccessful calls only where the countries already have it. it doesn't change anything. and the countries that don't have it don't have to do it. they're not forced, they're free. we've reduced the requirements. we have a minimum of six months for the minimum retention period - i think we can talk about that - and 24 months if the period is extended. i have one more question, and that is the question mr alvaro has also asked. i'd like an answer, perhaps from mr. clarke. in a debate commissioner frattini said that what is being considered in poland at 15 years is not what is covered by an exceptional case. i cannot imagine it either, but i would feel more comfortable if minister clarke might have something to say about it. it can't be. of course, we did not get the arrangement i wanted, given the cost. but the question of cost is no longer as relevant as it was at the beginning of the procedure, because it is no longer about the data types in the sets. i think that during the procedure we must also take account of the fact that the reality changes, and this has consequences for other points, such as costs, which are no longer relevant to that extent. we've achieved an infinite amount of security for people in privacy, in terms of surveillance and the misuse of data, and that's part of the truth. all that mr alvaro has said has been achieved together. it was very difficult, but now it's here. it is now laid down and will hopefully be adopted tomorrow that people will be protected against the misuse of personal data and that there are penalties, that no content is stored, that only serious crimes are accessed and more. and parliament is in charge of the action: no comitology and no revision after two years! the police have new powers, citizens enjoy new, additional data protection, and parliament has increased its influence. i believe people have a right to expect that we take their protection from crime seriously.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are adopting tomorrow an important european instrument to combat terrorism and serious crime. the commission proposal for a directive now provides for parliament's co-decision, after we rejected the original framework decision on the grounds that it had no legal basis. we have started in the council with very different views and different understandings, just as the member states have. we have discussed and found workable compromises. we have negotiated informally with the council from the outset, in the spirit of a rapid and efficient work. it is also common in democratic decision-making to seek majorities for a position and to make compromises. a large majority in this house supports the compromises put forward by the two major groups. the rapporteur finds this approach to be inadequate. but an agreement with mr alvaro could not be reached because the rapporteur was not in brussels at the final stage of the negotiations. the british presidency was informed of the position, after the two large groups had informally agreed on it. on this basis, an agreement was reached in the council. as a success for our house we can record the following points: we have been able to reduce the amount of data types considerably compared to the commission proposal. the range of opinions on the criminal record ranged from 'all crimes to be considered' to 'only terrorism'. the agreement was: 'serious offences, defined by national law, taking into account the european arrest warrant'. we have struck a balance between protecting citizens from serious crime and terrorism on the one hand and protecting privacy on the other.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. contrary to reports to the contrary, we are not voting tomorrow on the council document on data retention, but on a compromise which has been reached with difficulty between a majority of members of the committee and the council in the run-up to the last vote in the council. the european parliament is now involved for the first time in the third pillar, internal security, which is subject to co-decision. this was not the wish of all the member states, not even my own government. it is a delicate matter to decide where the european level can and may influence the national level and where it cannot, without unnecessarily restricting the rights of the national parliaments and/or eliminating their powers. the german federal minister for justice, brigitte zypries, therefore made a parliamentary reservation. the european parliament has in any case succeeded in bringing the council to an agreement and in making important improvements to the original council proposal. data retention is an important tool in the fight against serious crime, international organised crime and terrorism, among others. some member states, such as the uk, spain and sweden, already use this instrument. it was all the more important for us to introduce minimum guarantees at european level before we could go much further than the present proposal at national level without our co-decision. for example, for cost reasons and data protection reasons, we have successfully enforced the requirement that the standard data be stored for the beginning of the mobile connection, not for the end. traffic data from so-called unsuccessful calls are also not included, except in cases where companies store this data anyway. it is also left to the member states to determine the storage period themselves, within a range of 6 to a maximum of 24 months. it is only where a longer period is already applied, as in italy, for example, that it is possible to maintain this system. as regards the polish case, i would also like to have some information on this. however, data protection has been strengthened compared to the first proposal and national rules on access to and handling of data continue to apply. my group will be in favour of this compromise by a large majority, even though some would have liked a little less and others perhaps a little more. i would like to say one more thing to my colleague, mr alvaro: it was a close call.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, in the context of this collective work, i would like to commend the intelligence of commissioner frattini's original proposal and the courage of the president-in-office, minister clarke, in this area. you have been able to work while respecting parliament, when initially there was no evidence to support this. tomorrow's vote is not only important, it's fundamental. firstly, because it provides for the development of the basis of a community framework and leaves the establishment of certain limits to the discretion of the member states as regards the duration and volume of data to be retained to meet the requirements of the fight against crime and terrorism. second, because when limits are reasonable, they are acceptable to all. the minimum data retention limit for a period of six months is broadly applied by telecommunications operators to manage their contracts and marketing. this six-month limit was already suggested by the national authorities for data protection when the first data protection directive was approved. thirdly, because parliament wanted to demonstrate to the council, but also and above all to its own citizens, that it is prepared to take account not only of economic interests but also of the requirements relating to the protection of their security and fundamental rights. mr president, i personally know of no cases where economic interests would be overridden by the public interest in such a tragic situation, whatever the price to be paid, and this despite the current legal frameworks of the treaties, which are also a little schizophrenic. the constitution would have spared us this multiplicity of pillars but we must stick to the legal bases at our disposal. the court has recently opened a door for us, let us seize this new opportunity to draw up community legislation which we so badly need. the vote tomorrow will certainly reveal the contradictions and limitations of the present legal situation, but it will above all propose something new in an area of interest to a public opinion capable of understanding that we are working to safeguard its interests in good agreement, away from any rivalry of powers and legal specificities. mr president, i would like to conclude by saying on behalf of the committee which i have the honour of chairing that we are prepared, in other circumstances, to take up this intelligent challenge which has been wisely undertaken by the three parties, and i hope that this excellent cooperation between the council, the commission and parliament will continue.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the house has been under tremendous time pressure since the commission's proposal was tabled. from the outset, the premise was to carry out the project at all costs until the end of the year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and, obviously, it wasn't wanted either! i think this is also reflected in the fact that we are not going to vote on the report of the committee on the internal affairs tomorrow, but will simply abide by what the council decided at the beginning of december. as the shadow rapporteur for my group, i find it simply unacceptable that the two large groups have deliberately played the council against the vote of the committee and, mrs klamt, behind the back of the rapporteur. the compromise that the epp and spe have negotiated with the council is not only lazy, it stinks! my group rejects the compromise proposal outright. i have therefore already submitted a minority vote in committee with my colleague mrs buitenweg of the green group and i have tabled a motion for rejection of the commission's proposal for tomorrow. i'll tell you why. the introduction of the obligation to store data systematically and independently of the circumstances is a dam breaker at the expense of the protection of data of unsuspecting citizens. the commission proposal is essentially to place 460 million eu citizens under general suspicion. the proposed storage is a flagrant infringement of the fundamental rights and freedoms of europeans. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should rule on the interpretation of the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. freedom of the press, and in particular the protection of sources and informants, is being jeopardized, and i doubt - i say this also to my german colleagues - that this existed before the german constitution. the aim and purpose of the measure are still unclear. to date, no evidence has been presented that the retention of a vast amount of communications data can actually improve the detection of serious crime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its future work. but that does not justify, until the near future, the existence of the glass citizen, the collection, linking and sharing of data and information in an increasingly indiscriminate manner, without regard for the rights of the individual and without compelling necessity. the commission has already made a number of proposals. no, i don't want to do that. i do not want to do that, especially as a member of parliament from east germany. a general suspicion of the citizens, combined with a collection of data and information that the police and also the intelligence services have at their disposal at any time, is exactly such a political thinking that people once - and rightly - demonstrated away. that was good!
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is fair to say that in the last few weeks there has been a debate and political action in this house which not only gives this parliament a stronger role in the fight against terrorism and organised crime but also strengthens the overall image of the three european institutions. in the course of the many speeches i have heard some people say that this directive is an undemocratic instrument, and some even spoke of stalin and hitler. this directive is a victory for democracy, it is an important and balanced instrument for the benefit of the citizens and, above all, for those who are involved, even at personal cost, in the fight against crime, i am referring to the investigating authorities, the police forces. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we want to continue with 20 different legal systems, in which each member state does basically what it wants, or is it not better to converge, for the first time, on a european approach, on a directive, and start with harmonization? this is a directive, ladies and gentlemen, which is certainly based on the principles of necessity and proportionality. i have heard some questions, for example from mr reul and mr kudrycka, who have spoken about a case which the polish parliament is considering. i can say without any doubt that the retention of data for 15 years does not seem to follow the criteria of proportionality and necessity, although each member state has the duty to demonstrate why its request is proportionate and necessary, and frankly the case of 15 years seems to me to be a very limiting case. i would like to make two final remarks. i thank all those who have spoken, and in particular mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra and mr díez gonzález, who have wanted to remember the victims of crime and have wanted to stress how - and i fully agree with this - the fundamental freedoms of the individual must be guaranteed. however, ladies and gentlemen, if someone uses a mobile phone to set off a bomb, as has unfortunately happened, or to give instructions to a gang of paedophiles, is it right or not that the police and the judiciary, that is to say the legitimate institutions, should have the tools to prevent and combat such phenomena? i think it is right that this should happen and at the same time i think it is right, as we have written in the directive, that any abuse should be punished: more tools for police forces, more tools for the judiciary in our countries, which are democracies, and more checks to see if someone has abused. in conclusion, the european institutions have unfortunately been divided and are divided on important issues, but it is extremely comforting to see - and i hope that tomorrow's vote will confirm this - that on the issue of the security of citizens, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the european institutions will not be divided, but will provide the capacity, all three together, to respond in extraordinary rapid terms to the demand of our fellow citizens.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, firstly, in our capacity as presidency, we have tried to work with all groups within the european parliament. i pay respect to mr alvaro as rapporteur of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs; i have been to that committee on a number of occasions to have discussions on these points. they are difficult matters, which is why there are differences of opinion, but they are differences of opinion based, i hope, on mutual respect. secondly, these proposals are about networks. networks are the modern criminality, whether they are terrorist, paedophile, drug- or people-trafficking networks. it is not a question of the content of the communication, but what the network is, who is in it. it is very important to understand that. as far as the point about poland is concerned, mr frattini is completely correct in what he says. there is a clear procedure if member states want to go beyond the period of time. they can consult the commission and the commission will then make a judgement on the proportionality issue, which mr frattini has mentioned, also as regards the criteria of the single market and competitiveness within the single market. those are the procedures and that also is clear. on the question raised by mr crowley from ireland, it is certainly true that mr mcdowell, the irish minister, raised questions about the legal basis. we took opinion from the council’s legal services, which were very clear, on the basis of the legal advice, that this is the right course to follow. my final point: people have talked about a police state. this is the opposite of a police state. we are all democracies, both the european parliament and each country. it is the rule of law that determines how this technique is used, and what we are doing here is proposing the rule of law. those who talk about hitler or stalin or police states are utterly wrong. this proposal goes in exactly the opposite direction. i hope, when the vote takes place tomorrow, we will agree that the democratic european parliament will stand by the democratic council of the european union, will stand by the democratic commission in that process, to defend our democracy against the criminality which is working to weaken us and our societies at all times. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, lady in the field, to prevent any myth-making, i want to make it clear: the rapporteur was in israel until wednesday evening before the crucial council meeting. i therefore used the telecommunications facilities and informed mr alvaro of our proposals by e-mail as early as wednesday afternoon. as far as i know, mrs roure has done the same. mrs kaufmann, mrs buitenweg, you said that a deal had been made behind the backs of the small groups. i would point out that the gue and the greens have already rejected the compromise on the budget. it is hardly worthwhile to start negotiations with groups which are categorically against a proposal. they are not negotiating with the epp on all other issues, but only with other groups. so, please, do not use terms such as 'deals' and accept the democratic majority in this house instead!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the council's annual report on human rights.
i have to say, madam president, the eu is accepted worldwide as the voice of human rights because it is more than any other institution that puts words into action. i am thinking of the clause which the commissioner has rightly described as a key point and which makes human rights an essential element in trade and cooperation agreements with third countries. to date, there are 120 such agreements. the 2005 human rights report highlights important achievements, such as tightening export controls on material that can be used for torture, taking action against child abusers who exploit the internet for their own purposes, and working towards the recognition of the international criminal court. but there are also setbacks in this report, for example in african countries such as sudan, zimbabwe, congo or rwanda, or in asian countries such as indonesia, sri lanka, iran, burma. there is still a particular case for criticism in the case of china. the treatment of freedom of thought, religion and assembly is unacceptable. critical journalists and lawyers are harassed, human rights defenders are persecuted, defendants are denied a fair trial and are tortured. thousands of death sentences are handed down every year. the situation in tibet is still dramatically bad. the day after tomorrow we shall be debating the urgency of the chinese military intervention in a tibetan monastery. the eu member states must finally take action and not abstain as they have always done in geneva. the human rights violations by china are on the agenda of the human rights convention there. in 2005, the fight against terrorism was a priority alongside civil rights. you're right about that. however, the rule of law must be respected. that also applies to the cia's prisoner transports across europe, which will be debated tomorrow afternoon. under no circumstances can there be a breach of the human rights convention. this is also a message from the report on human rights.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, i would also like to thank the commission and all the honourable members who contributed to an impressive debate. i am always impressed by the range of human rights issues on which members of the european parliament are active. i am certainly encouraged by the commitment, not only that shown today but throughout, on these issues. i would like to deal with one or two of the specific points that have been raised. first of all, i welcome richard howitt’s suggestion, and simon coveney’s as well, that we should act on today’s useful exchange and hold further discussions on our two reports. a number of honourable members have expressed a wish for a more active role for the european parliament in the eu’s annual report on human rights. as reflected in the conclusions reached at its meeting yesterday, the general affairs and external relations council welcomes the cooperation with the parliament in developing and delivering its human rights policy during 2005 and looks forward to building on that relationship further. i will ensure that we give very serious reflection to the specific ideas that have been put forward and i am sure that we can find ways to deepen our dialogue. i want to emphasise that one of the eu’s great strengths lies in its variety of different institutions: they have different and complementary roles. the troika often works to promote human rights in an intergovernmental framework. parliament can bring its weight and views to bear in different ways and often with much greater flexibility. we greatly welcome such opportunities to share views and ideas. we particularly value our regular and open exchanges with the subcommittee on human rights. we need to make sure our work is well coordinated and coherent, but we must also capitalise on our respective strengths. it is important to keep some distinction between the roles the different institutions can play in promoting human rights and democratisation. glyn ford raised an important issue about the way in which we use human rights clauses. the council will look seriously at any issues put forward by the european parliament. it is worth noting that their primary purpose is to provide a constructive platform for engagement with third countries on human rights. suspension of any agreement is a last resort and is therefore very rarely used. human rights clauses have been invoked in at least 12 cases since 1995 as a basis for consultation, suspension of aid or other measures involving 10 acp countries. so obviously that is a weapon we are prepared to use. it has to be used discreetly and effectively if it is to bring results. i conclude by welcoming once again the strong commitment the eu institutions have shown to promoting human rights and to providing an effective report on eu policy and actions in this area. it is extremely valuable to have these opportunities to review collectively how we are doing and how we can do better. we look forward to continued close cooperation with the european parliament as we take our human rights work forward in the months ahead. i am very grateful to all those who have contributed to what has been an extremely good debate.
member of the commission. madam president, let me try to round up this important debate, to which i personally attach great importance. of course, there are still many challenges, otherwise we need not have this debate. however, the commission uses specific instruments and i would like to give you a few concrete examples, because it sometimes seems that we are only using words. this is not true, we have many possibilities and we try to use them, but still much has to be done and we have not reached the end. for instance, we have an instrument through which eur 180 million is used for promotion of justice and the rule of law, fostering a culture of human rights, promoting the democratic process, advancing equality, tolerance and peace. secondly, we have country-specific cooperation programmes, to which a total of eur 35 million has been allocated. thirdly, grants of eur 14 million have been awarded to international organisations, and we use these for campaigns. we also have a very important instrument for the eu election observation missions. many members know of it and its importance because they have been chief observers in different countries, although the chief observer does have a certain amount of independence. this instrument is allocated eur 13 million. the commission has been involved in presidential and parliamentary election missions. it has completed eu election observation missions to ethiopia, guinea-bissau, burundi, the west bank and gaza, also to lebanon, afghanistan, sri lanka and liberia. other missions are currently under way, such as those in venezuela, haiti, the democratic republic of congo, and again for the parliamentary elections in the west bank and gaza. the neighbourhood policy is my specific responsibility. there is now an instrument that provides a positive incentive. i can give 10% to 15% more if a country in the region, for instance morocco or jordan, is introducing more reforms in the human rights sector. i think this is important. with regard to the cia, in general we are clearly of the conviction that terrorism can be fought only with full respect for human rights and the rule of law. human rights are valid in every situation. we know that this is a difficult challenge. it is a challenge to maintain the right balance between improving the right to privacy and combating terrorism. we have to protect our people but we also have to protect the principles on which our society is based. finally, with regard to the democracy and human rights instrument, i have often stated that for us the eidhr is a flagship policy. although it will no longer have a separate legal base, we have proposed a thematic programme for democracy and human rights, with global coverage and with visibility and unified programming, including a separate budget line. the proposed thematic programme would be identified within each of the proposed external action instruments. there will be a specific communication on this thematic programme, setting out the scope, objectives and political priorities, which will be presented at the end of january. i hope there is a chance of agreeing a complete overall package, which will enable the council, commission and parliament to look forward.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on human rights and freedom of the press in tunisia and on the evaluation of the world summit on the information society in tunis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i met you as an experienced journalist. they keep pointing it out. i would like to know whether you think that more product placement, more interruptions of television programmes by advertising, is actually a quality gain for this medium? and i want to ask you specifically why you are now allowing news programs that are less than 30 minutes long to be interrupted by advertising?
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to say to mr harbour that the official title is the ‘audiovisual and media services’ directive. however, i think it will become ‘audiovisual without frontiers’. the linear and non-linear division is fairly clear. we will have an opportunity to discuss these definitions later in our various committee meetings, as i made very clear in the text of the proposal. i chose to use a light-touch approach to provide an opportunity for these media to develop. i shall give you a very simple example. today video on demand is not developing very quickly for the simple reason that there are 25 regulations for that kind of service. therefore, if you are developing this service in one country and would like to export it to another, you have to develop a new service for the new country, which means that the internal market is not functioning any more. i want to provide this opportunity for these services to operate in the internal market and develop, because i believe that video on demand will offer an extraordinary chance not only for new entrants on the vod market but also in bringing our european content and films to the consumer. it is evident that the european film industry has distribution problems and difficulties in getting its products seen by the public – either there is no cinema or the cinema does not carry the european content. video on demand is a real opportunity to bring the european product to the consumer. monsieur belet, le placement de produits figure dans le socle commun; par conséquent, les règles concernant le placement de produits, y compris pour les jeunes, figurent tant dans la programmation linéaire que non linéaire. si vous analysez la nouvelle directive, vous verrez très clairement que je me suis efforcée de protéger nos jeunes, parce qu'avec autant de contenus disponibles sur autant de supports, ils sont vulnérables et ils ont donc besoin de protection. c'est aussi une discussion que je souhaite mener avec les députés. jusqu'où devons-nous aller en matière de protection des jeunes? est-ce que j'en fais trop ou est-ce que je n'en fais pas assez? c'est une question à discuter. frau harms, bringt ein mehr an product placement auch ein mehr für die inhalte? ich glaube ja. heute haben wir das problem, dass product placement fast überall geschieht, aber in manchen ländern illegal ist. in anderen ländern ist es nur für nationale produkte illegal, nicht für produkte aus dem nachbarland. für amerikanische produkte gibt es überall product placement, so dass product placement heute auf unseren fernsehschirmen stattfindet – auch wenn es national ausgeschlossen ist –, ohne dass der verbraucher bescheid weiß. mit der neuen regelung wird erst einmal eine horizontale europaweite regelung eingeführt, die product placement da erlaubt, wo es wichtig ist, nämlich zur finanzierung unserer europäischen content-industrie, zur finanzierung von unseren filmen, damit sie die gleichen chancen haben, auch was die finanzierung betrifft, wie filme aus anderen kontinenten. zweitens: derzeit ist nicht geregelt, dass product placement – zum beispiel für kinder – in verschiedenen arten von content ausgeschlossen sein muss. es ist unglaublich, wie so etwas überall in kindersendungen stattfindet. kinder können sich jedoch dagegen im gegensatz zu erwachsenen nicht wehren. deshalb ist es wichtig, dass für kinder product placement horizontal ausgeschlossen ist. als ehemalige journalistin – weil sie das angesprochen haben – habe ich mit meinen journalistenkollegen ausführlich über den einfluss von product placement auf information oder auf informationsähnliche programme gesprochen und bin zu der schlussfolgerung gelangt, dass es sinnvoll ist, auch für information und in informationsähnlichen programmen product placement völlig auszuschließen.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you and congratulate you on the presentation of the draft revision of the television directive. the european parliament has been a strong advocate in recent years of the need to ensure that the same content is subject to the same rules in the digital age. in this respect, i think your proposal is a fitness programme for the introduction of digital television in europe. my questions today concern only two points. firstly, you said that you wanted to provide for the strengthening of self-control and co-regulation. could you tell us more about that? secondly, what are the implications of product placement for public service broadcasting in europe? is it relevant to the aid?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you, commissioner. it is good that you are presenting the draft to parliament, since the press is already aware of it. they will find full support in strengthening the european content and we will have enough time in two readings to discuss this in detail. diversity is our strength in europe - we cannot compete with the american market, nor do we want to - but it is also our weakness. we cannot, in my view, incorporate product placement into films as we do in america. in the end, the market always determines how products are presented in the films. it is not that we are against driving in a car, but if only those with the biggest wallets can place their products, then something has gone wrong. we also agree that children's shows should not be advertised. the only thing is that the limits are floating; that is clear. where are the lines to be drawn? i think if you open the door here, there's no stopping it. so there's going to be a lot of resistance to product placement and the blurring of boundaries. we shall have to discuss this in the two readings.
the commission has already done so. i, too, must say that i was surprised at your presentation today that the potential threat to editorial independence was so far short of what it should have been. you mentioned that news and children's programming should be protected from product placement. you also mentioned information-like broadcasts. information programmes intended to inform the public are a broad term. what about magazines that teach about financial services, for example? is there any way to advertise for such? or what about health magazines? is it possible that there is no advertising of certain health products or services? i therefore ask you to clarify your idea of information broadcasting.
member of the commission. this is a very pertinent question and we raise this issue regularly both in formal meetings of the association council and in other bilateral meetings. i have raised it myself on several occasions with the members of the turkish government. one should also bear in mind that there are several international organisations of which both turkey and the republic of cyprus are members, such as the council of europe and the osce. it is clear to me and to the commission that we cannot have the same kind of progress report in 2006 as in 2005. this means that turkey will need to make serious and significant progress both on the reforms related to the copenhagen political criteria and concerning the normalisation of its relations with the republic of cyprus, in accordance with the eu declaration and the negotiating framework. the safeguard clause, or the emergency brake as it is called, is a very serious policy tool, but it is not appropriate to speculate further on this before concrete negotiations on the chapters have really started. however, in the case of a serious and persistent breach of human rights, the rule of law or political criteria, the commission would not hesitate to propose using this safeguard clause, provided for by the negotiating framework. let us not tempt fate. let us work in order to solve these problems. i expect that turkey will comply with its commitments to support cypriot membership of international organisations.
member of the commission. first, concerning mr posselt’s question, the commission’s position on the possible referendum on independence in montenegro is as follows: firstly, the constitutional charter must be respected and the international standards complied with. i refer in particular to the venice commission whose recommendations should be observed when the preparations are made for the possible referendum on independence. moreover, we have underlined that in both serbia and montenegro it is now essential for us to focus our energy on the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement and not let other issues interrupt that process. the commission is following closely the situation in sandžak, notably with a view to the possible independence of montenegro, should there be a referendum along the lines i described. we note that the bosniak communities living in the serbian part and in the montenegrin part of sandžak have differing attitudes towards this issue. as regards the serbian part, the local bosniak leaders are concerned about the potential adverse implications of montenegrin independence, in particular on trade flows and the movement of people. as regards the montenegrin part of sandžak, the bosniak political leaders seem to be in favour of montenegro’s independence. however, a large part of the non-bosniak population in the montenegrin part of sandžak declares itself serb and is against montenegro’s independence. hence, there is a risk of inter-ethnic tension and it is a very complex situation, a reflection of the ethnic and political patchwork of the western balkans. for the commission and for the european union it is essential that both in serbia and in montenegro the rights of the minorities, including the bosniak community, are duly protected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful to the commissioner for this very detailed and very good answer. i can tell you from my knowledge of the region that it was a very precise answer indeed. i would just like to ask two short supplementary questions. could you imagine a more intensive development of local infrastructure? the area is extremely isolated. can you also envisage a crossborder euroregion as a solution for cooperation between the sandzak population in montenegro and serbia?
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive amending directive 1999/62/ec on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain road transport modes (9856/1/2005 - c6-0274/2005 - 2003/0175 ((cod)) (rapporteur: corien wortmann-kool) (a6-0377/2005).
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. politics was once defined as the art of the possible. if this definition is correct, then parliament has made good use of its possibilities in the face of the very different interests in our countries, but also in our parties. we should like to thank the rapporteur in particular for her excellent negotiating skills. why is this legislation so fundamental for us social democrats? it is implementing the system change at the cost of the road and thus to a more appropriate user financing of the infrastructure on a uniform basis of calculation throughout europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it also implements the polluter pays principle, which we want to put into practice during this parliamentary term - we have heard this from the commissioner and the council - also by taking account of external costs. the introduction of differentiated toll rates and their variability from 2010 onwards is of importance for us in transport policy. that is a real qualitative gain. toll surcharges in sensitive areas can be used to cross-subsidise environmentally friendly modes of transport, and surcharges in urban areas and the use of parallel and alternative transport, which is a current problem in germany, are also possible. from 2012 the weight of trucks over 3,7 tonnes will be the rule. the burden of proof for exceptions lies with the member states, and we have defined them quite narrowly. i am sure that transport policy rationality will not allow any exceptions, because we are currently experiencing an artificial increase in traffic volumes in germany by shifting the volume of freight traffic to lorries under 12 tonnes. i think we can agree on the whole with this compromise that we have all reached together, and i look forward to the next steps and discussions that we will have together in parliament on the internalisation of external costs.
i have to say, madam president, we shall of course not accept mr bradbourn's proposal. i am glad that you, as a trained environmental politician, are here when we take a good step forward in the adoption of the road costs directive, a sustainable european transport policy. we are not at the end, we are far from the goal. but we have come this far because of mrs wortmann-kool. i would like to congratulate you on this and thank you very much. i would like to make two points. we are talking about freight transport, and it is not just trucks over 40 tonnes, 12 tonnes or 7.5 tonnes that we are talking about, but we want to see vehicles over 3.5 tonnes subject to tolls. it is also up to the member states to assume their responsibilities. we also know that the cost of transporting goods is much more than just the cost of building and maintaining roads. the external costs to users must therefore finally be calculated and must no longer be calculated in isolation. these external costs of environmental, noise, congestion and health can be calculated, although mr bradbourn does not see it that way. one study estimates that external costs per thousand tonne kilometres are €88 on road and €19 and €17 on rail and inland waterways respectively. very conservative estimates suggest that external costs account for at least 60% of infrastructure costs. the compromise is that we'll meet again in two years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that means that in two years' time we will be waiting not only for the model but also for legislative proposals, and i already know from which angle the arrows will be fired at you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to make bold proposals. the vast majority of this parliament will support you in this. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the german veto against the internalisation of the external costs of the euro vignette and the extension to all lorries over 3.5 tonnes is something i, as a german member of parliament, must strongly condemn. it is bad for the railways, which cannot survive unfair competition between rail and road. their market share - according to the mckinsey study - will fall from 14% to 9% if the privileges of the road are not eliminated. the black-and-red federal government has insisted that each member state has huge loopholes to levy the toll for only 12 tonnes. that's only 10%. this will weaken the railway considerably. in germany, there is a railway toll for all trains on all tracks in the form of track charges. on the road, this applies only to trucks over 12 tonnes, and only on motorways. unfair competition is not being stopped, it is being cemented. this is not the way to achieve the kyoto targets for germany or europe. because of the german blockade, the transfer from the road to the railway is not possible. with this directive, there is no future for european railways!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has in a way inherited this report and developed it in an excellent way during this parliamentary term. i think it's right that we finally have a uniform set of rules. the 21st century will not go down in history as a century of robber knighthood in europe. but it is also important that the money that is generated from infrastructure flows back into infrastructure and is not just used to plug budget holes. let me say a few words about external costs. the question is, what costs are already internalised and what are not? is there an external benefit that needs to be balanced? the cost of congestion is internalised, in that it is paid by the transport operators because their lorries do not run and therefore cannot generate a gross national product. social costs are internalised through insurance premiums, to put it very clearly. and as for the environmental costs, please remember that every truck, every car also pays motor vehicle and mineral oil taxes. the fact that transport has to pay for everything, for the financing, and that the money also flows into the general budget, that cannot be. mr cramer, i'm a little surprised. i would recommend that you look at how the freight traffic of deutsche bahn ag developed from september 1998 to october 2005. in the seven years you've been in government, the freight volume of the railroad has halved. they've also charged the railway with the green tax. so do not make speeches about things for which you are essentially responsible! this is unacceptable.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the report by mr robert evans, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the rights of passengers with reduced mobility (com (2005) 0047 c6-0045/2005 2005/0007 cod)) (a6-0317/2005).
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the unacceptable practice of some airlines of refusing to take disabled people on board for cost reasons will no longer be possible. the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility as air passengers are being regulated in a comprehensive and uniform manner in europe great progress! this is another step towards passenger rights for all modes of transport which are so important to us. we are also responding to the demographic development in our countries and the increasing mobility of european citizens. the airport operators will be clearly responsible for the services to be organised. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the principles of the common market and the common interest.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are certainly deciding with this law on the rights of the more than 50 million europeans who have special needs in air transport. we may even be deciding about our own lives. because it can happen to anyone, whether it's due to an accident or a disease. in fact, it is likely to affect all of us, because of our age. after all, we all want to grow old. but no one wants to be old and not to be mobile. i am confident that we will succeed in ensuring equal opportunities and non-discrimination in travel. today we will start with air transport, tomorrow we will talk about similar aspects in rail, bus and ship transport. i am proud of the european union, which is creating a law specifically for disabled people for the first time with this regulation. the proposal provides that an airline or tour operator may not refuse to book a flight on the grounds of the passenger's reduced mobility. but he does allow for certain exceptions. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the same rules for the carriage of passengers with reduced mobility. however, the person concerned must be offered alternatives. the second central point of the proposal, alongside the obligation to promote, is the definition of the quality and quantity of high-quality assistance. they will continue to be offered by airlines operating at eu airports, but not only. it is good that there is agreement that the special benefits for disabled passengers or those with reduced mobility must be borne jointly by all air passengers. i ask the house to vote in favour of the evans report tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the report by mr henrik kristensen, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the promotion and protection of consumer interests in the new member states (2004/2157 (ini)) (a6-0378/2005).
commissioner, you do not have to apologise. you were very precise and it was very interesting. i can assure you that mr barrot spoke for much longer!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to thank mr kristensen for his excellent report, which really does touch on the issues at hand. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is very important that a high, common level of consumer protection is achieved in all the member states of the european union. that is the objective we must set ourselves. the consumer culture concept is therefore the right starting point to show that we must ensure that the rights are clearly known in all the member states, so that they can be claimed by citizens and that this high level of protection can be achieved.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. our group very much welcomes this valuable own-initiative report. parliament will send an important political message to the commission, but also to the member states, business and civil society. consumer organisations and consumer rights are important core values of the european union. i am pleased that the principle of partnership and solidarity is to be passed on to the new countries, which has been growing and becoming a matter of course in the eu-15 over many years. however, the eu-15 can also learn from the eu-10. i would also appeal to the old member states to continue to give due weight to consumer protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on the contrary, let us give more weight to the consumer's voice in our decisions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the report by bernard lehideux, on behalf of the committee on development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of accompanying measures for acp sugar protocol states affected by the reform of the eu sugar regime (com (2005) 0266 c6-0210/2005 2005/0117 (cod)) (a6-0281/2005).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i thank you very much for your report, mr lehideux. i'm afraid that's all there was. by that i mean that we are facing the reality that the 18 countries that signed the sugar protocol will only have 40 million euros available in 2006 as compensation - but at least in the first reading and hopefully ready to be paid in time, although we all know that it is not enough. how much is being wasted on our sugar growers! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. money was apparently no problem at all. but i'll even give it to our sugar farmers. however, i would say to you, with regard to the acp states, that our policy is directly contributing to the political and social destabilisation of some of these mostly small island states. they are ready for reform, diversification, modernisation. but if they get 36% less subsidies in four years, they won't be able to cope. i have been to guyana and other countries. in guyana, almost two thirds of jobs depend directly or indirectly on sugar. nobody can get the curve in four years. if this country is then politically or socially destabilized, please do not wonder how that happens. because that's how we make our policy here. i'll put that on the record, and when it does, don't let anyone say it came as a surprise. in jamaica, only 10% of jobs depend on sugar. but we already have a huge crime rate there this year, 1,400 murders per 2 million inhabitants. if i add up that to germany, we would have had over 50,000 homicides. we only have about 300 . that's the social situation there. if we then provoke an additional 10% unemployment, we should not be surprised if stability is lost in jamaica as well.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this report shows the need for qualified market access for products from third world countries. that means they're paid on our terms so they can develop their economies. it also shows how disastrous and dangerous is the liberalisation with its colonial logic, whereby the former colonies have to supply us with cheap food and we then sell them industrial products. this liberalization creates hunger and poverty and costs billions. the necessary quantities could have been returned administratively without these funds. mr gahler, look carefully, 10% of these billions of dollars go to the sugar beet growers, the rest goes to the restructuring fund for the sugar industry. what a scandal! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the report by mr koterec, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on direct state aid as an instrument of regional development (2004/2255 (ini)) (a6-0364/2005).
member of the commission. madam president, the review of the regional aid rules is an integral part of the general reform of state aid policy, as was mentioned by the rapporteur. the overall objective is to adjust the state aid rules to the new approach to the structural funds for 2007-2013, and to give practical effect to the conclusions of the european council, which call for less and better targeted state aid. regional aid reform implies strict control of the more distortive aids by limiting the scope for investment aid for large firms to the regions most in need, in particular, as regards very large investment projects. the reform also allows member states a sufficient degree of flexibility to design aid matters to promote the realisation of the lisbon objectives and targets. that additional flexibility is just one of the elements which was introduced into the package as a result of consultation, including my discussions with the committee on regional development. our approach is coherent with the state aid action plan, which recognises the need to allow regional aid in order to promote cohesion and convergence but emphasises that this should be targeted on the regions most in need. let me reiterate the importance of the principle of concentration. if the aid is spread too thinly and too widely, it simply will not help the regions most in need. we also provide for limited additional coverage, which is put at the disposal of the member states concerned. naturally, we expect member states to target that aid on the areas most in need at national level and it is up to them to identify those areas. when i read the report, i feel bound to say that we are being asked to spread this form of aid too widely. the assumption seems to be that areas which are not eligible for regional aid are not eligible for any form of state aid. allow me to correct that impression: according to the latest state aid scoreboard, the type of aid we are talking about today – regional aid – makes up less than 20% of all state aid granted in the eu, excluding the agricultural, fisheries and transport sectors. those regions not eligible for regional aid will continue to receive other forms of support through the horizontal aid measures that are covered by the state aid action plan: aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development, innovation, training, employment and risk capital. following a very extensive consultation process, i believe we are moving towards a global compromise that should meet the legitimate concerns of the vast majority of member states. no compromise is perfect and some limited adjustments to the text are always possible. however, i will study your proposals very carefully before putting a final package before the college next week for adoption. however, it will not be possible significantly to modify the overall balance that has been struck in the guidelines; otherwise we would risk upsetting the large majority of member states which welcome and support our text, and might call the whole exercise into question.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the support of enterprises by state aid is one of the factors influencing the decision of enterprises to invest in a given area and thus also contributing to economic growth and job creation in that area. it is understandable that these aids are mainly used in the most deprived areas of the european union, but they contribute - like the structural funds - to reducing regional disparities, which is why they should also be used as a priority in the convergence regions referred to in article 87 (3a). however, the same regime must also apply to regions subject to the statistical effect, as already called for in the third cohesion report on economic and social cohesion, until the end of the 2013 planning period. the obligation to maintain investments in the regions concerned must be at least i emphasise: at least five years after the end of the measure. seven years would have been better, five years is the minimum in this respect, to avoid any investment-hopping. this five-year period should be applied to both large companies and smes in order to avoid the use of state aid to encourage the relocation of jobs to another part of the eu and to finance large-scale redundancies and closures of establishments. indeed, if properly applied, monitored and analysed, such aid can be a valuable contribution to growth and job creation.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to take just two key words from this complex and very sensitive subject. the keyword of relocation is that nobody in this european union wants companies to move their premises just to get aid. but in each member state there have already been investments where the regions were happy to pay state aid supported by the european union. we need clear, transparent but fair and supportive rules. that is what the report calls for and i hope that the commission will contribute to that. the second point is the statistical effect regions. mr berend has already touched on this. i do not understand why commissioner hübner has always supported us in our decision, supported by a large majority, to treat the statistical impact regions as objective 1 regions for the whole period up to 2013, and then mrs kroes proposes a completely different idea and wants to split it in two. i hope that the commission will come to realise that parliament has good ideas from time to time and is therefore right to support the statistical impact regions.
i should just like to remind the house that mrs de brún sometimes starts and ends her speeches in irish, for which there is not yet any interpretation. she knows that, we know that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the written declaration (article 142)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! the fact that the chamber is so beautifully decorated is not because of the achievements of the british presidency, but because we are about to welcome the sakharov prize winners, who have done such a great job of promoting human rights throughout the world. mr president-in-office, you are a little late. i'm not criticizing you, but it just shows that you're subject to human standards. but it shows symbolically that the council is usually late in coming up with the political substance of progress for europe, and we wish the council to get up a little earlier in the morning so that we can get good results for europe. (applause from the centre) the president of the european parliament said, to great applause, that it would be good if we were informed of what was happening. mr president-in-office, if you are not presenting your proposals on the financial perspective until 12 noon, then you have probably put that time behind this debate because you want the outcome of this debate to be incorporated into your proposals. i hope that happens. the epp-ed group wants a result for the financial perspective, but this result must be acceptable, and that is the decisive thing for us. we therefore want a satisfactory result, because europe needs to succeed again after the difficulties we have had in various fields. we would point out, mr president-in-office, that we have nothing to present at this stage. you mentioned that the president of the european council, tony blair, made an eloquent speech. that is true, and in my group in particular, many people applauded at the time - perhaps more than in the group to which tony blair belongs politically. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and i am sure that the european parliament will be a very active participant in the process of european integration. the parliamentary cooperation was good, but style alone is not enough. if the political substance does not match the style, the substance remains bad, and we must criticize it, and that is why we hope that you will come to results in brussels tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. we have heard from the british prime minister, the president of the european council, that more needs to be done in research. yes, that's right. but when i look at the proposals of the british presidency, what is now being provided for research is below what jean-claude juncker has proposed to us. what is the logic of british action? (applause from the centre) for us it is a decisive measure and we are all happy to have representatives from eight central european countries who joined the european union on 1 may 2004. the council has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. if this solidarity is not maintained, we will be forced to reject a council proposal. we believe that the solidarity and community of europeans must be paramount and that there must be no first- or second-class europeans. mr president of the commission, we would like to acknowledge that you have written a letter to the british president of the council dated 12 december. what you express in it is supported by us. mr president-in-office, the british rebate is out of date! that's why it has to be mined, with the goal that one day it will disappear altogether. we know, of course, that this is linked to agricultural policy. that is why we are also in favour of an audit clause in the sense that the entire budget of the european union for 2008-2009 is subject to a review. but what must not happen is that in the end the central europeans who need our solidarity the most will have to pay the price for the british rebate. it is not in your interest, it is not in our interest, and it will not find our approval. (applause from the centre) we also demand that the european parliament be taken seriously in its legislative powers. when we hear that money is promised to the hungarians for housing, for example, we remind them that this is a matter for the european parliament, because we have to legislate to achieve this. take the european parliament seriously and take our reform objectives seriously! we want to achieve that we can exercise our rights in foreign and domestic policy, and we will not allow the council to override our rights. we are on your side on iran. there must be a clear signal against ahmadinejad and for israel, for israel's right to exist. the fact that the european union has not yet adopted a position on the question of the status of the palestinian people is a serious indication of the seriousness of the situation in the occupied territories. in the case of iran, raise your voice against ahmadinejad and for peace in the middle east! you have us on your side on that one. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. it is time we addressed the british presidency of the council. it is time we addressed the policy of the european council. 'we need a strong european union that is capable of acting, and i am ready to fight for that strong union that is capable of acting,' wrote josé manuel durão barroso to the council in the letter you quoted, mr poettering. i had an interesting telephone conversation with mr barroso the other day. i had called him after an interview with the süddeutsche zeitung, which i liked, and said: "that's a nice interview. i'm glad to hear that. then, i must admit, he made a pointed remark to me on the phone. he said, "anytime you criticize me, you write it in the paper, anytime you praise me, you call me. praise me in public too!" i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. (applause from the centre) that's the way to go. you fight! you have an overwhelming majority in the european parliament for your line and against the line we have heard from the council lately. the council's line does not bring europe forward, but it brings europe into a situation of disunity rather than cohesion. the european parliament will not accept that! (applause from the centre) i want to refer to what douglas alexander said here; the council president referred to what the president of the council said six months ago. yes, that is all right, and we have heard everything that the president of the council has said to us. he said an important phrase which mr douglas did not quote, but i will quote it again. he said: if there is a crisis of european institutions, it is because europe lacks leadership. five and a half months later, mr president-in-office, i have the impression that this is still the case. i would like to tell you what my group thinks. the council presidency, not just the british presidency, has always said the same thing: 'don't talk too loudly about europe', as the council presidents tell us. do not promote europe too much, it is not attractive to our peoples. it is clear that if the heads of state and government are constantly talking badly about europe, they should not be surprised if the people of europe have the impression that the heads of state and government are right. (applause from the centre) they are complaining about a state of affairs in the council which they themselves have brought about. we are tired of this, to put it bluntly. this can't go on. there is no crisis of the european institutions as a whole: the european parliament acts, it decides, perhaps not always correctly. and yet, for example, a few days ago we reached a very good compromise on chemicals policy. this is what this european parliament has done. the commission may not always be right, it is certainly not always right, but it is acting. it's active. the only permanent disagreement in europe is the council of heads of state or government, which is now so far along that it cannot even set a common agenda without fear of a veto. if there is a crisis in europe, it is first and foremost a crisis of the european council, and i hope that it will not be repeated this weekend. (applause from the centre) the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. i was born on the german-dutch-belgian border. when mr spaak or the dutch prime minister or the luxembourg prime minister went there 60 years ago and said that the germans would receive more marshall plan funds, that we must rebuild this country, that we must form the european coal and steel community, i do not think that all the luxembourgers, belgians, dutchmen or frenchmen applauded. you also said, "what?" the ones on the other side, the ones who were just here, they destroyed our country, killed millions of people, and now they're supposed to get more money? the women and men who led the governments of that time said: 'if you want peace in europe, you need integration.' he's got to go this way. and we walk it because we believe it. that's why we now call these men and women statesmen and name our buildings after them. yes, europe has been led by statesmen. but i have the impression that today it is run by merchants whose only aim is to calculate how much they get out of this project. (applause from the centre) that is why the european summit this weekend is an important summit. it's not just about you selling the new math in europe. i've learned now, there's a new mathematics now. the reduced increase is already the reduction. that's not true. a slight increase in the british rebate is not a reduction in the same. this is certainly not going to bring about any agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. one comment on this financial framework: my colleague walter is always a wonderful analyst of what is put on the table. the proposals of the european parliament, in the böge report, give the agricultural policy a total share of 40% in the financial perspective for the next seven years. the british proposal is 44%. we are more modern in our proposals than the council is putting on the table now! this is clear when it comes to modern politics. now, because i personally care about the british presidency of the council, because my labour colleagues are my friends and i like mr douglas very much, i want to do something i do not normally do, namely speak english: to avoid any misunderstanding, i will now speak in english. six months ago, mr alexander, we all applauded when the president-in-office of the council set out his vision for reform, including great investment in research, education and the hi-tech future for our union, and you repeated it today. in preparing these remarks today, i recalled what i learned at school about the united kingdom: april 10, 1912 was the date of another launch of a hi-tech future for europe. the crowds applauded enthusiastically, as they did when tony blair spoke here five months ago. they applauded enthusiastically as the symbol of that hi-tech future sailed from southampton. the symbol was, of course, the titanic. today, we are on the good ship british presidency. the captain is not edward john smith, but anthony charles lynton blair. our captain has a huge advantage over poor mr smith. the iceberg is staring him in the face, but he still has time to avoid it. to avoid this iceberg, mr alexander, you have to sail in the direction of the bow report. to be absolutely clear, let me give you our iceberg coordinates: certainly not 1.03%. that is the centre of the iceberg. do not sail in this direction or the good ship british presidency and its crew will be lost. choose another route and do it urgently. i very much hope that by the end of the week captain blair will have avoided the iceberg and steered the british presidency towards a safe harbour and a secure financial future for the european union. mr alexander, that is what i wish. then you will have a successful british presidency. otherwise we will fail altogether in europe. (sustained applause)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not it is perhaps not the right time to go into the substance of this proposal in any further detail. but let me say that i have received hundreds of emails, not serial letters, but individual emails, and 58 000 verified signatures from citizens all over europe expressing their deepest concerns. this is the much-quoted public that is so desperate for data retention! the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has taken these concerns seriously and has achieved a balance between freedom and security in its amendments. the time constraint does not justify the way some of us are trying to do things. if this project is important to the citizens of europe and not just a favour to the british presidency of the council, then we should proceed with caution. otherwise we create a prejudice where the council only has to shout to parliament: 'spring!' and we shout back: 'how high?' under great pressure, there are many things that can be achieved. for millions of years, nature has produced the most beautiful diamonds. but under great pressure, a lemon can quickly become a mere sap and a mud. it is up to us whether this parliament is a diamond or a lemon. i would like to ask you to support the requests of your committee so that this parliament can remain a diamond. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i cannot support this report with my name and i withdraw it. (parliament adopted the resolution)
in writing. i have, after careful examination of my conscience, agreed to the report, hoping that the data will be used by the official bodies only in accordance with our rules, knowing that not all member states are aware of the principle of judicial review, knowing that here parliament has considerably weakened the proposal of the council and the commission, convinced that parliament has sufficiently protected the rights of citizens. i'll ask for a statistic on the access of the authorities after two years.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, over the last few weeks we have heard and read a lot about the alleged use of european airspace, airports and countries by the united states in its global war on terror, so i welcome this afternoon’s debate. it allows this parliament to discuss one of the fundamental issues facing european governments and institutions in the 21st century: the balance to be struck between security and liberty in a world characterised in part by mass-casualty terrorism. i hope the debate will help illuminate the key issues involved, including how to tackle the unprecedented threat we all face from international terrorism, how to ensure respect for the international rule of law at the same time, and how every day member states have to take hard decisions to maintain the balance between security and liberty and take responsibility for those decisions. i hope too that the debate can demonstrate respect for the word of other governments, the benefits of informed discussion and a sense of proportion. in so doing, parliament will be able to make a valuable and credible contribution to the larger debate about how to safeguard our security and liberty simultaneously. as honourable members of this parliament will know, allegations have been made in the european and international media and elsewhere concerning us detention facilities in europe and the use of aircraft to transfer terrorist suspects between countries in order to interrogate them using torture and ill-treatment. these reports prompted discussion amongst european union foreign ministers at the general affairs council meeting on 21 november. as a result, the presidency wrote on 29 november to the us secretary of state, condoleezza rice, on behalf of european union partners, seeking the views of the united states government on these allegations. on 5 december the united states secretary of state made a detailed public statement on the matter in advance of her visit to europe. the presidency has forwarded that reply to european union colleagues and i have today provided a copy of the reply to president borrell fontelles. some european union colleagues were able to discuss this matter with secretary of state rice last week in brussels. the united kingdom has expressed its satisfaction with the us statement. i understand some other european union colleagues have also made public comments upon the statement by secretary of state rice. the council welcomes the detailed statement by the us secretary of state, for all european countries share the determination of the united states to protect innocent citizens from the threat of terrorism, while operating within international law. let us be clear about the threat our people face from the modern terrorist. europe has faced terrorism for many years. i do not need to relate the names of the organisations and individuals concerned, but none of us have had to face the kind of threat we face – now and in the long term – from al-qa’ida and its supporters. modern terrorism means mass-casualty attacks. we have seen them in new york, washington, istanbul, madrid, and recently in london and in numerous other cities around the world. honourable members will recall that, just a few years ago, strasbourg was also the target of a thwarted attack. today we are exposed to fanatical suicide attacks on innocent civilians using modern techniques and technology previously confined to states but now available to individuals on the internet. that is a picture we face for the foreseeable future. our people need protecting against it; our governments have a clear responsibility to provide that protection. it is a responsibility that requires governments to make difficult decisions, take concrete action and explain and defend those decisions and that action. the european security strategy adopted in 2003 emphasised that transnational terrorism and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction pose a threat we cannot ignore. however, at the same time, in seeking responses to these new challenges, it is essential that the rule of law and the human rights of individuals are respected. the question of torture is a key element of this debate. torture is abhorrent. the prohibition against it is absolute. the british government – like all european governments – unreservedly condemns it. we never use it; we never instigate or condone it; we condemn it utterly, and we work hard with others to eradicate it. secretary of state rice’s statement of 5 december makes clear that the policy of the united states government is to comply with the un convention against torture, that the united states government complies with its constitution, its laws and its treaty obligations. she goes on to say that acts of physical or mental torture are expressly prohibited, that the united states government does not authorise or condone torture of detainees and that torture and conspiracy to commit torture are crimes under us law wherever they may occur in the world. the council welcomes this statement. it is right that the word of another sovereign government – expressed so clearly on such an important issue – is respected within a larger discussion on the balance between security and liberty. as secretary of state rice herself said on 5 september, that debate in and among democracies is natural and healthy. that must be right and this parliament can and has made a contribution to that debate. i understand that, in the light of the allegations, the secretary-general of the council of europe has requested from the member states of that international organisation an explanation of how they ensure the effective implementation of the provisions of the european convention on human rights. i am sure that member states will want to cooperate with the council of europe. informed exchanges on issues like this are important, including for the benefit of our people who look to their governments and institutions for a lead. i look forward to hearing your views and those of commissioner frattini on this important subject.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all the european commission feels it is its moral, institutional and political duty to ensure that the fundamental rights of every person are always respected and defended without any exceptions or derogations. torture and inhuman treatment are a denial of the values on which the european union was founded and which it is still based. secondly, i would like to reiterate the crucial and strategic importance of joint action and close cooperation between the european union and the united states of america in the fight against terrorism. all democratic nations in europe, the united states and other international partners must, together, defend their common values against the greatest threat of this century: the international terrorism. as minister alexander has just said, i welcome the formal statement by the us secretary of state condoleezza rice that the united states of america does not tolerate, and indeed punishes, torture both on american soil and outside it, in every part of the world. as you can see, this is a commitment statement, a commitment to behaviour. in the united states - and this is also the proof of the great american democracy - there has been a public debate in congress, in the senate, on the american free press, and this is also something we have to think about and look at, because europe is also participating in this international debate on this great issue. thirdly, there is a need to establish the truth of allegations derived from journalistic sources, which, if proven, could have serious political consequences, since they constitute a serious breach of the treaty. to ascertain, ladies and gentlemen, is to obtain evidence: without evidence, according to the rules of the rule of law, no accusation can be considered ascertained, and until the evidence is acquired i myself have a duty to respect the word and therefore also the denial that all the governments i have consulted so far and i say so far have provided. this does not exclude our common desire for truth, but it is clear, as i said to the libe committee the other night, that i cannot doubt, without proof to the contrary, the credibility of legitimate and democratic governments in the countries of the european union and the candidate countries. i cannot consider that there are any european countries which are 'accused', i say this in quotes and i say this in particular to our polish and romanian friends. there is a duty to ascertain whether abuses and torture have been committed throughout europe. we cannot point to this or that country as a target, as an accused, as a defendant. if torture or inhuman treatment has been carried out, we have a duty to verify this throughout the european union. some european countries, as you know, have launched national investigations. some governments have done so, for example the portuguese and polish governments, as have the judicial authorities of member states such as my own, italy, spain, germany and others. these judicial authorities are conducting investigations with the powers of the judiciary and it is clear that we await with respect and without any possibility of interference the conclusions of these judicial investigations. i met yesterday with the secretary general of the council of europe. i met him last night and confirmed to him the support of the commission and my staff for the inquiry he has initiated under article 52 of the european convention on human rights against all 46 member countries of the council of europe. i also confirmed to mr davis the commission's strong support for the second parallel inquiry launched by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. mr marty, who is the rapporteur, deserves public appreciation for the work he is doing. as you probably know, the secretary-general will conclude his inquiry on 21 february 2006 and dr marty will present a first report on his inquiry to the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe by january 2006. i have asked, through commissioners barrot and ferrero-waldner, that eurocontrol's data on flight plans over european territory and all possible useful data collected by the european satellite tracking centre be made available to the council of europe for its investigation. there is currently no evidence to support the allegations, but we must continue - and i will continue - to work closely with the council of europe and this parliament to find the truth. it is not for me to say what instrument parliament will choose for this joint work, i will simply say that when we talk of inquiry, we need powers of inquiry, of questioning, of investigation and of inspection, and it is obviously for you to decide whether or not these powers are provided for, as the legal service of parliament seems to indicate. in any case, seeking the truth means for me not only identifying any abuses and then drawing the appropriate consequences, but also clearing the field of negative prejudices and suspicions that otherwise risk undermining our due international action to combat terrorism. in conclusion, therefore, if there is any doubt or evidence that abuses and torture have been committed in europe, we will certainly be weaker in the face of the terrorists and the anti-democratic propaganda of the terrorists. that's why we must know the truth, that's why we must do so as loyal friends and allies of the united states of america, but always as jealous guardians of our common values.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to make two preliminary remarks. firstly, the epp-ed group considers itself a partner and friend of the united states of america. this debate and the debate on the subject are not conducive to anti-american resentment, but we must look at the matter and judge it according to our principles. secondly, the fight against terrorism is one of the greatest challenges of our time. terrorists want to spread fear and terror, they want to intimidate. our answer to that is: we will not be intimidated! we will fight terrorism with all our strength and determination! there can be no compromise with terrorists. but there can be no compromise when human dignity, human rights and the rule of law are at stake. our system of values, our community of values, must not be subjected to legal and political opportunism. the principles on which our democratic order of values is based must never be abandoned. these principles are what distinguish us from the terrorists. the terrorists would win if we used their methods, which means trampling on the law. the fight against terrorism must be conducted by the means of the law and with due regard for the principles of human dignity and human rights. this means that if a person is suspected of terrorism, the only way to prove that he is a terrorist is to put that person on trial under the rule of law. we must never allow kidnapping and abduction, unlawful detention and torture. the european parliament, the european union, the member states of the european union and the council of europe - no state on earth can allow this! the rapporteur of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, swiss member of parliament dick marty, said yesterday - and i quote a major german newspaper - that the information he had so far gives the impression that citizens were being transported illegally to european countries and temporarily detained there. mr marty says, in his own words: 'it should be noted that the united states has never formally denied the allegations.' if the us secretary of state says that the us will not accept torture, then we welcome that. but this is not proof that there was no abduction of persons, and that is why we are calling for clarification and transparency. it's crucial for us that the truth comes out. we have always held that view. we have always criticized guantanamo even before the us supreme court came to its decision. i can say for us here in the european parliament that we can be proud of the fact that we have defended human rights in guantánamo and that the us supreme court has reached the same conclusion. but, for all the criticism of the intelligence services and it must now be clarified what really happened we need intelligence services! we also need american intelligence, including the cia, because we know that the cia and these intelligence agencies are helping us. for example, if a german woman is kidnapped in iraq, as is happening now, we need the support of the intelligence services. but i say with all my determination and with all my resolve that even intelligence agencies must be based on the rule of law. human dignity and human rights are our highest value. where they are hurt, we must raise our voices. and if it is not clear whether human rights are being violated, then we must investigate. that is why our group is in favour of close cooperation with the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and also of setting up, where appropriate, a non-permanent committee to help defend human rights and human dignity. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i agree with mr poettering that we must clarify and not prejudge. the main issue is whether the institutions of the european union or its member states were actively or passively involved in the establishment of extralegal prisons and in the use of interrogation methods that must be described as torture. both extralegal detentions and interrogation methods in the form of torture would be in breach of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the council of europe's convention on human rights and the convention against torture, which all the member states of the european union and all the candidate countries have ratified. it is not the task of the european parliament - and i agree with franco frattini - to examine a single country or a single candidate country, but to give us a picture of the situation in europe as a whole. the best place to do this is the european parliament. but if we do this, we are not free from the experience of the past. we need intelligence services, and you are right, mr poettering. on the contrary, more than ever, modern methods of investigation must be used. the infiltration of organizations whose actions are designed to undermine and destroy our system of values, who do not shy away from any kind of destruction of values and of lives, is indispensable, everyone knows that. it is also well known that the road police are not the only means of combating these organizations. the secret services are not transparent, god knows. that's why they call them intelligence. and that it is necessary from time to time for them to work in secret, everyone knows. but that the united states of america and its present government do not always take such a strict view of international law is well known! for me, the decision to go to war in iraq was a decision outside of international law. the decision to go to war was a disaster, and the war itself is a disaster. that you then naturally have no overwhelming confidence in the intelligence services of a country where the government is already acting a little outside the public legality, or at least gives this impression, is also true. now you can create trust-building measures. a confidence-building measure is to put the facts on the table, to say who flew where, when and for what reasons. in what way was he captured? on what legal basis was he captured? what led to his capture? where was he taken, and in what manner was he questioned? if those answers show that everything is within the legal framework, fine. but if the answers - which we do not hope to find - are such that we have to establish that the institutions of the european union or its member states have actively or passively contributed to the extralegal arrest of people, the operation of extrajudicial prisons and torture, then sanctions must follow. so, no prejudgment, just a list of questions to which we expect clear answers. we shall not ask for a temporary committee to examine this question, mr president, but we shall ask for one at the conference of presidents today. i assume that the epp group and all the other groups agree with this.
mr president, it is up to the political groups to decide whether to shed light on these allegations at a time when everyone is feeling very uncomfortable. the committee on civil liberties will take account as far as possible of the indications given by the political groups. i am personally convinced that we must return to four essential points. firstly, it is a question of examining the question of illegal extraditions. has the united states engaged in this practice on suspected terrorists? can it be considered legal if it has been implemented in the european union? in these circumstances, it will be necessary to bear in mind article 6 of the treaty on european union, articles 2, 3, 6 and 8 of the european convention on human rights, in particular as regards judicial guarantees, but also the provisions of the agreement between the united states and the european union on judicial cooperation in criminal matters and on extradition, as well as the bilateral agreements relating thereto. in considering this question, account will have to be taken of the problems raised by illegal abductions and the treatment of prisoners. secondly, has this practice been implemented in the community since 1 january 2002? have flights been arranged to transfer persons suspected of terrorist acts? where were they held? what was their status? in order to answer all these questions, mr president, the committee on civil liberties has a legal basis, in annex 6 to its rules of procedure, which defines its powers, for triggering the alert system in the event of a risk of violation of fundamental rights. the commission could therefore start work if the political groups give it the opportunity and carry out its work in agreement with the council of europe or at any rate cooperate with the temporary committee which will be set up. however, i beg you not to wait.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the debate on what is and is not permissible in the legitimate fight against terrorism has also been raging in the united states since the horrific images of abu ghraib. i would like to repeat explicitly on behalf of my group what has been said by various groups. we welcome the efforts of senator mccain and other colleagues in the american congress to prohibit torture. torture is un-american. but it is also un-european and therefore it is also permissible to ask why, for example, switzerland has refused seven times to grant military aircraft overflight rights, apparently because of suspicions of illegal prisoner transfers. what about the other countries, what intelligence do they have? why has only the danish foreign ministry so far taken action by declaring that acts which violate international conventions are not allowed to take place in danish airspace? what about the other european countries? we also have a role model for other countries in the world where there is no democracy, where human rights are threatened. we must set an example, and we must do so at all times! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yesterday, council of europe investigator dick marty said that the suspicion that the cia has used the airspace and territories of european countries on many occasions to transport prisoners to secret locations for interrogation was confirmed. i am encouraged by this, because our parliament must immediately set up a committee to investigate all the allegations. the most serious accusations in the public sphere are directed against the united states and against member states of the european union. it's about kidnapping and torturing people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet resolved. neither the us government nor the european governments concerned have so far responded adequately. in the interests of our citizens, in the interests of the credibility of the union in its international commitment to respect for human rights, full explanations are necessary. there must be no lawless spaces in the european union! as representatives of the citizens of the european union, we have a duty to shine a light on the dark. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. the prohibition of torture is one of the minimum standards of human rights which every state must strictly observe. the prohibition of torture is a binding part of international law and one of the fundamental values of the european union. has the government of a member state actively assisted or even allowed people to be abducted by the united states in the so-called war on terror to be tortured in secret locations? if so, then this government has abandoned the basic consensus on which the european union and membership of the european union are based, and this is precisely what needs to be examined in detail. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! this is a very important and fundamental question. first of all, we must recognize that, despite all the criticisms we have made, the fight against terrorism is of enormous importance and that europe and america must cooperate closely on this issue. the fight against terrorism can, in my view, only be won if it is conducted on the basis of the rule of law and human rights. now we have to see whether these conditions have been violated or not. that's why it's imperative that we get evidence of this. in order to avoid any question about the credibility of the west as a whole, it is important that any wrongdoing - if it has occurred - is brought to the table quickly and that no salami tactics are used. because otherwise we have a credibility problem for many months, which we had after secretary powell's presentation to the united nations security council in connection with the iraq war and other cases. it is the question of the credibility of the west as a whole that we must see and in whose interest we must act responsibly together very quickly, so that our own possibilities are not destroyed. i think it is good that the council and the commission - commissioner frattini has made a clear statement on this in the two committees previously responsible - in the context of the council of europe and on the specific mandate of the council of europe, are trying to clarify this matter, which can then also feed into the work of the temporary committee which will probably be decided upon. but with all the problems we have, we also have to see that these are not lines that run between europe and america, but that we are having discussions both in europe and in america, and that we have an ally, namely the american senate, which at the request of senator mccain decided by 98 votes: torture must not be an instrument in the fight against terrorism. this is also a demonstration of the capacity of these other great democracies on the other side of the atlantic. and here we should start: the democrats and the rule of law in europe and america have the capacity to fight terrorism together, but at the same time also the capacity to do so under credible conditions and in accordance with the rule of law. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the liberal group welcomes the progress made in the efforts of bulgaria and romania to join the european union. we will continue to support both countries in this process, but we will also be watching very closely how both countries fulfil their responsibilities as candidates. both countries - as my group has repeatedly stressed - must be assessed on the basis of their own performance and independently of each other. the next commission progress report on the two countries will be presented in the spring. this will take place in a changed climate, as mr millán mon has mentioned, because the union is in a constitutional crisis. the debate on this will take place in mid-2006. the efforts of both countries to become as effective and efficient as possible are all the more important now that they are at the end of the road, because the european union needs such members. the european union's own reception capacity and thus the future of enlargement policy are also at stake. the council's debate on macedonia is symptomatic of this changed climate. let me say a few words specifically about bulgaria: we have a balanced document from mr van orden which acknowledges the efforts of the bulgarian government. it points to the economic dynamism with average growth rates of 4%, but also makes very clear where bulgaria still needs to make progress. an important part of the text from the committee on foreign affairs: it calls on high-ranking officials in bulgaria to publicly distance themselves from any form of corruption and to support the creation of rules for the disclosure of their finances and income. this would lead to greater transparency and increase trust. the liberal group wants romania and bulgaria to join the eu in 2007. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we recognize the work of both countries. we are concerned, however, about several critical points in the commission's report. we have tabled our amendments to the van orden report on the environment and human rights, and unfortunately they have been rejected. as regards the date of the closure of the kosloduy nuclear power station, mr rehn, i would like to ask you what the commission's view is on paragraph 29, which provides for greater flexibility in relation to the closure of units 3 and 4. what are the alternative sources of energy envisaged? our parliament is involved in the deliberations on the application of the safeguard clauses. we will take a critical view of accession and will base our decision on the state of progress of the reforms in the judicial system, the fight against corruption, the protection of children and the protection and integration of the roma.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! romania and bulgaria are among the 12 countries which we invited after the fall of the wall and the barbed wire. they are part of that group - and we must not forget that in all the considerations we are making - and that is why they belong in that basket. the treaty is concluded, but the treaty with these countries is each provided with protective clauses. it is therefore extremely important that we see how the timetable is being respected, how the commission's report is being presented in the spring. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this may be the case for both countries, it may not be the case for either country, or it may be the case for either country. this is something which is completely indecisive, but we should be clear that there must be no automaticity in the eyes of our citizens, according to the motto: whoever has started the negotiations is automatically in at the desired moment. that is why it is necessary to implement the areas mentioned by the commissioner in his last report, in his letter - i believe it was dated 9 november - to the governments of the two countries and which the president of the council has also mentioned here today, such as corruption, organised crime, border security, food security in the context of the european internal market, consequences for the internal market itself, the question of the rule of law and the development of the administration and the judicial system. it is not just a matter of this being decided in law, that is, by the commission and in the reports which colleagues moscovici and van orden have thankfully presented to this house today. we should now put the necessary pressure and provide the necessary support to ensure that these countries meet the conditions. but accession is only possible if they meet these conditions, and it is entirely up to them to make the necessary progress.
the next item is question time (b6-0343/2005). we shall deal with the following questions to the council. questions 2 to 8 will not be dealt with because they relate to a subject which was on the agenda this afternoon. question no 9 by elizabeth lynne (h-0985/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: working time directivein his speech to the european parliament on 26 october, in the run-up to the next informal european council, the president of the council stated: 'as regards the working time directive, i hope that we can reach agreement under the uk presidency.' what exactly has the british presidency done to achieve this objective and what progress has been made?
president-in-office of the council. i fear i must simply reiterate the point that i made in my earlier answer that no proposals have been received by the council from the commission in relation to this matter. i would respectfully suggest that, if this is a matter which she feels is more appropriately directed towards the presidency rather than the commission, it might be a matter she would wish to raise with our successors, the austrian presidency.
as the author is not present, question no 10 is inadmissible. question no 11 by mr bernd posselt (h-0991/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu-macedonia how does the council assess the situation in macedonia and what are the next steps in the process of accession of that country to the european union?
president-in-office of the council. on 9 november, the commission presented its opinion on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and its application for european union membership, and recommended that it be granted candidate country status. the european council next week is likely to assess the opinion with a view to establishing the european union’s position. the commission’s opinion notes the important progress achieved by fyrom. less than five years ago, the stability of fyrom was threatened by an internal conflict. fortunately, the country is today engaged in a constructive drive for european union membership. the commission’s opinion notes that fyrom is now a functioning democracy, with stable institutions generally guaranteeing the rule of law. important steps have been taken towards establishing a functioning market economy, and fyrom is likely to be able to take on most of the obligations of membership in the medium term, provided that considerable efforts are made in its alignment with the acquis. although important progress has been made, it is clear that there are many areas where more and harder work is now needed: the effective implementation of the ohrid framework agreement must continue, public administration and institutions should be strengthened, the rule of law has to improve, including through a determined fight against crime and corruption, and the economy needs to develop. the council’s recommendation to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia at this stage is to stay focused on reforms and to implement fully all the measures identified in the new european partnership.
the council has already taken a decision on this. i would like to ask you, in addition, what the european union is doing in practice to combat youth unemployment and the lack of prospects for young people in macedonia, and whether it will also provide the country with substantial economic aid. because very vague accession prospects alone will not help the country. what is the situation with regard to the mobility of young people, particularly in terms of study and training opportunities in the european union?
president-in-office of the council. in the course of our presidency, i myself have had the opportunity to travel to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and meet directly with the deputy prime minister of that country. that meeting afforded me the opportunity to discuss with her the very ambitious plans she had for continued economic reform. i believe that the kind of economic reforms of which i spoke in my initial answer is the surest foundation on which to tackle the kind of youth unemployment of which the honourable member speaks. in relation to the specific financial contribution that the european union is making to that country for the year 2005, the european union will provide eur 34.5 million intended to support its european integration reform agenda, as well as an additional eur 2.8 million for cross-border cooperation. between 1992 and 2004 the european union committed some eur 736 million to the country.
question no 12 has been withdrawn by the author, so we shall not be dealing with it. question no 13 by mrs fiona hall (h-0997/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: energy efficiency and the seat of the edp council has stated that it wishes to see the public sector set an example in the field of energy efficiency at the end-use level. does the council share the view that the european parliament's monthly commute between brussels and strasbourg is an example of inefficient use of energy in the public sector, and what measures does the council propose to remedy this, given that it alone has the power to decide on the seat of the parliament?
president-in-office of the council. the honourable member who raised this question is not the first colleague from the eplp to do so. i perhaps have a clearer understanding of the potency of this issue for meps after taking up my responsibilities as minister for europe in the course of the presidency and having seen for myself the challenges that all members face in negotiating the journey between brussels and strasbourg on a monthly basis. i have to say, respectfully, however, that, given the sentiment within parliament this morning about the urgent and pressing need to find agreement on future financing, i am not entirely convinced that raising this issue with our colleagues from paris, at this particular stage, would be considered the most constructive contribution the british presidency could make to finding agreement on future financing.
i have to say, madam president, mr president-in-office, can you confirm that the european parliament has only one seat under the treaty? because it's wrong to say it has two seats. the only seat is strasbourg. we could easily abolish the mini-plenary sessions in brussels and save enormous amounts of energy. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community.
president-in-office of the council. in relation to this question, i would suggest that this is not a matter for the presidency. member states are signatories to conventions individually, rather than collectively. i would, however, refute the allegation that no action has been taken on the general issue of child welfare. over the past few years, the european union institutions, working with member states, have made significant progress on children’s rights. the european union charter of fundamental rights (2000) explicitly recognises the rights of children as fundamental to european values. article 24 of the charter is based on the united nations convention on the rights of the child (1989), which has been ratified by all member states of the european union.
president-in-office of the council. nobody is denying that there can be a community of values. what, i sense, is an issue between me and the honourable member is whether there is a legal basis for the council to take action in this regard. in that sense, i would simply reiterate the points that i have made previously, that i judge this not to be a matter for the presidency. member states are signatories to conventions individually, rather than collectively.
question no 21 is therefore inadmissible since the author is not present. question no 22 by chris davies (h-1026/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: reflection phase on the eu constitutional treaty when will the reflection phase, which was launched following the results of the referendums in the netherlands and france, be completed? is the council now ready to consider proposals for reforms contained in the eu constitutional treaty?
president-in-office of the council. if i can manage just under the wire before the conclusion, let me simply say this. kenneth clarke is a serious figure within the united kingdom, a figure well known to this chamber. he has described the modern british conservative party under its new leader as being faced with a proposal – and i quote directly – that is ‘head-banging’ in its extremism. he has said that the modern conservative party is more extreme than the conservative party under william hague or indeed iain duncan smith. it is up to the honourable members on the conservative benches in this chamber to decide whether to marginalise themselves further, not simply within the united kingdom, but also within the european union. i have already paid generous tribute to the work of one of the british conservatives in this chamber today, who through his role as a rapporteur in relation to the accession of one of the potential candidate countries of the european union, has undertaken important work on behalf of this parliament. the marginalisation of what was once a great political party, as envisaged by its new leader, would be a diminution not simply of the conservative party but of britain’s national interest. but ultimately it is not the only misjudgement they will make. i fear it will be the first of many by the new conservative leader.
question no 23 is obsolete because it concerns a problem which we have dealt with this afternoon. as the time allotted for question time has been used up, questions nos 24 to 54 will be answered in writing (for questions not dealt with, see the annex 'question time'). let me conclude with a personal remark. mr. minister, you have learned today that there is not only criticism in this house, but also praise for your work. i wish you success in your work, restful holidays and thank you for your cooperation. question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 8.10 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, before i come to the machinery directive, i would like to thank all those involved in the process, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs from the various other groups. you have been willing to make many compromises, for which i would like to express my gratitude. i would also like to thank the commissioner responsible, who is here today, for his willingness to compromise on many details which were extremely important to us as a parliament, which made it much easier for members to accept the common position in a slightly modified form. i would like to mention five points which we consider to be of paramount importance. the aim of this directive, which is not readily understandable to every citizen - this must be seen in a self-critical way - was to establish a better distinction with other directives. there is a problem, namely the tractor directive. tractors were not previously covered by the machinery directive at the same time and are now subject to a parallel taxation: on the one hand the tractor directive and on the other the machinery directive. this is a difficult double burden for manufacturers, which we would like to see eliminated. and then, of course, there is the tractor seat directive, mr verheugen, which - as you will know from reading the newspapers in germany - is not only regarded as an absolute bureaucratic monster in germany. i am therefore very grateful to you for working together towards this goal - perhaps not quite as fast as we all wish - in order to arrive at a simple rule: the tractor directive only for tractors and the machinery directive only for all other machinery. we must now make sure that we achieve this goal as quickly as possible. i would naturally like to see the completion of the tractor directive, including all risks not yet covered, within the 18-month period required for the transposition of the machinery directive in the member states. i know that such wishes cannot always be fulfilled at once, but i would like to mention the objective, namely 18 months to reach the deadline for implementation. there are, of course, a number of points on which i would have liked to have gone further as rapporteur. this is the case, for example, with the exclusion of harmless machines, such as wristwatches. i have, however, withdrawn my request in the end because of the massive concerns, especially of the commission, about the resulting security gaps. however, parliament has made considerable progress in the area of the protection of trade secrets compared with the common position, and i believe that this also applies to the disposal of machinery. of course, we all know that sustainable production is of great importance for europe, also from the point of view of the lisbon strategy. it was certainly right, however, not to impose a kind of blanket liability on manufacturers, who really cannot foresee how the disposal of machinery will actually proceed and who in many places are small and mediumsized enterprises. i also believe that we must go a long way together on the issue of certification, particularly third party certification, because the situation we found in the common position on ce marking was by no means acceptable to us as members of parliament. we do not think it is enough for the council to find itself on the lowest common denominator, even though many meetings were needed to draw up this common position, and to find formulaic compromises which are then reflected in language which no human being, no citizen, no smes can understand. we are aware of the difficulties, for example in connection with translation. however, our aim must be to produce legal texts - and that is what you personally stand for, mr verheugen - that are understandable to every citizen. i am glad that we have taken a small step forward in the ce marking. i think we are not going far enough, but you have explicitly included the new approach to ce marking in your 2006 work programme, and i do not want to complain about it for long. i believe that this is the right opportunity to regulate ce marking in a broader and more coherent way across all sectors equally, which would be beneficial and which would mean better regulation in my view. however, in fixing this legislation we must think again carefully about the purpose of ce marking in the european union, what quality and safety standards we associate with it and who has the task of monitoring these standards, because i believe that we still have a process of clarification and discussion with the member states in the field of market surveillance. it is not possible for the european union to be responsible if problems arise while the member states do not fully comply with their responsibilities as regards the time in which supervision is to be exercised. overall, thank you very much. i believe that we have made some progress towards better regulation and de-bureaucratisation, but we still have some further to go. i hope that the commission will make further proposals, particularly in the field of tractors, to ensure that better regulation is pursued successfully.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. one and a half years of debate in the council is certainly a long time. but of course, it's nothing compared to machine running times. as someone who has worked in the mechanical engineering industry for 20 years, i know how important this directive is also for the predictability of legislation. after the initial scepticism of many users, i believe that all concerns have now been more or less allayed. we have received the first letters of approval, and this is important because we want to work with the user and not with the head. the directive is important not only for users but also for millions of consumers, because it contains legislation which is of great importance for the health and safety of consumers. this revision was necessary, among other things, because previous directives were not sufficient, but also to improve the necessary legal certainty, to define the scope more precisely and to ensure that the free movement of goods is guaranteed at a high level of safety and health protection for consumers. this is the main objective of european industrial policy. i would also like to thank you for the good cooperation with your colleagues and, above all, with the commission and the council. the social democrats, however, had to make some important contributions. we were also much closer to the council in most of the discussions. for example, we want the commission to develop guidelines to enable member states to increase their capacity to enable effective market surveillance to ensure the uniform application of the directive. the social democrats also felt that confidentiality and professional secrecy should not be allowed to affect the safety and health of individuals. we also wanted to make it easier for smes - and this has now happened - without any substantial loss and without any relevant financial burden. it was also important to us that the adaptation of this directive did not reduce the standards for disabled people in lifts. we have achieved all that. we were against the removal of agricultural and forestry tractors. we accept the commissioner's explanation. we would have preferred you to have given a date, namely 2008, but we are all still in parliament at that time and we will keep an eye on it. we did not want to take out the small appliances, mr schwab, because it is not just about wristwatches, but also about relatively dangerous fire extinguishers and similar small appliances. i think we have reached a good compromise. the social democrats will support him, and i would have liked to have praised the british once this week for an exceptional reason. we have also worked very well with the british presidency in this respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the importance of mechanical engineering in the european economy has just been pointed out. this is true throughout the european union, but certainly especially in my own country. it is therefore interesting to note that this directive was also drawn up at the request of industry. the industry has been working hard to get this directive under the heading 'a product, a regulation for the internal market'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not affected by the fact that they are not in conformity with the standards laid down by the european standards. in the light of this second reading, let me make the following remark with regard to the debate on the services directive. if we were to take this as a basis for our arguments in our discussions on the services directive, we would certainly be taking the debate forward there too. i should like to point out in this connection that european mechanical engineering is particularly dependent on the services directive, because, of course, not only products are sold, but also services with the machines. let me make a second political remark on this. we have noted in today's debate that the road to this directive was very long, five years. this has largely been the case in a european union of 15 member states. as we all know, we are now moving in a union of 25 states. in this context, and especially in the context of the return of regulation, it should be pointed out, also with regard to the economy and the relevant political bodies, that in the future it is likely that much longer distances will be needed to reach such regulation. here again, the principle is true: less is sometimes more. i would like to stress once again the positive impression that this directive has made on me.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to join in thanking mr schwab for the good work he has done, but at the same time i would also like to thank mrs weiler and mrs de vits, who have worked very hard on behalf of my group and have therefore also made sure that some progress has been made in cooperation with mr schwab. the keywords of health, safety and consumer protection have already been dropped. this is also what makes the quality features that, in products such as machinery, also mean the top position and that allow our product manufacturers to find a large market worldwide. that's a good thing. i can only agree with mrs weiler in this respect. legal certainty is the key here. legal certainty means that machine builders know exactly what they have to comply with, what regulations actually exist, and that they are not left in the dark. this also means that we can have a good market in this context. but legal certainty also means that we must avoid having several different directives apply to one product. legal certainty means that these steps are finally taken - particularly in the case of the tractor directives - and that a uniform regulation is adopted. it is not good for manufacturers to have to juggle between different regulations, and it is also very regrettable that we have not been able to get through with our proposal that this issue should finally be resolved by 2008 at the latest. this is a real mourning game. i remember that in the first reading, when we discussed this subject with the european commission and the council, it was said that we would have everything resolved in the next six months. that was a year and a half ago. the same answer was given when we discussed the subject this year: it will be settled in the next six months. so my request to all concerned is that you make sure that this problem is solved really quickly, because we should not leave the machine builders in the dark either.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not decision 2004/465/ec on a financial contribution by the community to the fisheries monitoring programmes of the member states has undoubtedly helped to improve the control structures and equipment of each member state and to make the flow of information more effective. at the same time, it has enabled the eu inspectors to improve their skills in monitoring and control. control programmes are always and everywhere perceived as disruptive and often discriminatory by those who are to be controlled. unfortunately, however, the practice shows that the common fisheries policy cannot be achieved without controls on fishing activities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a fair and effective manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to extend the validity of decision 2004/465/ec for one year. this would ensure that the community's contribution to the financing of the member states' fisheries monitoring programmes would continue at least until the end of 2006, albeit perhaps under different financial conditions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to point out - and i would also like to point out to mr swoboda - that this is not the last vote of the day. i'm sorry you're leaving so soon, and i'd appreciate it if you'd stay. (cheers and applause)
in writing. the first lesson from the affair around the cia flights must be to close the us and nato military bases such as aviano in italy, ramstein in germany and kogalniceanu in romania in the eu and the future member states. after all, they are the infrastructure for the torture flights. eu interior commissioner franco frattini plays things down, wherever this is possible, and pushes the responsibility back to the member states. this is all the more dishonest, since the affair quite clearly also has an eu dimension. the eu, in the security political arena and precisely as far as the so-called struggle against terrorism is concerned, has agreed on a close cooperation with nato and the usa. agreements on secret service cooperation and on the unlimited transfer of information classified secret are part of the “berlin plus agreement”, which allows the eu to take military action using nato capacities. in february 2003, there was agreed directly with the usa a close cooperation in the transport of suspects. the scandalous behaviour in this sense is not only that of the us government, but the blame must also rest with the eu officials and the eu governments in the know.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to thank the house. some 400 members of parliament supported this written declaration. it has been supported across party lines, across national lines, that children should have a single telephone number in europe to voice their concerns and needs. we are giving a great christmas present to a hundred thousand disadvantaged children in europe. i hope the commission will listen very carefully to this appeal. i hope we will not stop there, but continue to take the concerns and needs of the most vulnerable in our society as an opportunity to take action here. i would like to thank all those who have contributed and those who will continue to do so.
a writer. the commission is not in early october, 28-year-old monk ngawang jangchub died in his cell at drepung monastery. his death is the result of an interrogation by the cadres of the so-called "patriotic education" campaign. critics of the regime are to be brought to their senses by means of drastic physical and psychological re-education measures. since 1996, more than 10 000 monks and nuns in tibet have been brainwashed - a flagrant violation of freedom of thought and religion. threats, arrests, torture are meant to get monastic residents to condemn the dalai lama in writing as an enemy of the state and separatist. on november 23, chinese security forces occupied the drepung monastery near the capital lhasa. liz lynn just pointed that out. they arrested five high-ranking clergymen. then 400 monks peacefully demonstrated for their release. police and special forces responded promptly. for days, the monastery was hermetically sealed off from the outside world. the chinese are not interested in the european parliament's human rights resolutions. the intervention of the commission, mr verheugen, and of the council is clearly not enough. or are they just footnotes in the much-heralded eu-china dialogue? i would remind you, on behalf of the epp-ed group, of our debate in october, in which we urgently called for the life-threatening conditions of detention of the highly respected lama tensin delek rinpoche to be improved so that he can be given a fair trial. manfred nowak, the united nations special rapporteur on torture, has just presented the results of his inspection of chinese prisons, labor camps and police stations. he confirms the torture. he confirms the mistreatment of prisoners and suspects. the chinese system of re-education through labor allows for people to be sent to a camp for up to three years without a court order. this is a clear violation of the personal integrity and dignity of every human being!
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the socio-political developments in russia are alarming. the deliberate closure of ngos by the new law, the ongoing repression of former yukos leaders mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev and the war situation in chechnya are examples of gross human rights violations. khodorkovsky and lebedev are being held in siberian prison camps far from moscow, beyond the arctic circle, at -50 degrees celsius, in violation of russian law. lebedev is very ill. contacts with the families and lawyers are extremely difficult. they have no access to information. they don't get newspapers. their lawyers, yevgeny baro and yuri schmit, are now facing trial next week on charges of slander. these human rights abuses in the russian judiciary are being exacerbated by the increasing restriction of press freedom. we should take stock of these developments and call on the council and the commission to exert influence on russia to ensure that human rights are respected.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. the commission is not my group welcomes the present resolution, particularly recital i and paragraphs 8 to 13, because they broaden the subject as mr horáček and i have requested. because in these debates we often pick on the small dictators and neglect the human rights situation in large states that are strategically and economically important to us. i am glad that we are now talking clearly about china and russia. otherwise, we risk being blinded or blinded by our economic dependence - which unfortunately exists in some areas - on human rights. if you consider that the war in chechnya and the strangulation of human rights in russia, for example, were ignored or kept quiet for years by the german government, and if you see the role that former chancellor schröder has now assumed, it is easy to see why. we must be careful that gasprom, the semi-state russian energy giant, does not start playing the role in europe that the united fruit company once played in latin america. we must cooperate economically and politically, but we must also be clear about the human rights situation as it is. this also applies to the prisoners in siberia, who are being held in unspeakable conditions - mr horáček has mentioned this - and to the attempt to silence independent organisations, i.e. ngos, as has already been done with the russian media. i am very grateful to mr deiss for ensuring that we finally put more emphasis on renewable energy, because this unilateral dependence of europe on russia for energy is leading to a situation in which we are beginning to keep a dead silence about what must not be kept a dead silence.
a writer. the commission is not on the map of the horn of africa, one hardly discovers a small island of stability, which is djibouti. the situation is precarious all around. somalia is practically non-existent as a state. the situation in eritrea is very critical, and the opposition is also being suppressed. and in ethiopia, we have a post-election situation that is exactly as described by our chief eu observer, ana maria gomes. in addition, eritrea is destabilising ethiopia. we know that guerrillas are fighting in ogaden, supported also by eritrea, and the border conflict between eritrea and ethiopia still threatens to escalate into open war. we have focused here today on the internal political situation in ethiopia after the elections. therefore, the demand we have to make is very clear: we have to demand that the government stop using its disproportionate means to suppress the opposition and the population and release all political prisoners and journalists immediately. i just heard three more people were arrested. now we have 15 journalists in custody, according to the latest developments. the international red cross must also be given access to the camps where many people are being held. the prime minister has just said again that he will not only bring charges against the political leadership but also against the 3000 other prisoners. there would be no mercy, no christmas amnesty. the intentions of the ethiopian government are clearly directed towards confrontation. we therefore call on the european union to consider whether it should not also impose targeted sanctions on the leadership there, as it has done with other leaders. i think that would be a clear signal. if these people are not allowed to go to europe to shop, they may also find that they no longer have the support and confidence from us to lead their countries in the right direction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the subject should not be overestimated. the word 'head of state' does not appear in the resolution. the dalai lama has already spoken before the plenary, and we can leave the practical implementation to the conference of presidents and the bureau for an exceptional occasion.
