mr president, i would like to thank you. a blank check is a check where the recipient writes the amount. you can do that if you know the recipient very well. but why recommend to the voters to sign an agreement that is filled by leaders we do not even know today. we do not know whether the most important and most sensitive cases should be decided by majority or unanimity. future unelected prime ministers can decide for themselves where they want to decide instead of giving the voters the final say. we also do not know the content of important articles where decisions are left to the court of justice. in some places, the social systems of the countries are promised to be taken into account; in other places, our welfare can be voted off by a majority decision or a judgment. in one place the status of the folk church is preserved, in another the primacy of the danish constitution with regard to the folk church is revoked. in one place national identity is safeguarded, in another the constitution is made to waver if it conflicts with a decision of an official from brussels. article iii-375 deprives the danish supreme court of the right to determine the limits of the union's sovereignty. in many places there is a free choice between binding decision and voluntary coordination. we do not know what to say yes to. it is therefore wisest to say 'no thanks' until the blank cheque is marked with the amount, recipient and right of withdrawal so that we at least know what we are voting on and how we can withdraw an election. constitutions are for states. between states, they make agreements - treaties. i want a europe of democracies that solves practical problems by focusing on cross-border problems, issues we cannot solve ourselves. then we have nothing to lose in democracy, but everything to gain by working together. we will then have a democratic subsidy instead of a growing democratic deficit which could lead to the bankruptcy of the people's government. "a government without people is just government", said the famous poet ebbe kløverdal reich. a government without the ability to adjust its course on the day of the next election is not a democracy but a tyranny of a few. europe deserves better, and that is the title of the alternative opinion which i recommend should be adopted instead of the corbett and de vigo report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i must remind you once again of the wisdom of the norwegian guidebook for mountain climbers. in case of a discrepancy between the map and the terrain, you must follow the terrain. if we don't, we'll end up in tragedy or farce. and we're well on our way to doing that. it consists in the fact that the constitution in crucial points runs counter to the democratic intentions it claims to have and, as a result, causes a lack of oxygen for genuine popular government. the constitution is a huge concentration, a centralization of political power of the eu elites, not least over the judiciary and the police. the eu constitution is a real abolition of the living democratic rule of civil society, not least because the expansion of the eu's power makes real democratic control impossible. the only hope in this process is the forthcoming referendums. this is also the ultimate democratic element that the eu elites are trying to abolish. so deeply is the people's rule today compromised that it is openly practiced as the power of the elite to rule the people. the fight against the eu constitution is a fight for democracy. we intend to win it outside this house.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european communities, since the first six countries came together, have developed into a cooperation which is not perfect, but which is nevertheless a cooperation between equal states whose governments have the decisive say on the participation of the states in the cooperation. the supporters of this constitution have also made no secret of the fact that europe is not to be governed by national governments but by a strong commission, which has its parliamentary legitimacy in the directly elected european parliament. my party and i dispute the rationality and the viability of this construction. this constitution deprives the countries of their autonomy in favour of an opaque regime which pursues objectives which in too many cases have no popular support. the oldest constitutional document of my country, the law of the land of 1241, says, among other things, and i quote: "the law must be honest and just, tolerable according to the custom of the country, appropriate and useful and clear, so that everyone can know and understand what the law says". the constitution we are discussing today is not honest about its intentions. it is only fair to look at it through the eyes of those who want to consolidate power across europe. it is not acceptable to the majority of europeans, because it is the custom of only a few countries. it is not useful for free cooperation and it is not clear because no one can know and understand what the constitution says. this draft constitution must be rejected, otherwise the eu will end up under a regime of great powers, which will be detrimental to the whole. i recommend the minority amendments. europe deserves better than that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the decisions taken by the heads of state or government at the laeken summit have proved to be even more important than anyone had foreseen at the time. the whole debate today has made that quite clear. what was the driving force behind the laeken summit? it was actually two things. they wanted a better functioning union and they wanted a union which would ensure that we could also function once enlargement had become a reality. when we have changed the methods of cooperation in the european community, it has usually been in a closed process, behind closed doors, where the people of europe have woken up one morning to find that top politicians had once again changed the terms of cooperation. but that was not the case this time. a convention was held, and i had the pleasure of attending. i think that the work there was exciting, but it also set a new goal for how we are going to make changes in europe in the future: in the future it has to be in an open process. we now have a proposal for a new constitutional treaty to discuss with the citizens, and for me at least there are the following crucial points which i would like to stress. firstly, the new constitutional treaty gives us values not only in terms of democracy and human rights but also in terms of the environment and social responsibility, which are enshrined in our constitutional treaty. secondly, we are ensuring that the principle of openness and democracy, which must be respected in modern cooperation, is also applied in european cooperation. i have often wondered, as a member of the council of ministers, why the people of europe should not know what i voted as a minister when we got to the point where decisions had to be taken. we now have a modern constitution with openness. finally, we are making sure that the elected representatives of the european parliament have greater influence. it is a good product, which we have discussed today and which we must recommend to the people of europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: luxembourg's presidency is usually among the best in the eu. perhaps because a small country knows that it cannot put itself on the agenda but must serve everyone. i am sure you will continue that tradition and also call for you and the council to treat supporters and opponents of the constitution in exactly the same way. our buildings here are marked by yes pledges, yes stamps, yes signs and yes balloons decided and paid for by our common budget before parliament has voted. but we will not know the result until this afternoon, and it is certain that there will be both a yes and a no vote. then the yes side can't steal the taxpayers' money in favor of a particular view. the referendums belong to all of us and the voters have a right to balanced information, not taxpayer propaganda. on monday evening the bureau of parliament decided to send a few million euros to the supranational eu parties, all of whom are in favour of the eu constitution. more than 150 members of parliament do not receive any of these funds. it's against the principle of equality and therefore illegal. i would urge you to raise the matter in the council so that the party regulation is either abolished or supplemented by a system for those who do not want to be part of a supranational party but want to carry out similar european information activities, for example on the constitution. how will you guarantee that eu funds are not used for the yes side which cannot also be used in full by the no side? finally, may i ask you to state that you respect the outcome of the referendums, whether it is a yes or a no.
in writing. the eu could well function with one commissioner per country. but now that the european council has decided to reduce the number of commissioners from 2014, it is important that we uphold the principle of equal rotation between member states.
for the group. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his reply to the questions put by stephen hughes on behalf of the employment committee. the matter has been discussed several times in the employment committee, but it has also been discussed in the committee on budgets. in the latter committee we may have had a slightly more difficult approach to this matter, because we also wanted to see that the administration was as efficient and as cheap as possible. when the commission justifies the dismissal of the 43 teachers by the considerations of sound financial management and the need to ensure that costs are not run amok and that language courses are available at a third or a quarter of the price, it is difficult for budgetary people not to say that this should be a sensible decision. and that is why we in the committee on budgets have first and foremost been concerned about the way things have been going. the administration must be efficient and cheap, and we have been pressing hard for parliament over the last few years to ensure that the commission carries out reforms and that these reforms result in a more open and transparent system. it also means a system that may be better able to keep pace with the world around us. it is a common prejudice among our electorate that commission staff are highly favoured, highly paid and spoiled, and we must therefore do our utmost to ensure that there is fairness in pay and that people do not buy things more expensive than they should be. that's an important starting point. that being said, i would point out that the commission must also be an attractive place to work and must also respect the rules of the game in terms of protecting employees. we have been assured that the belgian rules have been observed. i suppose that this is reflected in the compensation paid to teachers, which, according to the commissioner, is the highest ever seen. and i guess that also reflects the fact that this hasn't gone very well. as stephen hughes has pointed out, the commission must also meet some of the requirements we place on employers outside the walls. the commission must also show social responsibility and good governance. i would therefore recommend that an amicable solution be found to this matter and that it be brought to a satisfactory conclusion. however, it is also necessary to look at how to ensure proper management in the future, which is both legal and inexpensive, while respecting the social responsibility of the company.
the ind-dem group is not a party to the treaty. mr president, mr barroso, you are right. you now have five years to make europe the most competitive economy in the world. in the eu we regulate wrong. we send officials to brussels to set prices for products with many suppliers and many demands. it's a market economy. we then prevent developing countries from selling us food, over-pricing it, charging taxes and fees and giving the money back as subsidies, commensurate with the wealth of the owners. a landowner with a thousand hectares receives a hundred times as much in subsidies as a farmer with ten hectares. there is no ceiling on grants - 20% takes 80%. the income of farmers is only a fraction of the subsidies for the common agricultural policy. we are also discriminating against the new member states. we have also created a subsidy industry and an army of lobbyists who travel to brussels to get some of our own money back. now the commission will have more money for more schemes and the ability to levy new taxes itself. my advice is: try less money, less taxation, less subsidies, more freedom for the member states and then give it to those who cannot make it in the market place. there must also be some earth energy and raw materials for the offspring. it must be possible to be an environmental pioneer country. we must give the poorest countries the opportunity to demand more by letting them pay less in the eu quota and giving structural funds to the poorest regions in the poorest countries. millions of citizens are not getting paid because the labour market is not available to them. we have a central bank that is more concerned with the value of money than with families. the eu has a common currency and a common restraint on investment. why not agree on a joint lift? countries with balance of payments deficits increase investment by 5%, those with balance of payments deficits by 6%, and those with balance of payments surpluses by 7%, so that everyone will sell more and get more employment, without punishing anyone with "bad" balance. economic coordination can produce far more growth and employment than the artificial jobs created by bureaucratic incentives. mr barroso, as a new member, you do not have to cling to the brussels stockpile of surpluses from detailed regulation - let freedom loose!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission is not prepared to do so. my group's chairman, mr martin schulz, has made it clear earlier today that we think what you have said here is in the right direction. i think that is also the view of the president of the european social democrats. of course, we agree. but i must say one more thing to you. we have a common allergy among the european social democrats. our allergy is we're hypersensitive to lip service. my point is that it is very important, mr barroso, that you now take seriously what martin schulz has said today - which i would like to follow up. it is important that your statements today are followed up by concrete action. let me give you some examples. it is important that you say today that the gap between rich and poor in the european union must be narrowed. when i see your commissioner, neelie kroes, on the front page of the financial times today saying that 'regional aid must be cut in the rich countries too', something is not quite right. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is also important when you say today that we must create more and better jobs. both mr martin schulz and i agree. but beware that we do not become the old-fashioned recipes of the last century, which were to be able to talk only about productivity and structural change without talking about what we need, namely greater investment and stronger demand in the european single market. mr barroso, it is not only useful to focus on the supply side - we must also focus on the demand side of the modern economy. without coordinated investment in active labour market policies, in training, in innovation and in regional policy, we will not get the jobs. i do not think you disagree, but i would ask you to confirm today that the president of the commission also feels this way. i would remind you that six months ago we presented an investment programme - five points on five million new jobs in europe. it is possible to do so, and you, as president of the commission, will have a crucial part to play. mr barroso, when you speak today of the european social model, i agree, but be careful not to separate things. it is very important that you do not allow yourself to be pressured by old-fashioned thinking in the european union to focus first on economic productivity and then see if we can afford more welfare and possibly also social security and the environment. careful, those things go together. we must insist on the european social model, economic productivity, social justice and environmental investment - that is the european way. in conclusion, mr barroso, your challenge and ours can be summed up. we are not going to be able to do that. that's the question. we have to find the answer together, and i'm sure we can. i listened to what the president of the council, mr jean-claude juncker, said not long ago, when he stressed that the balance between the economy, social conditions and the environment is the european way. we expect to see this balance on 2 february when the first draft comes from the commission so that we can get to work. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to thank you. the situation in the middle east deserves close attention in the coming months. the election in iraq on sunday will be exciting - a perhaps historic opportunity for a nascent democracy. i would like to thank mr solana and the commissioner for their good and insightful speeches. it's nice to hear such commitment. there is new hope with the elections in palestine and the new government in israel. but ariel sharon must help mahmoud abbas succeed, otherwise there is no way forward in the process. i myself was on an observation trip to the west bank in november and have seen firsthand the terrible and desperate situation. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is a poverty which is not caused by natural disasters or the like, but which is a consequence of the israeli occupation. the right of israel to hunt down terrorists must of course be recognised, and the palestinians must also do everything they can to put an end to the violence. but israel's right to hunt down terrorists doesn't mean it's right to use all means. the illegal killings, house demolitions and the excessive use of force against civilians are unacceptable. the illegal security fence also poses a particular problem because it is built mainly on palestinian land and makes it impossible for palestinians in these areas to cultivate their land. jerusalem is also a special problem. here, the distinction is not between palestinians and israelis, but between palestinians and palestinians. the large-scale expropriation of land combined with the settlement policy makes it difficult to see the possibilities for a sustainable palestinian state. it is particularly worrying to see how a double infrastructure is being built up in the west bank. facts on the ground show that the occupation today is more about creating safe conditions for the many settlers and less about creating security for the israeli citizens living in israel. the eu must demand that israel stop the settlement expansion in the west bank and stop the construction of the security fence, otherwise the possibility of a two-state solution will be lost.
mr president, i would like to thank you. both reports express the well-known ambition to increase the power of the eu institutions over the member states, and this will ultimately come at the expense of popular government. i would simply say that mr di pietro's report is a matter for the council of europe and not for the european union. the report by mr costa is full of well-sounding idealism, but the ideals and good intentions suffer from the regrettable lack of any real substance. i would first of all like to point out that the criminal justice and prison systems of a number of member states are characterized by numerous and serious violations of basic human rights. should not reality be cherished over airy ideals? one of the aims of the report is to 'strengthen mutual confidence in the principle of mutual recognition of judgments of the courts of the other member states'. well, what if the polish, the greek, the italian judge or prosecutor or the prison warden does not deserve our trust? i guess what happens in the real world is what counts. the second aim of the report is to force the member states to punish certain acts, as provided for in article 271 of the constitution. if you had asked the criminologists and had been in touch with reality, you would have received a clear answer. at worst, it is barbarism, at best, it is arbitrariness.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is a good report by mr goebbels and the committee that has presented it. i would also like to thank commissioner almunia for his thoughtful speech and for the commissioner's commitment to a reform of the stability and growth pact as presented. my speech today will focus on two of europe's most important issues. the conservative and liberal sides of this parliament are focusing on structural reforms - i would say we are ready to negotiate on this - not only in the european parliament but also in our nation states. the european social democrats, of which i am president, are not opposed to reform. we want the right reforms, but one more thing: europe's main problem is not just structural reforms. the second major problem facing europe is that demand in our countries is too low. i have a very urgent appeal to the leading forces of the european parties on the bourgeois side. my personal experience as prime minister and as party leader in europe is that we cannot get our citizens to reform if there is not demand and growth in our societies. we can put it this way: no successful reform without economic growth and no sustainable economic growth without reform. i therefore urge you very strongly to introduce the european dimension. what is the european dimension? the true european dimension is that we learn to do things simultaneously. there is a demand deficit in the internal market and we can fill this demand deficit at the same time if all the finance ministers together with mr almunia decide to invest in the lisbon objectives over the next four years. that will give us the extra growth we need. we have documented this and it would be great if we could also get the understanding from the civil society side in this parliament that we have to invest and that we have to reform and that we have to do it at the same time.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament voted today in favour of the report by mr antónio costa on the quality of criminal justice and the harmonisation of the criminal laws of the member states (a6-0036/2005). however, we are aware that the proposal concerns a subject covered by title iv of the ec treaty and therefore does not apply to denmark, as provided for in the protocol on the position of denmark.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, thank you for your answer. with one exception, we all agree that natura 2000 is extremely important and we all agree that the money must be raised. i do not know whether everyone is aware of the figure - at least 6 billion euros a year. that means at least 3 billion to be raised from here. it would never be possible to do this with a fund alone. we must integrate this project into the other funds, no matter how and in what way, and we agree on that. we will support the commission in this, and i can also say that the green movements, bird life, etc., support the integration of natura 2000 funding. the problem is that i was unable to hear the commissioner's answer as to how he would ensure that this actually happens. mr florenz gave a moving description of the conflicts that will arise. unless you've made sure that the money is earmarked and tied up, it's not gonna happen. so for the sake of funding alone, we need a clearer response from the commission than we have had so far. but let me also say that it is not just a question of getting enough money. it is also a question of making our whole rural policy 'think along with' nature. so farming and development are being done in these areas that respect a vulnerable nature instead of, as now, driving large road systems through vulnerable areas. i have seen how in poland they give dispensation to brutal pig farming in a very very vulnerable and very rich, but fragile, nature. so we have to also take account of the way we develop rural areas, to ensure that natura 2000 is incorporated and that there is enough money. if you cannot find them in the existing funds mentioned, let me remind you that we have just won a majority in the committee on the environment to also start looking at pillar 1, where almost all the eu's money is. so much money is being spent on direct agricultural aid that it is time we started looking at it.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank and congratulate mr grosch on a very good job. we have listened to each other and i think we are now in a situation where we can also see that arguments have played a good role. i think we have done a fine job and i also think it is great that mr grosch has moved the focus away from something a little abstract about counter-terrorism or whatever it was that started it to being a matter of road safety and about the real terror we have in europe where so many people are being killed and maimed on our roads that it would be equivalent to a jumbo jet going down once a week and killing everyone. it is really important that we do something about it, and a prerequisite here is, of course - or one of the prerequisites is - that we have driving licences that can be checked and that can be recognised everywhere in europe. i think it is a good thing that we have not forced our old compatriots into more control. it was good to see that most of them are excellent drivers who compensate for their reduced reaction time by driving carefully. if only the healthy ones would compensate a little more for their audacity by driving carefully. there is one point that we have had great difficulty in understanding. it is these countries - i do not think the whole ppe group - that apparently have their driving licences as jewels. i think that you should hang your old driving licence on the wall instead of hanging it up as something that cannot be replaced and then get a driving licence that we can use in the rest of europe. you can't get a license by changing it. we tried it in denmark and it worked. it wasn't an assault.
acting president of the council. madam president, in its declaration of 25 march 2004 on the fight against terrorism, the european council instructed the council to consider proposals for the establishment of rules on the retention by service providers of data relating to communications traffic. the declaration provides for the adoption of an instrument on data retention by june 2005. the united kingdom, sweden, ireland and france submitted a proposal for a framework decision on this subject in april 2004. the council asked the european parliament to give its opinion on the proposal which it has begun to examine. on 2 december 2004, the council held a debate on the matter. a number of points have been raised, but they need to be examined in more detail to bring the text to a satisfactory conclusion. in particular, the council stressed the need to pay particular attention to the proportionality of the measure in terms of cost, privacy protection, in particular with regard to data protection, and efficiency. the council's preparatory bodies are still considering the matter and there is no doubt that the criticisms made by the article 29 group will be taken into account and will form part of the negotiations. more recently, the commission has considered that certain aspects of the draft framework decision concerning the harmonisation of data categories and the retention period of such data fall within the community's competence, which should be reflected in a directive based on article 95 of the ec treaty. the council is awaiting a proposal from the commission for its consideration.
acting president of the council. i don't know if there's a glaring contradiction here. there is indeed a very grey area and we must ensure that security considerations and the fight against phenomena such as terrorism do not prejudice the protection of privacy. i believe that this concern, which has been expressed by some member states but also by the commission, must be taken into account. in my view, data protection in particular should indeed guarantee the protection of privacy.
the fact is that this is not an exceptional case. there are many areas where the european convention on human rights goes far beyond what is permitted, but which impose a number of requirements for data protection, and as the honourable member states, the essential crime is of course the use of this information contrary to the interests of the suspects. but the mere retention of the data constitutes an offence in relation to the requirements of article 8 of the convention. the council must therefore be expected to adopt a position of principle without instilling these problems in the general talk of taking them into account. it is a matter of principle.
for the group. mr president commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr maštálka, for the work he has done in drawing up this report on the promotion of health and safety at work. every year 4.8 million people are involved in an accident at work, 5 200 people are killed at work and at least 158 million working days are lost. it is a huge waste of both human and financial resources. the cost of accidents at work is between 2.65 and 3.8% of the european gross domestic product. money that could have been used to promote employment and create more and better jobs, which is a clear objective of the lisbon strategy to make the eu the most competitive region in the world. companies often complain that it is too expensive to introduce these health and safety measures, but the cost is much higher if workers die or become chronically ill as a result of accidents at work. the eu has already put forward a number of directives in the field of health and safety at work, and the legislation is working. it is estimated that eu legislation has prevented 25 million european working days being lost a year and many lives have already been saved, as the commissioner was aware. however, the eu's common framework directive is not enough. the introduction of laws in the member states or clear collective agreements between the social partners is needed, and the practical work of ensuring a better working environment can be much improved. with ten new member states joining the eu, we are faced with a major challenge in creating a good and safe working environment in the new countries. in many countries, workers are not well organized and safety at work has not been an issue. we need to focus more on prevention and implementation, as the report also suggests, and in this connection we need a detailed overview of the actual situation in the new countries as well. the commission could usefully draw up a report on this. in addition, it would be a good idea if future evaluation reports were to include more of an assessment of the extent to which legislation is being complied with in practice in the member states. otherwise, the work we do has no value. we must pay particular attention to the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises. compared with large companies, small firms have a much higher number of accidents at work and a large number of workers who are not well informed. it is therefore very important that the commission takes appropriate steps to structure safety work in companies and to stimulate social dialogue on safety and health at the workplace level.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank the commissioner for stressing that in europe, in accordance with the lisbon objectives, we must compete on knowledge and not on bad wages or environmental destruction. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. however, in the design of the sixth framework programme, a separation of scientific research and sociological research meant that sociological research actually competed with technological research in terms of budget in relation to the ist programme. this tends to marginalise the relevance of socioeconomic research and therefore technological research in the future should be developed in the context of the evolution of society's needs, values and expectations. socio-economic research in the information society is a prerequisite for achieving this objective.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for speaking. i would like to add my support to the comments made on the situation in turkey. i would like to ask, in addition to the absence which the president has expressed on behalf of parliament, whether there are any further initiatives which the president intends to take in this context? it is extremely important that this parliament, which has for the most part openly opposed turkey's accession - and we are very positive and see great potential in turkey's accession to the eu - should also be the first to shout and protest when turkey is clearly moving in the wrong direction. if the president could suggest further action, that would be very helpful.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by saying that the report contains sympathetic views on a number of points and that there is no doubt that it is extremely well-intentioned. but the problem with it is that it completely ignores the real problems of europe's economy, and i wonder why people do not ask why things are going so badly. why does the united states have 40.5% higher gdp per capita on average than we have in even the richest part of the eu-15? the answer is very clear. europe's economy is moving too slowly because we are not educating and researching enough. we work too few years of our lives - only 63% of all people in the active age group are in the labour market. we're working under the hours per week and we're working with an outdated technology. it is not helpful to distribute poverty as this report proposes. it's about getting growth up so there's enough to distribute to everyone. look at the figures for my country - denmark - and you will see that it has succeeded both in implementing a socially conscious policy and in generating growth.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, the greens welcome the gsp agreement but still have major concerns - let me highlight the two most serious: unfortunately, the majority rejected a number of the ngo amendments - which the greens supported - to increase the number of eligible countries. unfortunately, the agreement excludes indonesia and india, although their average incomes are considerably lower than those of many countries covered by the agreement. this means that the tsunami-hit country, indonesia, is now being taxed by the eu at a rate of more than eur 200 million a year. in fact, it seems that the great willingness to sacrifice of the eu countries has been transformed into the old-fashioned protectionism of the eu. we want this agreement to be extended to all countries that meet the criteria for sustainable development, regardless of their size. secondly, it is disappointing that we still have to wait for the commission to come up with a much-needed reform of the rules of origin. will the commission please tell us when we will receive this proposal? without this, the new gsp rules will not be able to benefit those for whom they were intended. for example, another tsunami-hit country, sri lanka, is affected because its clothing production powers only one link in the manufacturing chain. i do not think that our aid is really going to harm those who really need it most!
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is gratifying that the democratic forces in lebanon seem to have such strong popular support. for too many years, lebanon has been governed by ethnic conflicts and foreign interests. the syrian de facto occupation of the country has lasted for 30 years and is an obstacle to the development of a genuinely democratic society. although the events of the past few days suggest that the syrian regime is willing to abandon its military presence in lebanon, there are good reasons for maintaining a critical stance towards syria. anyone who knows about syria and lebanon knows that the syrian authorities are deeply involved in the economy of lebanon, which they are trying to control. even if the actual military forces are withdrawn from the border areas, the long arms of the syrian regime will still be able to sabotage democratic development. president assad is notorious for ruthlessly using his various intelligence agencies and his secret police to suppress any opposition to the regime. the recent bloody attacks in syria and lebanon bear witness to this. in addition, the influence of the clergy in tehran in lebanon, including hezbollah, is growing. i am missing a reaction from tehran which unequivocally supports democratic developments in lebanon. the syrian withdrawal must be accompanied by a demand that the iranian military presence in lebanon is also unacceptable. the eu and the us are united on this issue. the situation must be used to demonstrate that transatlantic cooperation can produce results. with sensible support for democratic forces and a united front against the enemies of democracy, the eu and the us can help democracy on its way - not just in lebanon, but in the whole region.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'd like to ask you about the software case. there are stories in the danish press that despite strong protests from the danish government and others, the decision was made to maintain the a-point. can you confirm, commissioner, that it was not just a matter of people settling down and accepting the reference to procedure, but that there was a strong protest? that's one question. secondly, can you confirm that you have been contacted by the danish government, among others, to support the danish government's wish to reduce software patents to a b-point? have you been contacted by the danish government to obtain support for this view? i'd like to get that cleared up.
the commission is not i am also going to present an amending budget which involves an answer. the amending budget for the 2005 financial year of the parliament is to take account of the fact that staff salaries and pensions were adjusted in 2004 at a rate lower than originally expected. the adjustment of wages and pensions which the council adopted at the end of last year was only 0.7%, and when we were preparing the budget for this year, we were expected to see a 2.6% increase in wages. the european parliament, like the other eu institutions, can therefore now cut staff appropriations in the 2005 budget. that is what we agreed on in the budgetary compromise. in total, therefore, there is a reduction of eur 7.98 million in the european parliament's expenditure on salaries and other expenditure, and that is fine. in the same context, we are instructing the secretary-general of parliament in july to look at parliament's budget, assess the situation and see if we need another amending budget. the background is that we anticipate that there may well be a surplus in parliament's budget this year, which means that the appropriations will be exhausted by the end of the year. it has happened that for a number of years in this parliament we have secured future savings on rent by buying buildings - a very sensible policy which allows us to save some money. in 2004, a collection appropriation of eur 190 million made it possible to release part of the appropriations we have from the 2005 budget for buildings. i know that the services of parliament are negotiating the purchase of additional buildings which we are currently renting, but it is at an early stage so we do not know where we are going to end up. the fact is that the appropriations we have in 2005, after the reduction in wages, will make it possible to finance important areas which we do not have in the budget at present, namely the preparations for the accession of bulgaria and romania, and perhaps also to buy additional buildings to house parliament's information offices in the member states. we shall return to this in july. i also have a few comments on mr dombrovskis' report on the 2006 budget, now that the time has come. this budget will also be characterized by the preparation of the accession of bulgaria and romania, which is foreseen in 2007, as mr dombrovskis mentioned. it will also be characterised by the enlargement already achieved with ten new countries and the continued need to recruit staff from the new member states. it has already been a tremendous effort to recruit the 1 200 or so new staff we have in parliament. an effort that has been successful in many ways. but i think our rapporteur, mr dombrovskis, is right to ask us to examine whether the staffing situation is also fair in all respects. we must ensure that the recruitment process is not unnecessarily time-consuming and overly bureaucratic. we must ensure that we have the staff we need for translation and interpretation. we must ensure that we as members of parliament have access to the necessary expertise so that we can do serious legislative work. the volume of legislation has increased considerably in recent years with the new treaties and the demand for better legislation, which we all agree on, means that we need proper legal guidance and resources for real impact assessments of the effects of legislation, including economic effects on public coffers, the eu budget, national coffers and business. so we need more help. last but not least, i am pleased that in the draft budget for parliament for 2006 we are proposing a significant strengthening of parliament's information policy. this implies a thorough evaluation of the information policy to ensure that we achieve the objectives of the information effort. it should be easier and simpler for journalists and citizens in general to follow the legislative process. it must be easier for citizens to know how to secure their civil rights through parliament. we must ensure that the beautiful words of openness in the toasts actually become reality. that is why my group and i are also in favour of strengthening the information policy financially, even though we always say that we must be frugal. it is also important that we strengthen the decentralized effort through the information offices in the member states, because here one can ensure a better sense of the specific needs for information. i thank mr dombrovskis for his efforts. we can support his report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is bound to be tremendous pressure on women to deliver eggs. there's going to be a very severe shortage of eggs. we can't talk about this. i'm a little concerned that we're talking about this in a blanket - eggs, sperm, embryos. embryos. i didn't realize that you could get embryos the same way you can get sperm. the british mention it in their reply. they're all in line with each other. i think the most worrying thing is that the commission apparently thinks that it has solved the problems of what comes very close to human trafficking, just with rules. we need very tight controls and we need to go after those who have broken the rules. i would also like to raise the question, as was mentioned just now, of what we are going to do about the trade that is going to take place across frontiers. it should be checked, too. it is not enough to say that it is permitted in the other country. the trafficking of women may be permitted in the other country, but that is why we want it to be banned. i look forward to the commission's explanation of how it will ensure that this is complied with.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i should like to congratulate the house today on the positive reception of our motion for a resolution on the lisbon process. i regard it as a hand extended to cooperation, and i regard it as a sign of listening, and we have had some hard discussions along the way, but after all, after every hard discussion, a conclusion must be drawn, and the conclusion drawn today is that now is the time for action. i should like to say that i was very pleased with jean-claude juncker's remark some time ago when he said: 'let us now stop the debate on what comes first and let us insist that in europe things come at the same time, we improve our competitiveness, we are making social reforms - also in the labour market - and we are making environmental reforms at the same time.' i would like to say that we in scandinavia have shown that this is possible, and i think that is what we mean by the european dimension. but it is not just any combination that we are in favour of. we need reforms, and we need investment. mr president of the commission, i feel today that the single greatest investment we need is investment in people over the next five years. when the commission and mr špidla speak of flexibility, we in the party of european socialists are not against flexibility. it depends on what kind of flexibility we're talking about. i myself feel, mr president of the commission, that we can create a reform which says that people must be able to move from the old job to the new job in social security and in the constant conviction of becoming more skilled, of becoming better qualified and of becoming more educated. if we do that, we have a chance to make a new deal, where we say to people, "we're going to make sure you're safe in the 21st century in a new job market with new jobs". we are committed to creating 1 500 new jobs in europe for every 1 000 jobs lost to asia, india and the third world. in other words, we are saying that we are here to create new jobs to replace the old ones and we are making sure that the new jobs can be taken. i would like to conclude by urging the luxembourg presidency and the commission to increase demand in europe, to coordinate macroeconomic investment, because i assure you that without strong economic growth we will not have a popular understanding of reforms, and without reforms we will not have sustainable economic growth. if we can come together on this during the luxembourg presidency's call for the european council, we will have come very, very far. i wish you all the best of luck in your work under the luxembourg presidency. i think that a great deal is being done to ensure balance, and we will be there at all times, as martin schulz said today, to ensure the balance which is the european identity. (applause from the centre)
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president i would like to thank the commission for its commitment to full transparency in the case of some 3 000 working parties. for the first time, we can now see the list of groups. it can be found on the commission's website or, if it is easier, downloaded from my website at bonde.com. the vice-president of the commission, margot wallström, promised yesterday that we could also get the names of the participants. thank you, and we shall soon see whether those who advise the commission on smoking are from the tobacco industry or the fight against cancer. i would also like to thank the commission for its commitment to allow us in future to receive all the contributions from the commission to the council of ministers and its working parties. 85% of all legislation is finalised in 300 working groups and coreper. we have been kept out of most of this legislation. now we have been promised the greatest transparency reform ever. i look forward to christmas eve like a little boy, because i have worked for this openness for many years. thank you. it's almost too good to be true. now it's your turn to sit on the council. mr president, the luxembourg presidency could ask its colleagues to open the 300 working parties negotiating the laws to parliament. it is a humiliation, as an elected representative, to always have to beg for the documents in a corridor or from a lobbyist or from a student from one of the permanent representations or from the ambassador or the minister himself. when we sit in committees and consider the legislative proposals, we officially have only the original proposal from the commission, while the council working group is sitting with version no 17, which we cannot obtain legally. officials and interns behind us sit in committee meetings with the latest version of the bill, but what about the members. we have the votes of the electorate, but we lack the confidence of the council of ministers. we shall now have the commission's new proposals in the legislative process. when will we have the opportunity to thank you in the council for the most obvious of all? in democracies, the executive is accountable to the elected representatives of the people, in democracies there is no one above or next to the electors and their directly elected representatives. i am grateful to the president, especially if the council will give us a little more to thank for.
the commission is not mr president first of all, i would like to thank all the members of the committee on the environment for their cooperation. i think that the report has become a christmas tree, after the votes on monday. first time a newlywed couple has to put their christmas traditions together. but upon closer study, i can see that the tree is both beautiful and has retained a consistent theme. first of all, it is now established that natura 2000 must be financed. the amount is non-negotiable. we have international obligations, and for the time being, our nature is decaying. the environment agency in copenhagen has repeatedly drawn attention to the alarming situation and we must reverse it. it is therefore also pertinent that the commission's own minimum amount of eur 21.35 billion for 2007-2013 is included in the report, precisely because it is not up for discussion. all we know is that if we don't get started right away, it's just gonna get more and more expensive every day. in poland i have seen how the danish and american giant pig farms spread themselves in a fine and vulnerable environment without regard for biodiversity. in denmark, many farmers hoard pollution permits in natura 2000 areas. they'll make a lot of money when the government buys them back. this has to stop. what's up for discussion is how to get the money. and here it is good that the committee is united in integrating natura 2000 not only into rural policy but also more broadly. as the commission has said: 'natura 2000 must be integrated into all eu policies'. but the committee has been even more realistic than the commission. we are talking about environmental considerations in general and not just natura 2000, and we know that unless these funds are linked by specific commitments and conditions, the objective cannot be achieved. so far we have not seen much evidence of such consideration, although it can already be integrated into the funds today. on the contrary, nature often works against it. on the other hand, if the nature of the fund is taken into account, users will be interested in environmentally friendly agriculture and other production in the area, and thus benefit twice as much. i am convinced that this will sharpen the sense of the richness of having a diverse nature, including economic, as the commission has so rightly demonstrated. there are smaller areas which cannot be helped through the funds. for these we need the special fund 'life+', which will also provide for the administration and other organisational tasks. we have repeatedly stressed the need for a considerable increase in the eaggf, the second pillar of the cap, if the task is to be solved properly and in harmony with those who are responsible for it. we can of course ask for new money from the budget for this purpose, but it is more likely and realistic to get a considerable part of the money from the first pillar of the cap, where the very large sums of money of the european union are tied up. but we must not forget that a substantial part of the sum must come from the member states. that is their obligation and i think it is important that we stress that the countries have an obligation themselves, that it is not something that has to be financed by the eu alone. it would be a terrible thing if we extended this eternal existence of aid, which we know all too well from agricultural policy, to the point where the member states now felt that the community was basically to pay for it all. no, they're gonna have to pay for this themselves. the european union's co-financing is first and foremost an important gesture, and we expect at least half of it to be covered by the eu budgets and therefore primarily by the funds. parliament must now rely on the commission and the member states to live up to their responsibilities, to listen to parliament and to integrate natura 2000 into all relevant policies. the heads of government have committed themselves to this in gothenburg and on several occasions since, and they owe it to the citizens of the european union and to our descendants.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall probably not be able to give all the answers that the honourable members are expecting, but i shall try to give at least some clarification. the commission clearly shares the need for adequate funding for the natura 2000 programme. it is also clear that, as the rapporteur has said, natura 2000 is part of the co-financing by the european union. first, we must see how to secure this funding. on behalf of the commission, i can assure you that the financing of natura 2000 from the existing funds will be made even more effective. this will be possible because the priority of natura 2000 funding will be included in the strategic guidelines for the different funds to finance the initiatives, which will be presented by the commission shortly and which will be used by the member states to present their programmes. we believe that by including this priority in the strategic guidelines we can ensure adequate funding. secondly, we must see how the commission can contribute to the proper use of the available funds. i can tell you that by the end of this year the commission will publish a guidebook to explain how natura 2000 can be funded, and in 2006 workshops will be organised in each member state to explain the funding opportunities. the commission is committed to launching these initiatives which will be designed to stimulate the submission of programmes which can be effective and therefore qualify for funding. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of foodstuffs. this programme does not exclude the financing of dedicated initiatives within the natura 2000 network. i can give only a few examples in this connection. there are actions which the commission considers eligible for funding under life plus, such as initiatives in the field of communication, support for the establishment of local partnerships for the specific promotion of natura 2000 areas and sites, the development of initiatives relating to the marine environment, which is a very important aspect, and innovative schemes for the protection of animal or plant species. these are just a few examples to show how, in the commission's view, life plus can also be used to fund natura 2000. finally, i would like to mention the possibility of providing financial support for marine sites. you know that the commission proposal on the european fisheries fund does not specifically mention natura 2000 sites. however, the commission understands that this proposal offers the possibility of supporting activities aimed at developing the marine environment. in this spirit, the possibility of financing activities to promote the marine environment will also be considered. i think that these elements offer at least some further reassurance that the commission has no intention of calling into question the priority of natura 2000 funding.
the commission is not mr president i just want to say that it has now become very, very clear how wrong it is that it is not dimas who is here. we have only been given a brief overview of the possibilities within the existing sources of finance. well, we know that. it was clear from the beginning. what we have pointed out is that if there are no commitments, it does not work, and all past experience has shown that these opportunities are not being used. it is quite disappointing that the commission is standing here and giving us a lesson in what the actual possibilities are instead of answering the questions that have been raised during the debate. i know that commissioner frattini is not in a position to do that, but to send a commissioner who does not have the area and therefore only says generalities is not a proper way of dealing with parliament.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to call for the reform of the eu sugar regime as soon as possible and pave the way for the liberalisation of the whole sugar market. the reforms have been a long time coming. this creates uncertainty about how long the current arrangements will last and, in particular, when they will be changed. this uncertainty has not benefited european sugar producers. that is why i welcome a final settlement of the sugar arrangements. the wto has delivered its judgment on the sugar regime. a verdict that appeals to us to do something about it. i also agree, of course, that we should wait for the appeal for the next two months, but we must take the consequences of this appeal when it is presented. european sugar production is both efficient and competitive. there will of course be some changes, particularly as regards where production will take place in the future. but it is very important that we enable production and hence quotas to move to the best and therefore the cheapest place. this is the best thing we can do for european sugar producers, since we have an obligation to equip them for competition on the world market. we must not ignore the concerns of the world's poorest countries, not even in the eba agreement. they have set up their production at an artificial price on the european market and they must of course be helped during the transitional period which is needed for a freer competition on the world market. but it is no help to maintain the current arrangements so that they can sell their production at artificially high prices on the eu's internal market, on the contrary. last but not least, it is of the utmost importance that we ensure that all countries of the world remove their subsidies to sugar production so that competition can take place in a free and fair market. we must of course require that imported sugar is produced in accordance with and in accordance with the same social and environmental standards for sugar production in europe as we know.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to the commissioner for sticking to a sugar reform, however modest. the decision of the committee on agriculture is shocking, at least if global solidarity plays only a small part in political life. the committee on agriculture believes that sugar production in the eu and, preferably, worldwide should be regulated by quotas. that is a deeply strange view. but let the sugar industry go free. the committee has some good considerations for the developing countries, but it is clear that the main concern is the production of sugar in the eu. we are not helping poor farmers in brazil, for example, by reducing the conditions for brazilian exports. it is possible that a large part of the gains from opening up the market will go to the landowners, but it is impossible to argue that this would actually lead to losses for the agricultural workers. in the eu, half of the aid goes to the sugar industry. if we really want to do something constructive for the poor sugar countries, it is the ilo that must be strengthened. in brazil, lulla is also. here one could suggest negotiations with the government to ensure that the planters comply with ilo requirements. to impose a quota on all other countries and eu social and environmental standards is to fail the 'everything but arms' agreement, which says that by 2009 the least developed countries should be free to sell sugar to the eu. the concerns of the developing countries are hollow. it also shows that the savings which the eu makes on sugar export subsidies are now to be used to secure income, not for developing countries. the proposal to use sugar for fuel is a moron. i support all the amendments tabled by the socialist group and i think others should do the same, for the sake of the developing countries, for the sake of agriculture and for the sake of the european union.
(for the alde group) mr president in the alde group we attach great importance to the need for more effective control and enforcement of the driving and resting time rules. however, we do not think that it is worth changing the rules as such if it does not lead to better rules, but only to rules that are complex in a new way. the regulation of driving and rest periods is - and may be - complicated by its very nature. it is complicated because we have to strike the right balance between, on the one hand, the need to be able to carry out effective control of the rules in the interests of road safety and, on the other hand, the need to take account of the transport sector and to allow drivers a reasonable flexibility in the way they organise their work. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr markov, for his excellent and comprehensive overview of this complicated subject. there are, however, a number of points on which my group disagrees with some of the conclusions contained in the report which was the result of the vote in the committee on transport. this applies to the withdrawal of vehicles of less than 3,5 tonnes which must be subject to the rules on driving/resting time. we believe that this would be an unnecessary waste of transport without contributing to road safety to an extent that justifies the high cost of this proposal. it would also be quite difficult for the police to immediately ascertain whether a normal van is driving for a company that needs a tachograph installed, and therefore the proposal to include vehicles under 3.5 tonnes would make the task of checking very difficult. it is proposed to keep wagons whose operation is related to a wide range of public utilities such as sewage, electricity, water, gas, etc. outside the directive - one may ask whether this makes any sense, but if it is, then it must be said that the exception should apply equally fully if it is a private company that performs the task on behalf of the public, for example by concession or by contract. we also think it right and important, in the interests of long-term drivers, that the weekly rest period should be organised more flexibly than the council has suggested. this applies to the location of the reduced weekly rest period and the compensatory rest period. we have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect. the votes in the committee were very close on a number of points, and it will therefore be exciting to see the committee here in the plenary, where we must have mobilised the qualified majority. the question then is whether we can reach an agreement with the council. the alde group would like to see 11 hours of daily rest allocated to us, but we do not think that the council is right in saying that the daily rest allocation should be three hours plus nine hours. it is too inflexible and is characterized by the fact that the concern for easy control has become too overriding. the council is insisting that the tachographs should be installed this year, but given the current state of affairs with the adoption of the directive and the possibilities of installing the tachographs, it seems foolhardy to insist on this date and we can support a delay on the part of the alde group. i very much hope that in the conciliation procedure we will find a solution to this directive which both meets the need for more effective controls and at the same time ensures sufficient flexibility for drivers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. road transport has become a "smooth" industry. it really needs cleaning up. the law of the jungle now prevails - the harsh working conditions of the drivers have been discussed, including the consequences for road safety. tired drivers in large trucks are disastrous for road safety. but beyond that, the conditions of competition are completely skewed. both rail and maritime transport, which are much better for the environment and road safety, have no chance against the far too cheap road transport. we are in favour of fair competition and road hauliers must of course pay the real price for proper transport and not just pass on all the consequences of their activities to society. those who oppose better regulation and stricter controls have become the loudest voices for the most brutal part of the transport sector. fair pricing through sensible regulation and sound controls also increases the chances of other forms of transport being environmentally friendly and safe. that is the kind of competition we want in europe. it's the best that can win, not the most impudent or the most ruthless.
for the uen group. mr president we have a number of very thorough and very insightful reports, for which i am grateful to the rapporteurs, although in a number of cases i can only express my surprise that after such a clear and precise criticism of completely unacceptable circumstances, one ends up recommending a discharge - that is, an exemption from the responsibility of the administration. i would now like to emphasize that this is not mr kallas' fault. we are talking about something that happened in the past, before this commission. it is a matter of taking some distance from the issue of making others responsible for the past. mr wynn writes that he is disappointed that the court of auditors does not have reasonable assurance that the systems used to monitor and control key budgetary areas are working effectively to manage the risks - that is, the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. that means that we again do not have a positive audit report. we have discussed this problem over and over again over the years. we know that there are many different countries with different management cultures, but in the end the problems are caused by the fact that the legislation that has been drawn up is inappropriate and often does not meet the objectives set, on the contrary the procedure is structured in a way that encourages fraud and evasion, and the failure to implement the budget is in many areas the expression of the failure to implement the policy planned. we have also still not yet got a modern and acceptable accounting system in a number of areas - this was what marta andreasen was fired for at the time - but the conditions are not yet in place. when i read the report, i could not help thinking of a text in the libretto of andrew lloyd webber's opera evita, which is about the wife of the then argentine president, general peron, evita peron. it is reported that she had set up a charitable fund and the text says: 'yes, the money did not always go to the intended purposes' - it is a bit like the eu. and the lyrics in the opera say, among other things, "when the money is rolling in you don't keep books". that was argentina in the 1950s, but now it's the eu in 2005. it would never work in the nation states and it should not work here either. i therefore vote against discharge in some cases, but for a number of very sensible amendments.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the millennium development goals are to be achieved and they have been well described by mrs kinnock, and thank you for that. we must, however, accept that it is unlikely that the overall budget will be able to reach 0.7% of the countries' gdp for the time being. we must therefore also look at other sources of funding. one of the proposals that has been put forward and which really has some prospects is the introduction of a tax on aviation fuel. aircraft fuel is one of the most significant contributors to the greenhouse effect. such a tax would both provide money for the poor - if the money is spent on that, of course - and would also be in harmony with the kyoto agreement. several governments have been hesitant to say the least about the proposal, including my own danish government. i hope very much, however, that the european parliament will press ahead with this development. let me just mention another obvious source, namely the enormous sums of money that go to our agricultural aid, which are ruining it for the developing countries. in any case, at a minimum, the harmful export aid should be phased out as quickly as possible.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the alde group also deeply regrets the lack of respect for parliament and the infringement of the budgetary powers of the european parliament which we see here in the context of the negotiations for the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union. i'm afraid this isn't the first time this has happened. we saw this with the enlargement of the ten new countries last year. here too the council acted unilaterally and included the estimate of the cost of enlargement in the annex to the treaties of accession, and it would seem that the aftermath of this and the subsequent negotiations between parliament and the council had become firmly established in the council's memory. however, there is evidence that the council's memory is rather short. how hard can it be? we have simply asked the council - as agreed with the luxembourg presidency - to agree to a joint declaration which stresses that the three institutions must reach agreement on the financial consequences of the accession of bulgaria and romania, as it should be. but no, you don't want to sign a statement like that. this is a clear illustration of the lack of cooperation and the fact that we are so close to agreeing on a common position on the financial perspective for the multiannual budgets after 2006. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i would like to thank the commissioner for clarifying the financial perspective and for supporting the opinion of parliament. i would also like to thank mr schmidt for his promise that he will once again try to get the joint declaration signed by the council. i wish him the best of luck with the task.
mr president, i would like to thank you. romania has had a hard time lifting the yoke of the soviet empire off its back. romania was one of the countries which experienced the most violent transitions from dictatorship to democracy. the country has therefore had a more difficult path towards membership. the romanian society is therefore making impressive progress, but the work is far from finished. romania still has problems with the violation of press freedom, poor protection of children's rights and repression of the roma population, as well as with corruption. i am therefore pleased with the action plan against corruption recently published by the romanian government. but even if romania is still suffering from serious problems, it is important that we approve romania's membership tomorrow, as it will further the efforts of the romanian people to meet the conditions for accession on 1 january 2007.
the alde group is not in favour of this. madam president, i would like to thank you. i should also like to thank mr pittella, who has done a great deal of work on this report and has an even greater task ahead of him. from a budgetary point of view, 2006 is a special year because it is the last year of the budgetary framework 'agenda 2000'. this means that we have - in some respects - limited degrees of freedom. however, there are a number of questions that recur from year to year. we must again make an effort on the part of parliament to ensure that there are the necessary payment appropriations for structural policy. last year we saw how more money was actually needed than was budgeted. the financing of the decentralised agencies is another recurring problem, as we saw in the negotiations on the 2005 budget. there must be a solution. finally, we have the problem of financing new priorities, new tasks that arise, such as reconstruction after the tsunami. in the alde group we attach great importance to the lisbon process and particularly to the programmes where we develop financing for small and mediumsized enterprises through the european investment fund, because with very small budgetary resources we have a very large dispersion effect and ensure economic growth at a very low cost to the european budget. as regards the eu's foreign policy, we attach great importance to the fight against hiv/aids being a high priority in the budget. we also believe that the budget should specifically support the eu's neighbourhood policy, so that we can promote democracy and human rights in the countries concerned. finally, i would mention the european union's information policy, which also needs special efforts and attention. and in this area we must develop cooperation between the commission and parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i see that graham watson is not in the chamber, and i am sorry. i must strongly disagree with watson's criticism of jean-claude juncker, president of the european union. it is not jean-claude juncker's fault that france today has a government so unpopular that it is unable to convince the french people to vote yes to the treaty. the truth is that it was jean-claude juncker, through the european council meeting in march of this year, who ensured that the rest of us were able to explain to the french people that the stability and growth pact had now been given a sensible form, that the balance of the lisbon process had been maintained and that we were now able to take the next step, as joaquin almunia, the commissioner for the economy, also said: 'that by using the two instruments together with a macroeconomic approach, we are actually able to create more and new jobs in europe'. i would like to say to mr watson, to the ppe and to others, whether they are in the chamber or not, that this is a responsibility which you and we share with the president of the commission, mr barroso and the whole commission, mr juncker and the council. we must show the french people that this european union has one main task at the moment, and that is to help create more and new and better jobs. france cannot create more and new and better jobs on its own. france and the french people need a new constitutional treaty, and this new european house, together with the political line which has been laid down now - with the european council meeting in march and which will hopefully be continued in june - gives us some good arguments for moving forward in european work. europe is not a place of great revolutions or of starry nights. europe is well-targeted, well-worked and i would like to compliment mr jean-claude juncker on that today.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president it is true that there are still many problems in this area, and this has also been underlined by the speeches from the council and from the commission, and i would like to thank them for their statements. but it is also true that there are many prospects for this area and its integration into the europe we have today. i will use an example from denmark. the last enlargement of europe was a real eye opener for many danes, who came to see europe in a new light, not just as an economic club - a club for the rich - but as a political club based on common values and capable of being a driving force for the development of democracies and security. recently we have seen that one of the danish parties which plays a decisive role in the eu debate, namely the socialist people's party, has changed from being a 'no' party to europe to being a 'yes' party. it is quite obvious in the light of the developments we have seen with enlargement. the next major challenge will be this area, and of course there are still problems in albania, macedonia, bosnia-herzegovina, serbia-montenegro, kosovo and in croatia, as we have seen recently and where we have had to postpone the accession negotiations. but the important thing is to maintain that there is a perspective for these countries, because it is the perspective - the european perspective - that can be the driving force and that is what they need. and we - the rest of europe - have a great need to show that this is a key area of european cooperation. we're entering an exciting year. it will be a year in which we will of course have to find a positive solution to the problem of croatia, and hopefully as soon as possible. it will also be the year in which we can get closer to a solution to the name problem of fyrom or macedonia and it will hopefully also be the year in which we get closer to a clarification of the future status of kosovo. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your cooperation in the preparation of this resolution. it has become a good instrument which will help to maintain the pressure and the momentum which, i hope, has now been given to developments and the commitment which the european union must show in finding a solution to the problems of the region, so that we can really get the process going and there is meaning and perspective for all the parties involved.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. mr president in the committee on foreign affairs, when this resolution was adopted, we agreed to use the name 'the former yugoslav republic of macedonia' when referring to this country in contexts which did not concern the discussion of the future name itself. i hope that i can get parliament's support to maintain this line in the final resolution. in other words, if amendments are adopted today with reference to macedonia and they do not deal with the name issue, the final version will read 'the former yugoslav republic of macedonia'. this is to ensure that we vote on the substance of the resolution and that the final result, whatever the outcome of the votes, is clear to readers of the resolution. the name itself can be dealt with in amendments nos 6 and 25.
health is a fundamental social right and one of the pillars of the european social model. trust in the provision of health care is a prerequisite for the individual to function well in society. it's a security feature. the commission has therefore taken the initiative to work towards equalising and improving the quality of health care provided to european citizens. the ageing of the population will create problems with the capacity of national health systems to ensure access and quality in the future. all member states face this problem, despite their different health systems. it requires modernisation. therefore, the resources of the health sector must be better used, but it is important that this does not mean only rationalization and efficiency. we must remember that prevention is the most effective form of health care. in the europe of the future, health should not be seen as an expense but rather as an asset to a competitive economy. the mid-term evaluation of the lisbon strategy also underlines the need for the social pillar. the social dimension is simply a necessity for europe to achieve growth and employment. if we are to continue to ensure a well-educated and skilled workforce, we must be able to provide universal and quality health care. the member states should therefore make better use of the open method of coordination and the possibility of exchanging good practice that it provides. similarly, more should be done to improve our working environment so that we avoid accidents at work and work-related diseases. an improved environment will also have a positive impact on public health in general, creating healthier citizens who in turn will free up resources for health care. health, growth and employment are inextricably linked.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, i thank all those who have spoken and once again the rapporteur. the commission is fully aware that the problem facing us today is a real problem for the citizens, a problem which causes a waste of time, costs and above all a sense of injustice. this is a political issue which we take very seriously and the commission will certainly take full account of parliament's decisions. we believe that speed and efficiency are needed. you know that if this initiative is approved, as i hope it will be, after the member states have notified it, the matter will automatically be referred to the commission for negotiation, with greater speed and greater efficiency than in the present situation. the principle of solidarity will apply and this is also a politically important point. as mr coelho has rightly said, political and diplomatic responses are needed and this is the way the commission intends to go. i can assure you that we have already established relations and contacts at political level with the third countries you have mentioned: the european union is also calling on the united states, canada, australia and new zealand to come up with a system which guarantees visa-free travel to all member states, old and new. we will propose, as requested, concrete action and certain deadlines and we are working to ensure that all new member states can join the schengen area by 2007. you know that it will have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, but we are working to help all the new member states during this period to be able to participate in a european area without internal frontiers.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, for his report. our aim is to prevent and combat the illegal trade in stolen vehicles and improve the functioning of the internal market. the proposal we are discussing today also offers a better use of the largest european database on stolen vehicles, the schengen information system. the financial interests at stake are huge since annually millions of cars are registered and every 10 or 15 seconds a car is stolen, which has also been underlined by the rapporteur. since vehicle theft is one of the foremost crimes to affect citizens directly, our working together to reduce it will have an immeasurable impact on their security. we propose that under certain conditions national vehicle registration authorities should be allowed to consult the cis data registers on stolen vehicles and stolen vehicle documents, prior to registering a vehicle that is already registered in another schengen state. this information will make it more difficult to sell stolen vehicles in other schengen states. at the same time, it will increase victims’ chances of reclaiming their lost property. this is an excellent way in which europe can serve its citizens and promote concrete operational cooperation. our proposal will also make the law enforcement process more manageable by facilitating access to information. i agree with the rapporteur that the current situation is far from transparent. in view of the millions of cars that are presented for registration each year, authorities lack resources to check all cars in accordance with current requirements. our proposal will grant this access on the basis of a transparent and common set of rules and data protection principles. compliance with the rules will be monitored in a manner similar to other searches in the cis. data protection considerations made us differentiate between access arrangements for public and for private vehicle registration bodies. finally, the commission welcomes the amendments proposed by the european parliament, in particular amendment 3, which allows for a reporting system with a view to collecting reliable data. obviously when the cis ii is in place a systematic reporting system will be guaranteed by the commission.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i have had some reservations about this proposal during the first reading and as a lawyer i object to its being defined as part of transport policy when in reality it is a system which extends the very extensive information systems and the most extensive system of police surveillance and control we have, namely the schengen system, which is in principle questionable. if it were the case that access to these systems by the supervisory authorities was suitable for preventing crime in this area, that would be interesting. but even if it were, there are such serious concerns about the extension that our group will vote against it, although we greatly appreciate the rapporteur's very commendable efforts to get the obligation to report on whether the system is working at all implemented. we have the concerns about the monitoring system which make this a further extension of a system of police monitoring and control which probably has no reasonable effect whatsoever.
today we are voting on a directive which is supposed to protect and improve groundwater in the eu. and it may do so in some places through limit values for the water content of, among other things, spray poisons, i.e. pesticides. in denmark we drink groundwater directly without chemical purification through a decentralised water supply system. we therefore feel that it is wrong to allow poison in groundwater. we should not wait to react until a limit or a sum limit is reached. we must react as soon as we can measure that a pesticide or its degradation product has reached the root zone of the crust. the authorization of pesticides was to be based on the precondition that they could not penetrate the topsoil and thus reach the groundwater. when we can measure the pesticides and their degradation products in the water, the approval has been wrong and the use must stop immediately. in denmark we have by far the most bans on the use of pesticides, but the eu is now going to lift some of them, and this shows that the constitution's talk of a high level of protection can remove the highest protection, and it also shows that the so-called environmental guarantee is mostly propaganda. the groundwater is precisely an area which could justify special rules in denmark, because we drink groundwater without purification, but even here special consideration is not accepted. how could we prove that danes are more exposed than germans to allergenic and carcinogenic substances, for example? the amendments of the june motion are designed to ensure that action is taken as soon as pollution can be measured, and if this is not adopted, i would urge the commission to state that countries where groundwater is consumed directly without treatment can introduce better protection. thank you, mr president, although there is not much to thank you for so far.
i would like to support the request, mr president, and i would recommend that you study article 213 of the existing treaties, which states that members of the commission 'shall give a solemn undertaking when they take up their duties, that they will ...', and then i skip a little, 'in particular the duty to exercise honesty and restraint in the performance of certain duties or the acquisition of certain benefits after their term of office'. and if you do not comply with this provision of article 213, you may be dismissed or deprived of your right to a pension or other similar benefits. the treaty provides for honesty after the cessation of hostilities. that doesn't mean you shouldn't be during your service. so i would recommend that we vote in favour and get a full statement from the commission on that gift.
for the uen group. madam president, this proposal to amend the working time directive is as absurd a piece of eu legislation as the directive it seeks to amend. this is an unwarranted interference in the affairs of the labour market and it is not surprising that the social partners have rejected the directive. the conditions to which the directive applies are very different in the 25 member states, and whatever additional words are written in the directive on the protection of employees and privacy, it is and will remain the expression of the eu's regulatory hysteria. the european parliament obviously wants low growth. in my country, which undoubtedly has the highest standard of protection for workers in the eu, these relationships are agreed between the social partners. this has worked out well. firstly, we have a larger share of the active age groups in the labour market than any other eu country. we do not have the strikes that we see again and again in belgium and france. we have unemployment at only half that of the eurozone and we have the second highest gdp per capita in the eu. it is incredible that we should find ourselves in the position of having the eu, which has not been able to solve these problems nearly as well as we have, decide for us. it is better to come to denmark and see how things are done, and then go home and find out on a national basis what can be done under your own circumstances. it is quite impossible to judge how much a people works by looking at the length of their working hours. the way you organize, the way you train your workforce, the way you are efficient is what counts. in my country, people work efficiently, so they can get by with shorter working hours. these are not matters in which outsiders should interfere, and i recommend voting against this directive.
madam president, if the objectives of the lisbon strategy are to be achieved, the social and employment situation in europe must be improved. the opt-out for the 48-hour working week must be removed. no country should be able to opt out of the rules on working time and thus have a labour market in which employees are subjected to unsustainable and exhausting long working weeks. the opt-out has nothing to do with social europe, it creates the possibility of social dumping, where countries can choose and screw up the rules they want to follow. that is not the way forward for europe. we cannot and should not compete on low wages or long working days. the people of europe must feel that the european union is working in their interests. all the studies clearly show that long working weeks are harmful to both safety and health. a 48-hour working week, with a better definition of working time and leisure time, and encouraging companies to take into account the family life of workers, is a strengthening of the opportunities of employees. by voting in favour of the committee's report, we are showing the people of europe that we want a social and fair europe.
in writing. we have voted in favour of the gue/ngl resolution on the mccartney case. we have abstained from voting on the resolution of the other groups. this resolution contains many good points, but its starting point in article 1 is that the murder is a political murder organised by the ira. that's probably not true, and the police investigation is not over. it makes the whole resolution unbalanced.
president of the council. mr president, i can indeed confirm to you, in the context of this council statement on the world bank, that the world bank plays a very significant role in the field of financing development on a global scale. it is clear that the management of the world bank, both politically and administratively, is therefore a matter of great importance. however, as a representative of the presidency of the council of the union, i am unfortunately not in a position to take a position on behalf of the council or to report on the work carried out by the council on this subject. the union as such - and i regret to say this too - plays no role in the policy-making and the functioning of the world bank. it is therefore for the member states of the union which are also members of the organs of the world bank to define their position vis-à-vis the bank. the council has therefore not taken a position on the matters in question because it has no competence to do so. no council body has discussed a strategy for the world bank, the coordination of a possible european common position in this regard, or the decision-making procedures that exist within this institution. i can also add that the member states are working to coordinate their positions in order to have more weight in international institutions, including international financial institutions such as the world bank, an exercise which does not, however, involve the council as an institution since, as i have said, there is no community competence in this area. it is also true that mr wolfowitz, who has been proposed for the post of president of the world bank, came to brussels where he met with the president of the ecofin council, mr junker, and the representatives of the other european governors of the bank. at this meeting, which was entirely informal, the future strategy of the world bank in relation to financing for development was indeed discussed with the chairman proposed by the us government, which is also in line with custom. i can therefore only regret that the council has no competence in this matter. perhaps we should one day begin to think about better coordination of the member states of the european union within these international institutions, where they actually represent a larger number, even compared to the united states, by their collective weight.
member of the commission. mr president, as the commissioner responsible for relations with the international financial institutions, i am grateful for this invitation to share with you the commission's views on the relations between our institution and the world bank. the world bank and the european union are the two leading global actors in the fight against poverty and in financing development aid. parliament is well aware that the union provides about half of all official aid to developing countries and that, in most cases, the union is also the first trading partner of those countries, which reflects the importance of solidarity in our international dimension. the main objective of community development policy is to reduce and ultimately eliminate poverty. this means supporting sustainable economic, social and environmental development, promoting the gradual integration of developing countries into the world economy and combating inequality. as you know, the union has made a firm commitment to contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals through increased and improved financing of development aid, greater coherence of development policies and, in particular, greater attention to africa. on each of these issues, the commission, on the proposal of my colleague mr michel, has recently put forward specific actions, which i understand mr louis michel has had the opportunity to discuss in this parliament. i would like to refer briefly to the first two issues: financial levels and the need to improve the coherence of development policies. in terms of financing, the union announced at the monterrey summit its commitment to increase official development assistance from the level of 0.33% of gdp in 2002 to 0.39% in 2006 as a first step towards meeting the 0.7% target in 2015. last month the commission proposed two additional and interlinked targets for 2010: an intermediate target for the union as a whole of 0.56 per cent of gdp in development aid, and an individual target for each member state in official development aid, which would be a minimum of 0.51 per cent for member states that were part of the union before enlargement and 0.17 per cent in 2010 for the new member states. but as important as it is to put this effort into practice, it is not enough. apart from aid, the policies of developed countries have a major influence on the ability of developing countries to achieve the millennium development goals and, in this respect, the commission stresses the importance of policy coherence for development and, for the first time, in these communications, makes commitments in this respect. as regards relations with the world bank, i would like to mention two issues: operational cooperation between the commission and the bank, and the representation of the european union in the governance of the world bank. relations between the commission and the world bank are longstanding. we share a common agenda for poverty reduction and we share, of course, the millennium development goals. the world bank works towards these objectives, through its main lines of operations and by assessing progress towards these objectives in the context of the global monitoring report. the commission and the bank work closely together in the delivery of the assistance, through the trust fund agreement signed in 2001 and amended in 2003. this cooperation has resulted in the union's participation in several trust funds, with a total contribution of over eur 1.5 billion since 2000. other examples include aids funds or specific funds such as the multilateral initiative for the reduction of the debt of the most indebted poor countries (hipc). in addition, both the commission and the bank are increasingly relying on national poverty reduction strategies defined by developing countries themselves. in addition to these overall objectives, cooperation with the world bank also focuses on some priority geographical areas, where we carry out joint analyses, have joint policy dialogues and strive to coordinate financial programming for the countries closest to the borders of the european union. we are therefore not only talking about the coordinated action of the world bank with the european institutions in countries which are already members of the union, but of course in the candidate countries and the countries of the neighbourhood policy, such as the western balkans, north africa and the middle east, or the countries belonging to the community of independent states. in these countries, the union's cooperation with the world bank, through the commission, aims to ensure that the policies implemented are complementary and contribute to the incorporation of the community acquis, with particular emphasis on institutional development, the environment and its infrastructures, economic reform and the development of the private sector. in this connection, the commission and, at times, the european investment bank have signed three memoranda of understanding with the world bank over the past five years. these memoranda provide a practical framework for enhanced cooperation in terms of economic dialogue and technical and financial assistance. they cover the coordination of our activities in the area covered by the union's neighbourhood policy and, in the coming months, the memorandum of understanding will be extended to the new member states and candidate countries, in order to include the western balkans. finally, i would like to refer to the representation of the union in the governing bodies of the world bank. the bank currently has 184 member countries, including all 25 member states of the european union. the voting shares of these eu member states at the bank are 28%, while those of the united states are 16%. however, 28% does not reflect the real weight of the union in practice. the european union's share of concessional funding is even higher than that 28%. the example of the recent replenishment of the international development association (ida) is telling. this time, there has been a dramatic change in the contributions of donors, with the european share increasing from 48 to 60% and the us share falling to 13.8%, the lowest in the history of the institution. despite these figures for the union's participation in the bank's capital and financing, we are not taking full advantage of this weight because of the lack of a unified representation of the union in the bank's governing bodies. and so, although numerically the eu member states dominate the bank's board of directors, overall they have less influence than the united states. the commission currently participates only as an observer in the meetings of the bank's development committee, the institution's main decision-making body. it is a situation which is symmetrical to that which occurs in the international monetary and financial committee of the international monetary fund and which stands in stark contrast to the weight of the european union in development cooperation with respect to the actual weight in the world bank or in the life of the international monetary system, through our single currency, in the case of the international monetary fund. the commission has repeatedly stated that if the union is to put an end to the disparity between its influence and its contributions and to become more present on the international scene, it must speak with one voice. if it is able to present a single european position, the union will increase its visibility and influence. in this respect, some progress has been made in the coordination of the union with the bank's governing bodies. for example, since last year, the executive directors from the european union at the world bank have been holding annual meetings with members of this parliament, with the commission and with representatives of non-governmental organizations. the union executive directors at the world bank have agreed to meet weekly to exchange views and these meetings are regularly attended by a commission official from our delegation in washington. the commission is working to strengthen the coordination of european executive directors in washington, but the ultimate aim must be unified representation of the union in the world bank's governing bodies. of course, before taking such a decision, the legal and budgetary implications of the decision will need to be carefully examined, but this should not be an obstacle to serious consideration of how to move towards that objective. in short, our cooperation with the world bank is longstanding and intensive, especially in support of developing countries. the commission wishes to maintain and strengthen these excellent working relations and to improve coordination, both with the world bank at the operational level and between the representatives of the member states in the bank's governing bodies. in this way the union would speak with one voice and have the influence it deserves over the bank.
for the pse group. mr president, mr schmit and mr almunia. i would like to thank the two gentlemen for their speeches today on the world bank, which i feel really focuses on the core need. there is no doubt that today, five years after we signed the millennium declaration on the key needs of the developing countries until 2015 in the year 2000 - i was one of the signatories myself - we must say that it has not gone in the right direction, but that unfortunately in most areas it has gone in the wrong direction. there is no doubt that 54 countries have become poorer in the last 15 years, with 1 billion people living on less than 2 euros a day. the world bank is not functioning optimally. the world bank is undertaking a number of important reforms, but we still have a number of problems to tackle. i would like to propose - and i agree with mr almunia's emphasis on the fact that europe can act with one voice - that we consider four tasks which i believe are urgent. the first task is that we in europe must now really find a solution to act together in the world bank. if we do that, we will have 27.98% of the vote against the united states, which will have 16.39%. today, the closest vote weight to the united states from europe is germany with 4.49% of the vote. i am not talking about a new contradiction - i am talking about a much better balance in the world bank, and i am talking about, as the second task, that we must ask and insist on the world bank that there be a reform of its lending rules and its lending conditions. we must coordinate between the world bank, the imf and the un aid to the developing countries so that we do not overlap but are oriented in the same direction. the third task is that we need to reform the washington consensus. we need to stop making the same demands on the poor countries as we make on the rich countries and help build healthy, strong states in the developing countries that can make development policy a shared property right. and the fourth and final task, mr president, is that we really take the ilo's annual report on world poverty seriously, including in the world bank. decent jobs for all is the key instrument for eradicating poverty. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that i think it is important - as almunia and mr schmit have said - that europe now also takes on the real responsibilities that come with being the world's largest foreign aid organization. we should take part in ensuring that the world bank also follows up on this.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president the responsibility for today's debate lies with those who did not allow us to have the debate last time. when nigel farage brought up the case, i asked for a list of all gifts over 100 euros. i haven't gotten that list yet. on sunday i asked eva joly - the investigating judge who has put businessmen and politicians in prison for corruption - where the line is between gifts and corruption. "120 euros", she said. gifts of greater value do not belong in the public domain. i want to know who gets what from whom and i want to be able to control whether there is any reciprocation. it started very well with barroso. he gave us a list of 3,000 working groups that have been kept secret until now. that list is now on bonde.com. but we don't know the participants. how many friends are placed in the expert groups? how many people are employed outside the normal hiring procedures? how many eu staff and advisers are also paid elsewhere? openness is the best tool of honest rulers to protect themselves against peer pressure. the new commission is not responsible for the sins and scandals of the past, but it could show a new line. give us the names of all the experts. let's see who gets what from the budget. let us look at all the commission's contributions to the legislative process. fire the next liar instead of firing whistleblowers. the commission's dismissed accounting officer, marta andreasen, should be reinstated. starting over with openness, closeness and democracy. you will lose some friends in the upper echelons, but you will gain the confidence of the citizens and the support of european cooperation. thank you, mr president, although i do not yet have enough to thank you for.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have tabled a motion for a general debate which has been rejected. we have put some questions to the commission during the hearings, where we have been promised to shed light on the expert groups. (the speaker continues without the microphone) ...and we still haven't got them, and we won't get them. what is it that needs protecting?
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission welcomes the rapid agreement of the co-legislators on the extension of the multiannual programme for enterprises and entrepreneurship, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises. this will ensure the continuity of support for these companies until the end of the current financial perspective, while the debate on the successor programme, the competitiveness and innovation programme, which is due to start in 2007, is already under way. i am very pleased that the co-legislators have approved additional budgetary resources and i can assure you that these funds can be used effectively to provide access to credit and equity finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. access to financial instruments remains a major problem for some 10-20% of european smes. our eurobarometer surveys repeatedly cite financing difficulties as the main obstacle to the creation of new businesses. the community's financial instruments under the multiannual programme have been very successful in solving this problem. our market-oriented approach has been recognised as exemplary by external evaluators. parliament too has recognised this success and has increased the resources allocated to these instruments year by year. through cooperation with the european investment fund and the use of the financial markets, we are achieving mobilisation effects of up to 1 : 40 with the guarantee instrument and of 1 : 4 on average with the more specific equity instrument, which is tailored to a smaller target group. the additional eur 7 million proposed by mrs thomsen and approved by you today will therefore mobilise many times that amount of investment capital for existing smes and for new business start-ups. the commission drafted its proposal in mid-2004, when the european investment fund was looking rather pessimistically at the prospects for success of the financial instruments in 2005-06 and there was uncertainty about what funds would still be available in the last year of the current financial perspective. we have therefore been careful in determining the amount of money used in our proposal for the financial instruments. now, thanks to the confirmation by the european investment fund, we can better assess the prospects of success of the instruments on the market and we have a clear idea of the resources of the community budget for 2006. the commission intends to build on this success with the competitiveness and innovation programme. of the proposed overall budget of eur 4.2 billion for the programme, which runs from 2007 to 2013, more than eur 1 billion is earmarked for financial instruments. we have proposed two new financing instruments in addition to the existing ones: a new risk capital instrument, the facility for high growth and innovative smes, which is specifically aimed at innovative smes that need financing of between eur 200 000 and eur 2,5 million at the most crucial stage of their growth. finally, a new securitisation facility to make it easier for local and regional banks to extend further credit to smes.
the commission is not madam president, commissioner, and colleagues. the framework programme for the promotion of initiative and entrepreneurship in small and medium-sized enterprises is an important programme for any small business seeking information or funding. the financing part of the programme in particular has always been of great importance to the european parliament and has therefore been increased each year by the parliament and the council during the annual budgetary procedure. the reason for the proposed one-year extension of the multiannual programme for the promotion of initiative and entrepreneurship is that the functions it serves will in future be taken over by the successor programme, the 'framework programme for competitiveness and innovation', which is planned to run for the period 2007-13 and which is also the financial perspective. the timetable will thus also follow the seventh framework programme for research, which creates opportunities for better coordination between the programmes. i was initially disappointed to learn that the commission's proposal for a one-year extension of the programme sought to return to the level of the framework programme originally budgeted. i therefore proposed to increase the budget for the extension by eur 9.5 million more than the commission's proposal. this amount was proposed partly because it would correspond to the actual expenditure of the programme for 2004 and partly because it would bring the budget for the renewal year 2006 to the level of the average of the previous years. at the same time, it should be noted that this is a programme which, according to both users and evaluation experts, is well-functioning and fulfilling its objectives. it is important to maintain and expand support for entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises in europe. they are the backbone of europe's economy and their continued growth is a prerequisite for achieving the lisbon objectives. finally, the external evaluation report has underlined that the financial instruments of the existing programme are very much in line with the needs of the new member states. the limitation of resources will therefore hamper the integration of these countries into the european economy. in the financing part of the programme, the most widely used financial instrument, the sme guarantee facility, had supported 112,000 smes in europe by the end of 2002. of these 112,000 enterprises, 93% had fewer than 10 employees, but 6% had fewer than 50 employees. it is a well-functioning and far-reaching programme and i was therefore very pleased when a unanimous committee on industry, research and energy backed my proposal for an increase in the budget. since the extension is due to take effect on 1 january 2006, an agreement at first reading was important for both parliament and the council. my colleague mr březina and i met with the council and the commission on several occasions and now agree with the council on a first reading agreement with a budget increase of eur 7 million instead of the eur 9.5 million i originally proposed. it is a compromise that ensures that the programme's information centres and similar activities can continue without interruption from 1 january 2006, while at the same time expanding and strengthening the financial instruments to meet the growing demand from smes across europe. i should like to take this opportunity to express my deep gratitude to the luxembourg presidency, which has shown great political flair and a tireless willingness to compromise, to the commission, which has supported the negotiations with technical analysis and guidance, and finally to my colleague, mr březina, whose active participation in the meetings and constant support i greatly appreciated.
mr president, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. europe is lacking in growth. i have now seen that even the oecd's economic chief says it loud and clear: europe lacks growth. and anyone who is seriously concerned with europe from an economic point of view can see that. in fact, europe is not in such a bad position as far as our export markets are concerned. we are the region of the world which has done better in recent years in terms of exports than the united states and japan. i am not saying that this is good enough, but i am saying that this is not the main problem, and i am saying that the main problem right now is that europe lacks growth in its internal economy, in its internal market. and that growth will not come by itself, it will not come by half-hearted reforms that do not have the confidence and support of the people. this growth will only come about through a combination of modern reforms which do not turn into a competition for social cuts but a reform on human premises in the form of a more modern, socially active labour market policy combined with coordinated investment. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. they have put forward a good economic programme. i can nod yes to all the points. all i'm saying is that i would love to see an extra dimension. i would like to hear a good message from the economic guidelines to all the member states: let us now jointly invest in the lisbon objectives in each country over the next three or four years, and let us do it at the same time. to do so at the same time is europe's secret weapon. this will enable us to exploit our economic interdependence and to combine social security with economic competitiveness and good growth. we have shown this in the nordic countries and we can follow it up throughout europe.
in writing. nutrition and health claims today, crucial questions concerning the danish environment and health were put to the vote. in denmark we have a health policy based on a comprehensive diet of healthy and natural foods. this means that we in denmark have so far managed to maintain our ban on the addition of vitamins and minerals, artificially enriched foods and health claims. in many eu member states, the extensive liberalization of foodstuffs has gradually created the need for strict regulation in this area, which takes care of and ensures the safety and health of consumers. public health and consumer protection go hand in hand. in denmark we want to maintain a high level of protection, but this requires that we maintain our system of a national ban on the unnecessary addition of vitamins and minerals which are harmful to health. only in this way can we guarantee our citizens the health guarantee to which they are entitled! thank you for your votes. thank you for speaking.
for the uen group. i would also like to express my full support for mr bösch's report, which is both good and insightful. mr bösch pointed out that we still have far too much fraud, and i can only agree with that. i think you can say there are two problems. mr bösch put it this way: eu money has a different value in the member states than their own money. it is a problem which the former president of the court of auditors, professor friedmann, already raised years ago, and professor friedmann put it in the way that we cannot continue to give this aid in that form. we must give the countries cheap loans instead, because then they have to pay the money back and then they will take care of what they spend it on. the second problem is that the eu's legislation and administration are still not good enough. there are still too many cases where money goes into the wrong pockets or where we do not get value for it. i recently spoke to a danish expert who works for a private company and for the eu in the former yugoslavia and he told me that the aid provided by the world bank, the ebrd and the eib is controlled quite differently, whereas on the eu side they leave five and seven equal. when the money's spent, everything's good. this is something we must have looked at so that we become as competent as the world bank and the other big banks in ensuring that the money is used properly.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, i too must commend and thank our rapporteur, mr böge, for his thorough and skilful work, first in analysing the commission's proposals and then in formulating parliament's position on the financial perspective. my group supports this report. this call for negotiations with the council is financially responsible. we have found savings and we have found re-prioritization in relation to the commission's proposal. in the alde group we particularly welcome the efforts made in research, education and investment in transport and energy. this is precisely where we need to invest significantly more budgetary resources in the eu. this is the future and can give the eu a stronger position. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. they will cut back on ambitious research efforts, and that is completely incomprehensible and out of step with the many beautiful declarations of the council on joint research. it is precisely here, where joint action could really strengthen the competitiveness of the union, that we are backing down and saving amounts which, in the grand scheme of things, are very modest, and as commissioner barroso has told us, these savings will really have an impact on the ambitions in this area. in the alde group we are very pleased with the increased resources that parliament is devoting to asylum and justice policy and to the common foreign policy. legal policy is a rapidly growing area and it is important that we have a framework large enough to accommodate new needs in the next eight years. a lot can happen in eight years. foreign policy is also an area where new needs are constantly arising. this is shown by the experience of recent years, when we suddenly had to find money for kosovo, afghanistan, serbia, iraq and, most recently, for the victims of the tsunami. such sudden needs must be taken into account in the financial framework so that we do not have to cut aid to other poor countries. we have placed particular emphasis on the need for adequate resources to support the new neighbours of the enlarged union. the developments in ukraine are the latest example of the need for the eu to support the democratic development of its close neighbours. agricultural policy and support for the poor regions of the old member states will continue to occupy a large part of the budget. the overall framework must therefore be set at a level which also allows for new needs to be financed. the eu budget still amounts to only about 1% of gross national income and the amounts we are now discussing cannot be said to be the source of a budgetary crisis in any member state. i would therefore urge the european council to find a solution - a reasonable solution - at the forthcoming summit, to resolve the positions that have been taken and to show that results can be achieved. i agree with mr böge when he says that we too want a solution from parliament, but not at any price, but i would say that parliament has made a constructive, realistic proposal. we must find a solution so that the structural funds programmes to develop the economies of the new member states can be launched on 1 january 2007. not reaching a result, not showing a willingness to negotiate is simply too bad.
mr president, the constitution is dead in france and buried in the netherlands, and yet the otherwise fine president of the council acts like a thief when he wants to continue the ratification process on the rejected text. start fresh. let a working party with an equal number of supporters and opponents sit down and make a debate paper with proposals for rules of the game that can unite us instead of dividing europe. the referendum group in this parliament is happy to help. we have seven current demands for transparency, the election of commissioners, majority voting with a quorum, the principle of subsidiarity, controlled by the national parliaments, flexibility of minimum provisions, enhanced cooperation instead of coercion. read our play. we have tested the first two claims with a poll in denmark. they were supported by 80% of the voters, while only 12% were against. that is the kind of support we need for a common playing field. use your ears and listen to the voters and please come to our press conference at 4:00.
mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, the main task of the european council in a week's time is to create clarity, clarity and clarity. the worst decision you can make in a week is to go on as usual. because that's not clarity. there is a risk of triggering a self-reinforcing no-no spiral in several referendums. i would say that clarity is the fundamental requirement. and mr president-in-office, i fear that if clarity is not created, the real choice we face will be whether we can stick to the treaty of nice or we can buy a little more time. and if i have to choose between sticking to the nice treaty or having a little more time to think through how we are going to solve the situation, i would prefer more time. we cannot live with the treaty of nice. we cannot solve the problems of the treaty of nice. we must have that constitutional treaty in place. and if more time is necessary, i prefer more time. mr president, we can hold all the conventions and we can put forward all the treaty texts we wish, but it will not help if we do not tackle the real problems in europe. for two years this socialist group and the european socialist party, of which i am president, have made clear their wish that europe should invest in more and new jobs. europe coming together to respond to the threats of globalisation as many ordinary people see it. our main task now under the british presidency, and i think we have actually got some very exciting signals from prime minister tony blair, is to reconcile people's need for social security with new jobs in a globalised world. i would also like to express my full support for the wish of the president of the council and the president of the commission that we should have the financial perspectives ready within a week. it will be the most important signal that we are not paralysed but that we are taking people's concerns seriously.
mr president, we are 90 members who signed a motion of censure against the commission because it was the only way to... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, on a point of order, it is article 100 of the rules of procedure, on interpretation of the rules.
mr president, we are 90 members who have signed a motion of censure... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, this concerns the way in which we interpret the rules of procedure. i arranged with the secretary-general to have a one-minute explanation. that is normally enough for a group leader.
the problem, mr president, is that we are 90 members who have signed a motion of censure against the commission because it was our only chance to get the president of the commission to come here to parliament and explain the connection between a gift of eur 20-25 000 and a subsequent decision on eur 10 million in regional aid to his friend. and we wrote in our no-confidence agenda that we would withdraw it if we had a reasonable explanation. we have had an explanation, but the president of parliament has meanwhile decided that we shall vote against the agenda, against the wish which is on the agenda itself. and we are satisfied that in future motions of censure must be accepted from the moment they are tabled with 74 signatures and that they are then automatically put to the vote. but the agenda has been tabled under the old rules and some of us have therefore chosen not to vote when the agenda comes to the vote. this does not mean that we are satisfied with the commission's answer, but we are pleased with the commitments made in the debate and we will pursue the matter in the committee on budgetary control and continue to fight for full transparency on donations ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. we are 90 members who have signed a motion of censure against the commission because it was the only way to get the president of the commission to come here to parliament and explain the connection between a holiday gift of eur 20-25 000 and a subsequent decision on eur 10 million in regional aid to his friend, spyros latsis - number 54 on the list of the world's richest people. we wrote in our motion of no confidence that we would withdraw it if we were given a reasonable explanation. we have had an explanation, but in the meantime the president of parliament has decided that we shall vote on the agenda - against our wishes. we are satisfied that in future a motion of censure must be accepted from the moment it is tabled with 74 signatures and that it is then automatically put to the vote. but the agenda has been tabled under the old rules. some of us therefore choose not to vote when the agenda is put to the vote. that does not mean that we are satisfied with the commission's answer. but we welcome the commitments made in the debate and we will pursue the matter in the committee on budgetary control and continue to fight for full transparency on gifts and membership of the commission's 3000 secret working groups.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament voted today in favour of the resolution on an area of freedom, security and justice. we are aware, however, that parts of the resolution concern an area covered by title iv of the ec treaty and therefore do not apply to denmark, as provided for in the protocol on the position of denmark.
the commissioner almunia, ladies and gentlemen, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. first of all, i think that commissioner almunia has made a very sensible move with regard to the stability and growth pact. it's a sensible modernisation. we can totally back it. i think we have the golden triangle of europe with three types of tools we need to work together. the first is the stability and growth pact, the second is the lisbon process and the third is the broad economic guidelines. having said that, mr president, i cannot conceal the fact that our debate today is also taking place in the light of a referendum in france and the netherlands, which among many other things also reflects a popular demand for a real agenda for europe. and this real agenda for europe also means that we must say that we have understood that what is needed in europe is this stability and growth pact, but it does not create new jobs in itself. it is the basis for initiating structural reforms and at the same time initiating macroeconomic investment. and it is this effort that requires national governments to adopt the mindset that we have to deal with. the modernisation of the stability and growth pact has given us a good tool, but that tool must now have other tools at national level which can create the new jobs we so badly need. and so i hope, commissioner almunia, that this pact, which is now almost in place - and i am sure it will be - is the first step towards a new real agenda, which is in fact the prerequisite for creating popular understanding of the modernisation of the treaties which we are discussing so vehemently these days.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have today voted in favour of patrick gaubert's report on legal and illegal immigration and the integration of immigrants. however, we are aware that parts of the report concern an area covered by title iv of the ec treaty and therefore do not apply to denmark, as provided for in the protocol on the position of denmark.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i have often praised the luxembourg presidency. you always do it well technically, but today i have to criticize you, jean-claude juncker, for the decision of the summit to continue the ratification process with a text which the french have rejected in a binding referendum. what a mockery of your french neighbours and your dutch benelux friends. what a disregard for the law. the treaty of nice is unequivocal: it can only be amended by unanimity, and that unanimity is not there when the netherlands has said that they will not ratify. and what an escape from reality. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the constitution is dead. the dead must be buried. they shall not be suspended or suspended. with all due respect, even you cannot breathe life into a corpse by threatening to resign as prime minister if the luxembourgers also vote no thanks to a constitution which will transfer power from voters to officials by population without real democracy. you're wasting your time. let us start anew, let us bring together an equal number of supporters and opponents of the constitution and let us make a joint proposal for new rules of the game. then we can discuss it and choose a new convention that can represent the electorate's attitude to the future of europe. we can then have a practical, easy-to-understand, concise cooperation agreement which can be adopted by referendum on the same two days in all the eu countries. if we make a deal that is better than the treaty of nice, most europeans will naturally vote in favour. if the headlines are openness, closeness and democracy, we will be happy to do so. a new poll shows that 80% of danes support the proposal to reverse the burden of proof in transparency cases, 79% want each country to be able to choose its own commissioner. only 11% and 12% respectively are against. that is the kind of support we should be seeking in a new treaty. it is not a constitution to override the constitution of luxembourg and other countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr blair, thank you for a wonderful, engaging speech. you're a formidable speaker, and you're very persuasive. but you would have been more credible if you had presented the same european vision to your constituents at the last parliamentary election you had. i see your presidency as a historic challenge. in six months' time you can either hand over the presidency to austria as the unifier of europe, or you can close the door with a slam and leave europe even more divided than it is today. it's up to you. first of all, it is a question of putting the european agenda above the national one. it's hard and it takes leadership, but it also takes a will, and i hope you have it. and above all, as one of the leaders of the enlargement process, you should show solidarity with our new member states. i am glad that you attach great importance to the services directive and that you will work hard to remove the administrative burdens. it is precisely by creating a free market in services that we can give our citizens jobs and consumers a choice at reasonable, affordable prices. i look forward to seeing you in six months' time have passed the test as the best leader in europe. then i'll be happy to give you your diploma.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr prime minister. the vast majority of danes, like the british, do not want the eu constitution, because we do not want to give up our sovereignty to politicians who are doing as badly as the eu is doing today. mr blair, you are a very popular politician in denmark, but we will respect you even more if you bury the constitution, because you know very well that it does not solve any of the problems which concern europeans, and which you described very precisely. i would like to thank you for your plans to amend the eu budget. it's all calcified today. it is not the richest who pay the most, and it is not the poorest who receive the most. the eu's policy of aid, both in agriculture and in structures, has lost all meaning. the point is that countries that are diligent and willing to tax their citizens heavily pay to countries that do not reform and do not want to tax their citizens. we talk and talk about research and development, but that is not what we spend the money on. we look forward to the reforms you will bring forward and i wish you luck.
mr president, one could accuse prime minister tony blair of many things, but not of paying lip service. mr blair, you are a courageous and strong leader. you have stated your convictions and the direction in which you wish to go. i thank you for that. let me say that today’s debate should not be about whispering in the corner or blaming somebody else for what happened yesterday, but should focus upon what you said. one thing is worrying the citizens of europe, and that is the future: the lack of jobs and answers to globalisation. the responsibility of parliament is to support a uk presidency which said the following, ‘we have to create changes to equip people to live during permanent changes’. the question is not whether there will be changes but what kind of changes. the question is not whether there will be reforms, but what type of reforms. mr blair, in my short amount of time today i will focus on that question. your principal task internally in europe in the next six months will be to create more jobs through higher growth and the right reforms. it is about doing these things simultaneously. i know that even if you succeed – which i hope you will – in achieving this new european budget, we know and you know that most of the effort to create more jobs takes place in the nation state. it is also the responsibility of the nation states to really focus on a modernisation process and to unite a new social progress with a new competitiveness and growth. today, as your first task internally, i urge you to formulate a new deal among governments to invest in the lisbon process in the next four years, not because it is a requirement of the treaty, but as an obligation to the people. if you can achieve a new agreement during your presidency on goal-oriented investments to increase growth internally, combined with some consensus on the social model, then you are in the driving seat and i sincerely hope you will stay there. (applause)
in writing. the june movement is strongly opposed in principle to a single member state, which would make members of the european parliament the eu's representatives in the member states instead of denmark's representatives in the eu. the representative of the june movement has suggested about 50 times that we should travel on account, and now is the chance to get that in this compromise. the june movement therefore votes in favour of this compromise, while maintaining our opposition in principle to the statute, which was unfortunately approved in the treaty of nice.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament voted today in favour of the michael cashman report on the introduction of a community code for the crossing of the common borders by persons (a6-0188/2005). however, we are aware that the proposal concerns a subject covered by title iv of the ec treaty and therefore does not apply to denmark, as provided for in the protocol on the position of denmark.
in writing. on this point, we believe that nafo is right in calling for a recovery plan for hake. that is why we are not voting against legislation in the eu. but we cannot vote for it either, because there is no chance that this recovery plan will work like other recovery plans in the eu's fisheries policy. we believe that the eu's fisheries policy has failed; despite extensive measures and bureaucracy, stocks are still threatened. this may be due to the fact that isolated intervention in the form of quotas has led to increased discards and there is a hidden transfer and turnover of quotas and rights, and to the high uncertainty associated with by-catches in other fisheries. that is why we cannot vote for a report which continues the eu's fisheries policy unchanged. we believe that parliament should demand an evaluation of the eu's fisheries policy, including the recovery plans.
for the pse group. mr president i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, professor trakatellis, who has shown, in my view, an exceptional ability and an exceptional willingness to compromise. i would like to thank the council as well, which has also moved in some rather basic areas, which has shown that they take parliament seriously, and for that we should be grateful. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it took almost six years before we could pass such important legislation concerning the health of our children. it is a question of substances which are carcinogenic, substances which are hormone disruptors. it is a question that affects every person in europe every day. something that people care about, and yet it's been so long. now that the results are in, i am all the more pleased with the result we have achieved. that's a really good result. firstly, the three most dangerous substances are banned altogether, which is obviously a big step. secondly, we are going to ban the three second most dangerous substances in all kinds of toys that can be put in the mouth, and that is of course the heart of this proposal. there are other positive points which mr trakatellis has already touched on. i won't repeat them. i would point out, however, that this is the basic sign of legislation to which parliament has adhered. we have not been swayed by the otherwise massive lobbying efforts coming from industry. the industry has not been allowed to trumpet its position. we have insisted that in such an important area the precautionary principle must apply. of course, we must also maintain proportions, but this is about the health of our children and therefore the precautionary principle must be used. i have been unable to help wondering, almost having to pinch myself in my arm to make sure i was hearing correctly, on several occasions during the negotiations when rapporteurs - a few, admittedly - spoke against this proposal. it is a question of the safety of our children, and yet the precautionary principle has not been applied. i also see that some of the amendments to which mr verheugen referred have been tabled. i assume there was a mistake in the translation, because i took it as if they were part of the compromise they could not support. these amendments are not part of the compromise. the compromise does not include the parts which are in amendments nos 22 and 23.
mr president, i would like to thank you. phthalates are used to soften plastic in toys and can cause foetal, reproductive and hepatic damage, and therefore should be banned in all toys. the directive deals with six different plasticizers divided into two groups. one group is proposed to be completely off-limits to children of all ages. this is a strengthening of the danish rules, where the ban only applies to toys intended for children under three years of age. the second group of phthalates is proposed to be banned in some toys intended for children under three years of age, but not in all toys. and here the danish rules are weakened, which completely prohibit this group of substances in all toys for children under three years of age. the directive allows a limit of 0.10%, rather than half of denmark's 0.05%. it makes no sense to distinguish between children under and over three years of age, because it is difficult for the eu to control whether little sisters borrow big brother's toys. in order to ensure a high level of protection, i have tabled two amendments with a health guarantee so that we can be sure that there is room for all the priority countries in the eu. and if the proposal is implemented without a health guarantee, then some countries, including denmark, will have a lower level of protection in some areas than we have today.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president commissioner, you gave a very vivid description of the current situation in belarus. things are going wrong, and that is all the more disconcerting, since there is a springtime mood, especially in other countries of the former soviet union, which we do not recognise at all in belarus. they mention a number of ongoing programmes. but i think it is very true, as mr klich pointed out, that many of the eu programmes are aimed at neighbouring countries which have some form of democratic structure. it is different when we are dealing with a dictatorship, as is the case in belarus. we need other instruments. as you know, tacis has a lot of resources to solve environmental problems, to solve border control issues. but how do we know that the way mr lukashenko manages these funds is in the union's interest? i therefore think that the proposal contained in the resolution which we are voting on tomorrow is a very good one. this is a text which the alde group can fully support. it is important that we support the right to freedom of expression in belarus, and we simply have to tackle some of these projects, which will be very, very modest in terms of money, but which will mean an incredible amount in terms of morals for the people of belarus who are fighting for democracy. they need to hear and understand that there is someone who knows their situation and who is backing them up and who will support them wholeheartedly. they are fighting for their lives, at great personal risk. we have to support them from the outside. we have a responsibility and i think you should explain to us how you intend to tackle it in practice.
in writing. we are voting in favour of the report on the mandate for the budgetary conciliation procedure for the financial year 2006. we believe, however, that in the future the eu budget must be reformed and modernised. this requires, in the main, reform of the agricultural policy. we believe that the amount of agricultural aid should be reduced. we also believe that cohesion policy should focus primarily on the needs of the new member states.
the commission. mr president the situation in zimbabwe is currently evolving from bad to terrible. the latest brutality, the so-called operation drive out rubbish, bulldozed entire neighborhoods. the un estimates that more than 200,000 people are homeless, many of whom are now in danger of dying of cold. the violent and systematic persecution of mugabe's critics is developing into a humanitarian catastrophe. according to the bbc, methodist bishops warned of genocide the other day. the reaction from the outside world is still too weak and the sanctions that have been adopted are hardly enforced. the worst thing is that the sadc countries, and south africa in particular, are still holding mugabe's hand and accepting the immense suffering he is inflicting on his people. the committee on development and cooperation has recently heard all the answers, but it has also made proposals on what can be done. first of all, the eu must put much stronger pressure on both the un and the sadc, and in particular on south africa, so that the eu can finally live up to the responsibility it has by virtue of its own strength. in addition, there is a very concrete way to increase support to civil society both within zimbabwe and beyond, in order to build a culture of human rights and to provide more evidence of human rights violations. we can increase support for victims of torture and organised violence both in zimbabwe and in exile, and provide proper legal aid for manifestly unfounded trials of human rights defenders and persons who are or are considered to be supporters of the opposition. you can support a free press. newspapers are published and news from england and neighboring countries is broadcast. but all of this costs a lot of money. in short, we welcome the decision, but we would like to highlight here these concrete possibilities of helping and hope for a favourable treatment from the commission.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that the civil section of the house is trying to make light of an otherwise serious matter. the protection of the safety and health of workers is at the heart of social europe. this directive seeks to improve the conditions of workers by highlighting all the health hazards to which workers are exposed at work as a result of optical radiation. sunlight is a risk for many who work outdoors daily. the number of skin cancer cases has increased sevenfold in the last 30 years, and it is clear that the risk of skin cancer is much higher if you are employed in, for example, the construction or agricultural sectors. this is the reality we must face and these are the figures which make it our duty to require employers in the future to inform their employees of how to protect themselves against the sun's dangerous rays. radiation at work is dangerous and there is a need for common european rules. the commission has been asked to describe all the risks to which workers are exposed in connection with their working lives. the harmful uv radiation from the sun is dangerous and must of course be mentioned in the directive. for the worker, cancer is equally palpable, whether it is caused by natural or artificial radiation. of course, the worker bears responsibility for his own safety and health. we are simply asking that employers should also take their share of the responsibility. we have found a solution which does not overburden employers and which takes into account the protection of workers. the civil resistance can only be interpreted as another attempt to renationalize labour legislation. a completely incomprehensible view which will distort competition within the eu's borders. there must be common european rules. this is the only way to ensure decent conditions for all european wage-earners.
madam president, commissioner, minister lewis, i would like to thank you for your report. apart from the external budget, it should be a simple matter to agree on the 2006 budget, because there is plenty of room for the increases requested by the commission under the ceiling of the financial perspective. but almost as if by ritual, the finance ministers have sat down and made their decisions in all sorts of areas, first and foremost in foreign policy, but also in payments to the structural funds and internal policy, and this is surprising in view of the much better implementation of the structural fund programmes, among other things, which we have seen in recent years. research has been cut and funding has been cut for other projects under the lisbon process, which eu leaders are hoping to keep alive. in the alde group we must particularly deplore the ravages of the savings ratio in the programmes for the development of small and mediumsized enterprises, programmes which develop, among other things, the provision of bank credit to small enterprises in the new member states, where a large dispersion effect has been achieved with small funds for the benefit of economic development. we must also strongly deplore the savings in the transport sector, including the new agencies for aviation and maritime safety. yeah, well, nothing's too small for the pocketknife, apparently. even the funding for the successful programme to develop drugs for rare diseases must be justified. mr lewis spoke of dialogue and i hope we can have dialogue and cooperation, but unfortunately we will probably have to negotiate the budget without agreement on the framework for the 2007-13 budget.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament voted today in favour of the wolfgang kreissl-dörfler report on the amended proposal for a council directive on minimum standards on procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status in the member states (a6-0222/2005). however, we are aware that the proposal concerns a subject covered by title iv of the ec treaty and therefore does not apply to denmark, as provided for in the protocol on the position of denmark.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have mainly comments on the reports by mr savary and mr zīle, for whom i have been my group's shadow rapporteur, and i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their efforts - they have had very different conditions. mr savary's report concerns a proposal which almost everyone supports, whereas mr zīle had to find common ground on a commission proposal which few people want. my group is satisfied with the outcome of the vote in committee where the proposal for compensation for freight transport was rejected. that is not the same as saying that we do not see problems with the quality of rail freight transport. unfortunately, there are many indications that quality is not improving and may even be declining in some areas. the lack of precision and the lack of flexibility mean that freight transport by train is lagging behind against all political intentions. the question is how we solve this problem. the commission's proposal was far too rigid and out of step with the conditions of a free market. but mr zīle deserves credit for his attempt to find a solution other than a blanket rejection, even though the result was a rejection. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. i have no doubt that as liberalization and free competition take hold, train operations will become more efficient and we will see better quality at a better price and a greater focus on passengers. we will see better quality than the national monopolies have delivered, because i think it is sobering to see that the number of passenger kilometres by train in britain, which has liberalized a lot in the last ten years, has increased by as much as 40%. i also think it is sobering to see that those countries which are investing purposefully in modern high-speed railway operations are also seeing progress whereas trains are losing ground in many countries. that is why both liberalization and investment are important if we are to secure an increased market share for rail transport, not only in freight but also in passenger transport. and it's important that we expedite the process. the common framework for train staff training is a logical consequence of the liberalizations already adopted. that is why mr savary's report is the least controversial of the three railway packages. the main debate has been about who should be covered by the directive on the certification of train staff. should it be only train drivers or other staff, and should it be only staff in international train transport or even purely national transport? in my group we are generally satisfied with the result that we have now. an appropriate balance has been found, which means that train drivers and staff directly involved in safety are covered. it is a wise decision to extend the rules to international rail transport in the first instance, and then, after carefully weighing the pros and cons through a cost-benefit analysis, we can eventually look at whether staff on purely national transport should be covered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway companies are not subject to unnecessary costs. last but not least, i would like to express my great satisfaction that parliament's proposal for the third railway package takes account of the liberalisation of passenger transport and introduces common rules on passenger rights which apply to all passengers and which are, moreover, much simpler and less bureaucratic than the commission's proposal. mr savary then asks: 'what about the small countries? 'i come from a small country where free competition for train operation has been gradually introduced and where the national railway company dsb is competing on its home track and at the same time now operates in sweden and has been approved to bid on routes in the uk. dsb has prepared itself for free competition by modernising and restructuring its business, replacing the old monopoly and agency culture with a modern corporate culture that puts the passenger more at the centre. it's the way forward.
mr president, the citizens of europe do not welcome turkey to the eu. if this parliament votes for the opening of the negotiations, it will be acting against the wishes of the citizens who voted us into this house. the citizens of the eu do not want to see a non-european country and a non-european culture in the eu. our citizens do not want the koran to have any influence on european democracy. they do not want to pay for the development of turkey. the politicians who would like turkey to enter say that turkey must take on all of our values. they do not know what they are asking for. you cannot take the culture out of a people. we believe our culture is unique. we are building the eu upon it. but the turks think their culture is the best and they demand space for it in europe. they tried that for a thousand years. we rejected it, but now some politicians will open the door that can destroy the eu. they underestimate islam; they underestimate the demographic and economic effect of a country in which the religion is not only a religion, but also decides the politics. (beifall)
mr president, i would like to thank you. when the eu opens accession negotiations with turkey on 3 october 2005, it will show that we in the eu keep our promises. and that is how it should be in the legal society that the eu is and should be. turkey is in a state of rapid development. i've seen it with my own eyes. turkey is really changing day by day. we must support and encourage this process of change. but not everything is as it should be in turkey - far from it. the eu-turkey customs agreement has been signed, but turkey still does not allow cypriot ships to enter turkish ports. this is completely unacceptable. my demands to mr erdogan are crystal clear. turkey must treat the cypriot ships as if they were danish or french - the ships must have access now. this is the imperative that the eu foreign ministers will put to turkey on monday, 3 october 2005.
in writing. the compromise resolution does not express our political view on the 25th anniversary of solidarnosc, so this is our declaration of vote. we condemn the oppressive so-called communist system that was ruling poland after the second world war. we supported the workers' movement and solidarnosc in their struggle in the 1980s for better working conditions, social justice and true democracy. poland is today a political democracy mainly thanks to the struggle of solidarnosc. there is still a need for a strong trade union movement in today's poland, since the workers' rights and social justice are far from being guaranteed in poland's neo-liberal economic system.
in writing. we shall vote in favour of the overall report on a strengthened partnership for the outermost regions we do so because we recognise the special situation facing the outermost regions and we accept their need for community support. but we have had to vote against a number of parts of the report. we have done so mainly because we do not believe that they should have a special status and therefore support is fundamentally contrary to the other policies and values of the community. we voted against proposals which advocate an outdated agricultural and fisheries policy which does not serve the interests of the community as a whole, nor the long-term interests of the outermost regions. protectionism, tariffs and trade barriers are not sustainable solutions. support for the outermost regions must be based on sustainable development.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president i would also like to thank you for the first part of mr vatanen's introduction today. i think that was a very good description of the scale of the problem. the problem is grotesque in scale, and it is terrible that we are not doing anything more serious about it. i have to say that the proposals put forward by mr vatanen really have no bearing on the scale of the problem. larger and wider roads: they are faster to drive on, and they can carry many more cars! we can say with some certainty that what comes out of this is more accidents where we should have restricted traffic instead. i am glad that the report mentions the soft road users and that it has a zero target. but the soft trafficker has no protection at all in this report unless we get the amendments adopted which establish fixed speed limits in europe, namely a maximum of 130 km on motorways and 30 km in cities, and at the same time something serious is done to ensure that these requirements are respected. i think that there is a dramatic difference between the problem statement so beautifully presented by mr vatanen and the pathetic proposals.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank the commission for not having gone completely wrong. if european industry is to have a chance in the future, it must be the most elegant, environmentally friendly and knowledge-intensive but low-resource industry that has to survive, not heavy industry. what we have seen here has been quite shocking: it is the old-fashioned heavy industries that have tried to stifle others by invoking state protection in the most repugnant traditions of the rich oecd countries, where they have wanted to protect their own markets but force the poor countries to open their markets - usually to the double detriment of the poor. no, the rich countries must open up, and then they must invest in innovation. it was to ensure that this whole process was carried out that the multifibre arrangement was given ten years to be dismantled. there are indeed countries which have taken this seriously and have managed to transform themselves without losing jobs. the penalties for running away from agreements are that they cannot compete with sunset industries under state protectionism. the same thing is happening in the chemical industry, where it is again 'chemical ali' who is coming with the backs of governments and trying to destroy modern industries. we must hope that we have an industry which can survive even if the poor countries are on their feet, and we must do everything we can to ensure that the poor countries succeed. i cannot go into that here - there is no time for that - but that must be the objective and not that we should be closing ourselves in again to the detriment of all parties.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are all glad that the great and poor china is getting back on its feet and developing, but at the same time it is important to draw attention to the terrible social and environmental conditions. something has to be done about that! i hope that most of us can agree that it is not only the eu that has a great responsibility, but that it should be within the international agreement system - that is to say, the wto and the rule of law principle that should guide development, and not arbitrary quota systems that too easily tie the poor countries in almost slave-like relations with their former colonial powers. if we are to have a say in the wto, we must be credible, but you are only credible if you are worth believing! and it is a bit onerous that we only think of all these rules when it is our own production that needs to be protected. if these rules were to apply, we would not be able to import a drop of oil from saudi arabia, which does not even know how to spell human rights, but where you never hear about human rights and the environment, etc. we must strengthen our position in the wto by opening up our markets, not by forcing poor countries to do so. the rich countries must have open markets and we must make demands: ilo demands and demands for compliance with the convention on the rights of the child and the other environmental conventions. it is absolutely the only way to go, and it is also the way we should properly follow.
in writing. bioenergy is unnecessary. an energy plan based on energy savings and with energy from renewable sources, solar, wind, wave power and with hydrogen as the energy carrier is more than enough to meet the needs of the planet. at the same time, it is highly energy efficient and clean. there is therefore no need to take up farmland for energy purposes. if we are talking about bioenergy, it is only as fuel for a kiln. this is an efficient and clean biofuel, but it is not of such a scale that it deserves to be included in an overall plan for energy supply. bioenergy is not a renewable energy source, but a renewable source. plants absorb co2 equivalent to that released by combustion. by making ethanol from grain, clovergrass, and wood biomass is less than the fossil energy inputs. grain uses 29% more energy than it produces, crop grass 29% and wood 57% pimentel - natural resources research, vol.14, no.1, march 2005. finally, the eu should not dictate the energy choices of individual countries, especially when they are based on such dubious grounds.
mr president, thank you to the commissioner. i think we all welcome the fact that there has been such a strong focus on africa, both politically and fortunately also economically. it is indisputable that a whole range of extraordinary efforts are needed if africa is to be lifted out of poverty, and it is therefore appropriate that the eu should draw up a comprehensive strategy for our relations with africa. there are many good things in the commission's proposal. environment, good governance, peace building, strengthening the private sector, trade, consideration of women and equality have become a central part of the driving force for development, although i now miss it a little in the commissioner's speech. but there is also a strong and thoughtful proposal for a more centralised planning of eu aid to africa, using, among other things, donor atlases, as if we in europe could sit down and make plans for how aid should be coordinated in the individual african countries. this is in direct contradiction to the principles of aid effectiveness and good donor behaviour which the eu helped to decide at the high-level meeting in paris in march this year on aid effectiveness. african countries should be at the centre of the coordination of assistance, based on their own poverty reduction strategies. if we abandon all that we have achieved here in order to speak with one voice in a top-down strategy, we risk seeing a whole caravan of white elephants invade the african continent instead of skilled poverty reduction. i would like to ask the commissioner what the four points under point 3.3 mean in the first place, if this is contrary to what we have said so far, namely that the countries' own poverty strategies should form the basis of our work.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, the human rights situation in ethiopia is very worrying. after observing a fine and peaceful election - i was part of the delegation - where we were really moved by the tremendous turnout, it is frightening how things have gone since then. hundreds have been arrested, the offices of the main opposition parties have been demolished and closed, the media have been monopolized, the opposition has been prevented from speaking in public and, in time, from speaking at all in parliament. the government's attitude and actions are worsening the situation dramatically. this constant humiliation of the opposition leaders is contributing to an incredibly tense and dangerous situation in ethiopia. other speakers have reviewed what has happened. after the opposition accepted the election result, they were denied the opportunity to work in parliament. i believe, of course, that it is our duty to do everything possible to prevent violence from taking over, but i am not entirely sure that we can best achieve political solutions by simply being discreet in our approach. i think it must be said very loudly and very clearly that this parliament is critical of the destruction of opposition and democracy which is currently taking place in ethiopia, and i very much hope that both in this debate and in the resolution we are going to adopt, we will get the commission to say in very clear language that it is now time to get down to business. political solutions are needed, but so far all this more discreet effort has only resulted in further humiliation and destruction of the opposition. but we must all do what we can to ensure that it does not get out of hand.
mr president, first of all, a thank you to mrs doyle for a very fine piece of work. when you look at what we're up against, the way the f-gas industry is lobbying us at the moment, it's just hair-raising. they are misleading us when they say, for example, that it is more energy efficient to use their toxic gases. in fact, virtually all energy-efficient refrigerators, i.e. those with aa+ and a++, use natural refrigerants and not these gases. it is also not true that you have no alternatives. in fact, in denmark, thanks to strict legislation and a modern industry which really wants to do good for the environment, we have developed alternatives and we can say that we are able to meet the highest standards, and it would be a complete scandal if we were to be kicked back again by an old-fashioned sunset industry which only thinks of itself. let me say one last thing about the mobile gases. i do not understand why we should put such a burden on the environment when we consider how few countries in the world actually need air conditioning in their cars. it's funny how we can't do anything about it, too.
mr president, f-gases can destroy the ozone layer and it is therefore important that all countries are encouraged to make extra efforts to get rid of f-gases. the best thing would be a direct ban, as has been done in denmark. as mrs auken said, danish industry has become accustomed to the ban and is developing environmentally friendly alternatives. however, neither the commission nor mrs doyle's proposal explicitly contains the sustainable ban. mrs doyle deserves credit for applying the minimum provisions of article 175 instead of total harmonization of the internal market. we know she has been under a lot of pressure, but mrs doyle's proposal is hardly enough to maintain the danish ban. i have therefore tabled amendment no 45 with hans blokland, which clarifies that all countries are allowed to go further in protecting the ozone layer against f-gases. i want to make sure that we can maintain our prohibition and thereby the incentive to create the sustainable alternatives. we know that the commission is very strict in its application of article 175 and always wants to level the playing field rather than supporting countries that want to lead. the commission stands for total harmonization rather than environmental promotion, the ozone hole rather than the ozone layer, the past rather than our common future. i would therefore urge all members to support amendment no 45. it reads as follows: 'this regulation shall not prevent member states from maintaining or introducing more stringent protection measures.
mr president, in my country we have spent over 100 years developing a well-functioning labour market. workers and employers enter into voluntary agreements on wages and working conditions. everyone should be welcome to work on agreed terms. we have also developed a nordic welfare model with social citizenship rights for all, financed by high taxes. it has given us a flexible labour market, where it's easy to fire and even easier to hire, and we're creating more jobs than we're losing through globalisation. the commission should therefore say: 'here we have a social security formula where we can have the necessary flexibility. that's what we all need. let us study this remarkable model". instead, the commission says: 'let us declare the nordic contract model and the social welfare model illegal.' mr mc creevy, i am not saying that you should adopt our model, but the commission should understand and respect that it is our choice and we will never let it go, and i would ask mr barosso to withdraw the aid to the latvian company in the vaxholm case. thank you, mr president, although i have nothing to thank you for.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, i think that the draft budget for 2006, which is now before us following the vote in the committee on budgets, is well balanced and i hope that we can agree on the vote tomorrow, not only on the broad lines but also on the details of the compromise reached by a large majority in the committee on budgets. i would also like to thank mr giovanni pittella for his great efforts to achieve reconciliation, for his sensitivity and for his great patience. giovanni pittella has made youth and training programmes a top priority, and i think that is a beautiful thing to do. with very little money, we achieve very big results by putting our money where our mouth is. i would also like to thank mr dombrovskis for his work with the other institutions. the points of the compromise which we in the alde group would particularly like to stress are increased appropriations for the lisbon process, particularly for research and for the programme for the development of credit for small businesses in the new member states. we would also like to emphasize that we have invested in more realistic appropriations for the external sector, where the finance ministers apparently believe that it is the poor countries that must suffer deprivation in order for us to finance the reconstruction after the tsunami, and that it is the poor countries that must finance the compensation for the sugar reform for the countries that lose their quotas. that is totally unacceptable, and that is why it is right to do what we are going to do, namely to use the flexibility instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for two years the payment appropriations in the budget have actually been too small, and that is what we are correcting. the budget line for pilot projects and preparatory actions, which is a small one, is full of wishes and i am glad that we have managed to secure funds for a pilot project on safe resting places along european motorways, so that we can take an active role in combating attacks on long-distance drivers and ensuring greater safety. a small thing, but very important. in the budget of this parliament we will support the compromise which means that we are setting aside reserves for information policy, including a web-tv, that we are setting aside reserves to continue the purchase of buildings so that we save rent in the future. we've been hesitant to go below 20%, but we're backing the settlement. it is important that we do not set aside more than is necessary in the budget. the total budget we have now is greater than the council's budget, but not greater than we can defend. it is clear that this budgetary debate is marked by the lack of agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-13. my group must therefore give its clear support to the proposal that is being put forward. these are realistic and necessary appropriations.
in writing. on behalf of the danish social democratic delegation, mr. poul nyrup rasmussen, mr. henrik dam christensen, mrs. britta thomsen, mr. ole christensen and mr. dan joergensen. the delegation has voted in favour of the bloc vote on 28 amendments. we are aware though, that amendment 15, point f includes the possibility for member states to use disqualification from and ineligibility for political and public office against convicted criminals. we are against this particular point. the danish social democrats are aware, that the proposal concerns an issue within section iv in the teu, on which denmark has an opt-out.
thank you for a wonderful speech to us in june, blair. if you offer the whole british rebate, you won't get a budget compromise for december. the old brussels centralists and the farmers' subsidy riders will not give you a feather in your hat. they think you're too modern. you're not modern enough for us. we miss you declaring the constitution dead and gone and saying: let us start anew, let supporters and opponents of the constitution make joint debates, then let us elect a new convention by direct elections, let the convention draw up one or two proposals which are then sent to a referendum in all countries simultaneously. if the voters decide our common future, we will have the distribution of power between countries and the eu that the voters want. and then use the last months as eu president to ensure transparency in council meetings and access for elected representatives to all documents from the 300 secret working groups in the council of ministers. the groups pass 85% of all legislation behind closed doors. it also obliges the commission to publish the names of the members of the 3000 secret working groups which are preparing the laws. give the elected officials a better understanding of the law and the work. at the eu convention, 200 out of 220 possible signatories signed on to the idea that everything should be open unless it is closed, instead of as it is now, where everything is closed unless it is opened. all the elected officials signed. 23 out of 28 governments, but not the uk, even though peter hain would like to sign. he couldn't go to blair's state department. as president of the european union, blair can cut through. it only takes a simple majority to change the council's rules of procedure so that everything is open in the future, unless a qualified majority adopts an exception. it is a very simple proposal, which has been signed by 20 of the 25 countries present. are you willing to put the motion to a vote?
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year. the left is against the export of live animals and has voted against budget line 05 02 13 04. mr bond's proposals, however, cannot be put into practice and must be regarded as unrealistic and ill-considered.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the left supports a reform of travel allowances so that all reasonable and necessary travel costs are reimbursed. mr bond's proposal is, however, foolish and unworkable.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr michael breiz, for his important report. globalisation and its effects are at the centre of debates within the european union and at the global level. the report contains a large number of proposals, which the commission will analyse in detail. i would like to make a few preliminary remarks on some of the requests and proposals published in the report. i am pleased to see the european parliament's support for the initiatives proposed and developed by the commission to strengthen the social dimension of globalisation. the commission has developed a proactive approach to help spread the benefits of globalisation and redress its negative consequences. the european commission supported the work of the world commission on the social dimension of globalisation, set up by the international labour organisation. the communication of 18 may 2004 contains the original proposals and expresses clear support for the implementation of the world commission's final report. since then, these original proposals of the european commission have received wide support, particularly in the european council, the council of ministers, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. your report and motion for a resolution cover a wide range of issues of great importance to the european commission. expanding the social dimension of globalisation in the european union and beyond requires interlinked actions that will gain widespread support. the commission welcomes the outcome of the un summit in september this year. i would remind you that the commission contributed to the preparation of the summit, in particular through coordination within the european union and through its contacts with the united nations and its specialized organisations such as the international labour organisation. fair globalization and decent work, including basic social rights, are explicitly mentioned in the un summit's final declaration. the declaration goes beyond the establishment of a principle, but stresses that promoting decent work and fair globalisation should be integrated into development strategies at global and national levels. this un support is important for the european union's external action in all areas, in terms of implementing our enhanced cooperation with the international labour organisation and other international organisations and bilateral cooperation with other regions and countries.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. mr president thank you very much. i would like to begin by saying that i am delighted that commissioner špidla is speaking here today. the greatest challenge facing our common future is how europe can help to make globalisation a real opportunity for social progress in the third world. i have just returned from china, mr president, and let me tell you all that in china there is great concern for the future of europe, and i have told my chinese interlocutors that i am too. i'm worried if we can't stand together and work to make an effort in the world that can maintain balance. i am concerned if we cannot stand united in the world to fight for social justice and social progress in the third world. and i am worried for india, for africa, for china and for the entire third world if we cannot come together to uphold this objective. if we do not pursue the objective of greater social progress and justice, the whole world will lose, and so will europe. it is therefore essential to strengthen the fundamental rights of workers, as adopted by the world commission on the social dimension of globalisation. as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs, i fully support this conclusion and i know that my colleague, ole christensen, from the pse group's rapporteur's office in the employment committee, also supports this conclusion. mr president, i have focused on three main issues in my speech. firstly, we cannot promote greater flexibility without in return providing and granting greater social security to our workers, children and women. secondly, europe must not compete on the basis of social dumping. europe must compete at its best and not at its worst, and europe must not export social dumping. thirdly, europe must play the role of the social conscience of the world in relation to development, the environment and workers' rights. i also know that we agree with ole christensen on this. i shall be presenting my views on the socialist party's programme for social growth tomorrow.
for the pse group. madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you for speaking. i would like to begin by thanking rapporteur mihael brejc for his work on the report on the social dimension of globalisation and for the good cooperation in this area. globalization has brought considerable benefits to many people around the world. the benefits are just not equally distributed across all countries and all social groups. the eu has an obligation to do something about this, of course. i am therefore pleased that the report focuses on and creates a debate on the social side of globalisation. we all have a responsibility to find new answers to the challenges. we must ensure that the citizens of europe do not only associate globalisation with the relocation of companies, terrible working conditions and mass dismissals. on the contrary, it must be linked to more and better jobs, more opportunities and increased prosperity for all. we must offset the negative effects of globalisation and ensure that the positive aspects of globalisation are more equitably distributed. this is where the eu can play an important role. the eu must ensure that its citizens are able to compete in the international arena. the eu should not focus solely on the market economy and the free play of market forces. the eu must invest in people. the ability of all citizens to cope with global competition requires more and better education and an active labour market policy. lifelong learning and skills development are necessary if all citizens are to be able to cope in global competition. the second response to the challenges of globalisation is for the eu to increase and promote the use of social dialogue both within the eu and in the rest of the world. strong cooperation between the social partners can facilitate restructuring, and increased information can reduce fears of globalisation. in the rest of the world, social dialogue will mean improvements in labour market conditions. the eu also has a responsibility to promote social progress throughout the world. it is not only in the eu that globalisation must benefit citizens. in this connection i would also like to thank my colleague, poul nyrup rasmussen, who has done a good job with the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, so that the report also focuses on the external policies of the european union.
for the pse group. mr president, thank you for speaking and thank you to the court of auditors for a good annual report. one of the areas where the eu has the greatest image problem is precisely in relation to the question of how to manage the community's money. we know from numerous opinion polls that the people of europe do not have much confidence that their money - their taxpayers' money - is being managed properly. this distrust is partly justified and partly based on misunderstandings. i would like to thank the court of auditors for an annual report which helps us parliamentarians to achieve two objectives, namely, firstly, to eliminate misunderstandings and, secondly, to provide good advice and help us to solve the problems that actually exist. because there is trouble! as regards myths and misconceptions, anyone who actually takes the trouble to read the court's annual report will see that the scary images painted in the press and by the opponents of the european union here in parliament are not credible. you will see that it is all based on myths and it is based on misunderstandings - it is not as bad as the horror pictures that are often drawn. the annual report shows that there has been a great improvement, particularly in the agricultural sector, where we have now reached a level of sound management of some 60% of the funds. of course it's good. there is a lot of progress being made. that said, it must of course be stressed that just because improvements are being made in certain areas, we cannot live with the big picture. it's just not good enough. i agree with mr pomés ruiz, the previous speaker, who said that this was scandalous. and that brings me to the second task. the first task was to dispel myths. the second task is obviously more important. the second task is to find out how to solve these problems. and i agree with you that there is a clear picture. the areas where management is shared - that is, where the member states are equally responsible for managing - are where the problem lies. the member states are simply not living up to their responsibilities. the member states are not doing enough. i agree that we must continue to work on the recommendation made last year, which called for a so-called political declaration by the finance ministers of each country every single year. in the coming months we shall discuss the annual report in more detail. the discharge procedure will be carried out in the coming months. i can already see that the responsibility of the member states is one of the issues on which we must focus most.
mr president, the national and regional parliaments should now review the entire annual programme and carry out the checks under the subsidiarity and proportionality principles under the heading 'less and better'. we will work with fewer subjects and in return do better quality work. the eu should only adopt binding laws in crossborder areas where national parliaments cannot legislate effectively themselves. then the voters have nothing to lose, but everything to gain. then we can have co-determination instead of powerlessness. if, on the other hand, the eu gains power, where national parliaments can legislate themselves, we lose both influence and democracy. the committee on transport and tourism has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. the european committees should then give their opinion and meet in cosac to adopt the annual programme - preferably in such a way that we can see who has voted for what. the annual programme should then be respected and discussed in the european parliament and the council. only then will the commission be invited to draw up legislative proposals which will then have support from below and from above - instead of the current situation where the commission itself takes power and uses the monopoly of initiative and its 3000 secret working groups and access to the court of justice to centralize ever more power in brussels. there's nothing so bad that it's not good for something! fortunately, centralisation has led to voter defection, as we saw in the netherlands and france. nevertheless, the annual programme contains many elements of the rejected constitution. the negroes should be respected. everything from the constitution should be excluded. thank you, mr president - if there is anything else to be thanked for!
mr president, i would ask you to raise the question of the poor attendance today at the next meeting of the conference of presidents. i think we owe respect to the commission: all the commissioners who could be here are here. the poor attendance in this house is simply unacceptable and shows a lack of respect for the commission. i will certainly bring that up in my own group tonight. mr barroso, the problem is not what is in your programme. in the little time available to me, i should like to outline the problem in a number of major points. in your oral presentation today, you said: "il faut lier ces programmes à nos priorités politiques, améliorer la gouvernance économique de l'union et renforcer les efforts nationaux et européens pour la réforme et l'investissement", and ou continued "un investissement au niveau national mais aussi au niveau européen en vue de l'économie de demain, l'innovation, la connaissance et de nouvelles infrastructures. les deux types d'investissements doivent aller de pair". good. agreed. president of the commission, let us make a deal today in which you tell this parliament that, in the next weeks and months, you and your commission will formulate a strategy to ensure that, when we meet at the european employment council in spring, we have this message as a common approach from the european council. you, together with the economic affairs commissioner and the commission as a whole, will inspire the governments to make a deal, promising in the next two, three or four years to invest simultaneously and to be coordinated. i am not taking powers away from you. i merely want us to coordinate our investments so that we can use our economic interdependence proactively. in essence, my dream is the same as the commission’s: this wonderful europe could achieve further growth. yes, we should reform, but we need more investment, growth and jobs, and that demands coordination, so let us make a strategy together. i await your response.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is unacceptable that in our relatively enlightened age we allow a huge number of chemical substances into our environment without having registered them and without knowing their harmful effects. it is unacceptable that we do not have clear rules for the substitution of less dangerous substances for dangerous ones. we are in a situation where this parliament is divided and the whole complicated proposal that is reach could fall apart. i belong to a party which would like to see the position of the committee on the environment implemented as it was before the compromises now being made. we regret that there is no majority for the original proposals of the committee on the environment. but a compromise has been negotiated in a democratic way. i do not think that reach will be the last piece of legislation we will adopt in this area, because we are constantly learning about the need to protect the environment of the planet. but the proposal which now includes the large groups in parliament is a clear step forward and it is much better than the current lack of clear legislation and that is why i can support the compromise proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thousands of chemicals surround us in our daily lives. they're everywhere. they're in our clothes. they're in our cars. they're in this pen i'm holding. they're even in our children's toys. unfortunately, we know very little about the effects of these drugs. we don't know what harmful effects they have on our environment. we don't know what harmful effects they have on our health. there's finally a chance to make it right with reach. with reach, we're going to have the opportunity to get the basic data, and we're going to have the opportunity to have some principles that are going to be incredibly important. the most important principle for me is the inverse burden of proof, that is to say, the fact that in future we will require industry to prove that a substance is not dangerous if they are to be allowed to market it, and that it is not, as it is today, up to the authorities to prove that a substance is dangerous, in order perhaps to have it withdrawn from the market. the second and very important principle which we must put into practice is the principle of substitution. if there is a dangerous substance on the market and another, non-dangerous substance, a better alternative, it must be compulsory to replace the dangerous substance with the less dangerous substance. finally, i would say that those who think that there is a contradiction between competitiveness and a good, strict chemical legislation are wrong. on the contrary, the only hope for the future of the chemical industry is that reach will be precisely formulated, that reach will force the chemical industry to innovate, force it to invest in research and force it to invest in the parameters on which it will compete in the future.
member of the commission. the honourable member has identified one such type of european producer whose interests i have to take into account. it will clearly not be easy to find a balanced and equitable solution in this very complex situation and, frankly, the commission will need a fair amount of ingenuity and flexibility in order to lead this case to a solution acceptable for the member states and the economic operators. having said that, member states will soon receive a proposal from my services not to grant market economy treatment to the vietnamese exporters, since state interference, subsidies and other competitive distortions are still widespread. the commission has not yet assembled any results on china.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank mr mandelson for his advocacy of free trade and the business community that benefits from free trade. in this particular case, i would like to know why the anti-dumping investigation also covers sports footwear which has been exempted from regulation no 467/98 and, in general, has been exempted from all restrictions on imports for many years. it gives the impression that the commission is panicking at the pressure being exerted by forces within the eu which fear free competition. can the commissioner deny that this is the case?
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i understand that the high-level couples therapy at hampton court seemed to go well. but the therapy was also in the right romantic and exclusive environment, so you had every chance. now that all the heads of state are home from therapy, it's really time to see if the efforts of the therapist tony blair have borne fruit. because we all know that when marriages fall apart, you often fall back into the same bad habits. i therefore have a specific request to the presidency and the commission! in practice, there is very little that the eu countries can do together to initiate the necessary and much-needed reform process to modernise the european labour market to fit today's society. we all know that this necessary work must be carried out by the individual member states. the reform work is a national affair only. the eu can and must complete the work of creating a complete internal market for capital and services. while the partnership approach is still having an effect, i therefore call on the presidency and the commission to work towards ensuring full liberalisation of the european services and capital markets. if this succeeds, i am convinced that it will give rise to real labour market reforms, following the motto: 'there is no other alternative'. for citizens, the benefits of such a reform are enormous, and that is what eu cooperation is all about: providing added value for our fellow citizens. and now a very clear question for you, mr. straw! you mention the annual report of the court of auditors. are you prepared to set a good example and ensure that you and the united kingdom take responsibility for the administration of an eu grant in your country? unfortunately, your finance minister refused to do so last week. i want a clear answer from you. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am of course in agreement with both my own group and those who have argued against the commission's proposal, and i shall not repeat those arguments here. i have asked to speak just to remind you that animals living in the wild have, in almost every respect, a better life than animals kept in cages. we have seen horrific pictures from china of bears being kept in cages for their fur, but it is not just the bears that are affected. we have large fox farms in denmark, and whatever the trapping method, fox farms are not to be preferred - fox farms are pure animal cruelty. i think we must include the other animals in this discussion instead of ignoring this problem and only being interested in animal cruelty by trapping. i would like to stress that we must broaden our perspective to avoid legitimising the brutal treatment of animals on animal farms both in china and in denmark.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are three important reports we are debating here tonight. as the shadow rapporteur for the ppe group on the report on weapons of mass destruction, i think that the report has been good, solid and well balanced. it has become a very comprehensive report, but the subject is also very important. the rapporteur has done a fine job. in the present situation, where the threat is not from the cold war but from rogue states and terrorist organizations, it is of the utmost importance that controls be exercised over the possession of these weapons and that they do not fall into the wrong hands. we cannot and should not abolish nuclear weapons. nuclear weapons are part of nato's defence strategy and this is one of the reasons why the cold war remained cold. but we must constantly work to ensure that countries which are not allowed to have nuclear weapons abandon their development. i am thinking here of course in particular of iran and the problems surrounding north korea. we must also work to ensure that countries which do not legally possess nuclear weapons, namely pakistan, india and israel, become parties to the npt. there must be a coherence between means and ends. if the eu's strategy on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is to remain effective, it is necessary to give priority to the cfsp and in particular to give high priority to this very area in the future. i would like to conclude by welcoming the romeva report. i am particularly pleased that parliament is united in recommending that the arms embargo against china not be lifted. let us each work to ensure that this is also the attitude of the governments of our respective countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would simply ask that after the vote on all the amendments we have a five-minute break to find out what has been adopted and to decide whether we will vote for, against or abstain at the end.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. the focus has rightly been on poverty reduction in africa. in addition to the input we have received from the council on tony blair's commission for africa and the un summit, there are many good elements in the commission's proposal on poverty reduction, the environment and good governance. we have also noted that women and equality have been brought into the picture and that the importance of women as drivers of social development is emphasized. i must, however, use the short time available to me to highlight a problematic aspect of the proposal. it is an expression of an overly centralistic planning of eu aid to africa, using, among other things, donor atlases. as if we in europe could sit down and make plans for how aid should be coordinated in the individual african countries. this approach is in direct contradiction with the principles of aid effectiveness and good donor behaviour that the eu helped to adopt at the paris high-level meeting on aid effectiveness in march this year. african countries should be at the centre of the coordination of aid, based on their own poverty strategies. if we do not provide assistance in this way, we risk having a whole invasion of white elephants in africa, and that would be a step backwards to a very bad strategy. we must stand by what we have said so far. several of the amendments in the martens report take account of these centralistic measures by the commission, and i hope that parliament will ensure that the recipient countries - and not the commission - will continue to be at the centre of aid.
i have to say, madam president, there are two particular elements in the resolution of the four groups which i welcome. it is the commitment to multilateralism rather than to bilateralism with quotas and the like, where the developing countries always lose. secondly, the eu's obligations towards the developing countries. these are the two main starting points. secondly, i would like to thank mr harlem désir for his excellent amendments. the proposal to end agricultural aid to the islands quickly is particularly welcome. we in the eu must accept that it is the developing countries that still need support for their production and that it is we who must end the aid. agriculture, on the other hand, is the weak point of this resolution. there is no call for lower agricultural tariffs in the eu and there is no support for the latest offer from mr mandelson. finally, it is crucial that the irish agree to pay a higher price for a wto agreement than the developing countries. and china and brazil are also included among the developing countries. it is here that half the world's poorest people live, and it is not to say that these countries are not part of the poor world.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. the greens/efa group supports a more consistent application of eu competition rules. in the maritime transport sector, the situation is characterized by a few large companies that are scoring well, precisely because there are price agreements in this area. there is no free competition. it is a peculiarity of the european system and it is regrettable for sea transport, which could be a good alternative to air and road transport if there were more reasonable prices. if prices are to be regulated at all, it must be to benefit the environment or the workers. this is not the kind of price regulation we are talking about. here we find some of the richest people in the eu, including greek and danish ship owners. they are the ones who are getting the short end of the stick because of the lack of competition and the excessively high prices. we can hear it, and we can see who's doing it. the greens/efa group supports the commission, or rather the part of the commission which is present here, against dg transport, and we very much hope that the main amendments will be adopted. if amendments nos 3 and 12 are adopted, the greens/efa group can support the report. we can't do it without him!
mr president, i must insist that the commission give a full reply at the part-session in strasbourg. i thank the commissioner for his offer. unfortunately, he cannot give us his response today but we must have a clear response. i would like to say to the previous speaker that this is not a question of propaganda. what we are talking about here is slovakia, a new member state of the european union, which, under the copenhagen criteria, has exactly the same duties and rights as any other member. article 6(1) of the eu treaty provides for democratic rights and fundamental freedoms. in article 6(2), the european union guarantees rights under the european convention on human rights. in that convention, we talk about equal access to the legal system and equal treatment in court. a military court does not consist of independent judges: it is appointed by the government and is in contradiction to the fundamental values of the european treaty. i therefore ask the commissioner to answer two questions: first, are we right in saying that the police in slovakia do not have the same access to a fair treatment in court as any other citizens in slovakia? second, am i right in saying that every member state – including slovakia – should fulfil the copenhagen criteria and that the slovak government, in opposing a free trade union for the police, denying it the right to negotiate, to gather and to act, is acting in contravention of the copenhagen criteria? these are the two fundamental questions which i would like the commissioner to answer clearly. i do not doubt that slovakia and its government – in particular its government – have to respect these fundamental rights. that is why i fully agree with mrs beňová that this is a serious case and we need to have a serious and correct answer from the commission so that the slovakian people know that the european union is on their side.
mr president, i would just like to ask a formal question on procedure. from what i understood from commissioner kovács, the commission would be prepared to answer the question at the part-session in strasbourg in two weeks’ time. have i understood that correctly? it is important and it is urgent that we receive a reasonable, rapid answer. the people of slovakia really need a clear answer from the commission, so it is an urgent matter. i would just like to ask you whether we can expect such a timescale – after all, it is two weeks we are talking about.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, minister lewis, i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, headed by mr pittella, for the good result we have now achieved after the negotiations. i think it is good that we were able to achieve a result for the 2006 budget, even though there is no clarification of the financial perspective for 2007-13. it shows that the council and parliament were not so far apart on the 2006 budget after all, even though the negotiations were quite tough. my group does not therefore want to support the proposal to reject the 2006 budget in protest at the proposals contained in the financial perspective of the british presidency. we share the anger at the british presidency's proposal to cut aid to the poorest countries in the eu in order to give it to the rich countries, but that is a discussion we shall return to later. the liberal group is particularly pleased that it has succeeded in increasing the appropriations for training and research programmes, also beyond what has been agreed so far. we are pleased that we have received more money from the flexibility instrument to finance the reconstruction of iran and the post-tsunami, and as regards the level of payments in 2006, which was 1.01 per cent of gross national income, it will be the actual level in 2006 that will be decisive for the budget in the coming years if we do not reach an agreement on the financial perspective. because we can live with that. we must then adopt annual budgets with the treaty as the only framework and then we shall see how things go. my group wants financial forecasts, but not at any price.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, when the president of the commission promised us access to agendas and minutes of commission meetings in 1999, super central officials immediately set about constructing new agendas with fewer items and ultra-short minutes, while the real agendas and full minutes remained secret for some years. the prodi commission then promised us a full annual programme, with the legal basis for each of the proposals. the countries even agreed to allow the national parliaments to carry out a special subsidiarity check with the possibility of giving it a yellow card within six weeks, to be followed by a public debate on the annual programme in each parliament. the danish folketing went further and wanted to let each trade union committee carry out its own control - it was almost too good to be true, but then the competent commission centralists also came into the picture and made the programme illegible. no national parliaments can assess what is to happen next year. the legal basis has been removed, so that it is not clear whether the eu is planning an innocent decision or a binding regulation. the proposals are not arranged by subject as in budgets and legal texts. the european union has now invented chapters called prosperity, solidarity and security. all descriptions have been reviewed by an orwell's office of new languages, so that any future initiatives will benefit everyone without bothering anyone. every year between 2000 and 4000 draft laws are adopted, but the annual programme has only included 32 draft laws and 64 other proposals. 182 other legislative proposals and 295 other initiatives are also mentioned. why can we not see everything the commission intends to propose for the coming year? i would like to ask you, mr barosso, to give us a thorough and complete programme of work, arranged chapter by chapter, with the legal basis for each proposal. let's put it online and open up the discussion about what we cannot effectively adopt ourselves and therefore seek solutions in the eu or other international forums. that discussion is very concrete, but it can only be serious if it is based on the full and unvarnished annual programme.
in writing. the delegation supports minimum tax rates and a common consolidated tax base for companies operating in at least two countries. a common consolidated tax base and minimum corporate tax rates will make the internal market more efficient, while at the same time combating the trend towards tax competition that threatens our social models in europe. the delegation does not think that the home country taxation principle is a good idea, as it can distort competition between neighbouring countries with different tax rules.
the commission's vice-president madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr evans once again for the excellent work he has done and i also thank the committee on transport. the proposed amendments enhance the commission's objectives. they are a good way of emphasising the need to prevent discrimination against people with reduced mobility and to assist them when they travel by air, anywhere in europe. these amendments are intended to clarify the text, leading to a positive compromise for all, and i would also like to thank the council, mr minister, for allowing us to reach agreement at first reading. the commission accepts all the amendments to this compromise. it adds a statement, by which it is able to confirm its commitment to have the possibility of extending the compensation rights of passengers with reduced mobility studied if the wheelchair of the passenger concerned, the mobility equipment, was damaged, destroyed or lost during its transport. i thank parliament once again for its support and i must say that the text you are about to accept will affect practically more than 40 million people with reduced mobility in europe, a figure which emerges from the communication just published by my colleague mr vladimir špidla. that is what i meant, madam president, and i would add that it is up to the commission and the commissioner responsible for transport to ensure that this text is properly applied. i am also committed to this after the excellent work done by parliament and the council.
the commission is not madam president, commissioner, i have been very pleased to be rapporteur for this report. consumer protection and consumer policy in general are important issues and i am also glad that the european parliament is helping to put them high on the political agenda. much of the work currently being done in the eu is aimed at making the single market work more smoothly, both in terms of goods and services. when businesses produce, they ultimately do so for consumers, and it is therefore essential for competition in the internal market that consumers make demands on products and services. for this to happen, it is essential that consumers first of all know what requirements they can make of companies and that they are accustomed to behaving both sanely and critically when they make purchases. secondly, it is important that consumers have the right channels to make these demands. in this context, it is crucial that we look to the new member states. just as there are great differences between the old member states, so, of course, we cannot compare the ten new member states. there is no doubt, however, that there is a general tendency for what might be called consumer culture to be weaker in many of the new member states than in many of the old ones. consumers are often not very demanding in terms of the quality of the products and services they buy. and there is no, or perhaps only a limited, institutionalized practice of complaining about defects or problems in products or services. if we are to change this situation, it is absolutely essential that we try to strengthen the consumer culture. there's more places to put in. i think one of the most important things is to look at consumer organizations. in many of the old member states, independent consumer organisations play a central role in putting consumer issues on the political agenda and in assisting and representing consumers in disputes with businesses. unfortunately, consumer organisations are often very weak in the new member states and therefore rarely provide the necessary counterbalance to businesses and governments. a major problem in this context is the lack of financial resources for consumer organizations. only in some countries does the responsible ministry provide funds, and where funds are available, the amounts are often very small. in addition to government funding, eu funding for projects through the commission is also available. however, the conditions for winning a tender or receiving a grant from the commission are quite stringent and it is difficult for organisations, at least in a number of cases, to meet the commission's requirements. another problem is that the political influence of consumer organizations is often quite limited. there are several possible explanations. first, many organisations have difficulty securing adequate support from the public, both because of their weak economy and the relatively low awareness of consumer issues among the public. secondly, there are often few formal channels for ngos to influence policy-making. at the same time, the organisation of consumer organisations in the new member states varies considerably. often there are many, but smaller consumer organizations competing with each other instead of pulling the same hammer. it is very difficult for organisations to get their views across with sufficient force in the decision-making process and thus in the public debate. the fact that most of the staff in consumer organisations work as volunteers is also a problem. they are enthusiastic, but it is difficult to keep them going. these are problems which we must address if the internal market and consumer protection are to function optimally. the responsibility for solving these problems is not clearly placed in one place. the governments of the new member states have a responsibility to take consumer issues much more seriously than they do today, while providing the necessary support to consumer organisations. but it must be understood that a high level of consumer protection and an efficient market economy are not opposites but rather interdependent quantities. at the same time, the commission and the other member states of the eu have a responsibility to give political priority to these issues, especially in the new member states. a responsibility to take the lead and to ensure that consumers are more aware of their rights and role as consumers in the internal market. last but not least, consumer organisations in the new member states have a responsibility themselves. i hope therefore that we shall have a good debate on the report. i believe that we have good opportunities to strengthen consumer organizations in the new member states.
madam president, i would like to make three points. firstly, the sugar reform is really too weak. it is far from the scandalous imbalances in relations between the eu and the sugar-producing countries. secondly, the compensation to acp sugar farmers should be at the same level as that to the eu sugar producers in industry. the economic surpluses of the reform should easily pay for that. thirdly, it is completely contrary to the spirit of the treaty to allow developing countries to produce bioethanol in order to meet the challenge of the sugar reform. the dependence of the acp countries on europe will probably only worsen if they are now tied to the production of food for our cars instead of food for people. the consequences for global food production of such a strategy could be catastrophic.
mr president, on thursday and friday at the summit you, douglas alexander, and mr blair will be holding the fate of europe in your hands. we expect you to deliver a balanced result. we have indeed delivered here in parliament, both in terms of reach and data storage, which we are voting on today. so the eu does not act and act only when there are summits. six months ago your presidency presented a very visionary programme which emphasized future investment in research and development. it was a great performance, which aroused great enthusiasm among us members of parliament. but where are those promises today? i hope that blair comes out of sherwood woods at noon today as a real robin hood - not a fake robin hood - who gives to the poor and takes from the rich. the new proposal should also address the obsolete british rebate. we must show the necessary solidarity with the new member states. they deserve it, and it would also be in blair's interest to distance himself clearly from the voice of the past from mrs thatcher. if blair doesn't keep his promises from this summer, the presidency has played for broke. blair must and should show leadership so that the eu's increasingly tarnished image can be polished up. blair needs to show he's got the guts to invest in the future. yes, thanks to research and development, no, thanks to rebates and support for the professions of the past. that is why i call on the british presidency to find a sensible and balanced solution so that we can restore faith in europe. you got the ball.
in writing. the social democrats voted for block 1 in the budget vote, which involves strengthening key budget lines for research, development, etc. it must be stated, however, that the danish social democrats in the european parliament cannot support the eu's financial contribution to the proliferation of nuclear energy, either within or outside the community.
in writing. adm. 1: the left does not think that the destruction of food is appropriate, but the problem is production aid - not aid for destruction. the amendment deals with the effect of the problem but does not address its cause. adm. 2: the left wants to solve the problems of hunger in developing countries, but believes that this requires much more serious and coordinated action than this proposal. adm. 3: the left is against aid for the export of live animals, but the amendment will not solve this. the wording is also rather vague. adm. 6: the left supports a reform of travel allowances so that all reasonable and necessary travel costs are reimbursed. however, this has already been decided with the new member state. the amendment is also not practicable. the amendments tabled by mr jens peter bonde are, on the whole, ill-considered.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have voted in favour of the report because the establishment of accompanying measures for the sugar protocol countries is absolutely necessary. the danish social democrats in the european parliament, however, regret that the agreement on the 2006 budget, which has been reached between the budgetary authorities, does not allow for an increase in the aid to the sugar protocol countries, as the proposed level of aid must be considered insufficient.
