i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 december 2004.
ladies and gentlemen, as you know, a terrible tragedy has occurred since then. i ask that we collectively pay tribute to the victims, to the families of the victims of the tsunami in the indian ocean. i ask you to observe a moment of silence. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) ladies and gentlemen, before we start our agenda i would like to draw your attention to something which i think we are all fully aware of: the way in which we react will perhaps allow us to draw some positive consequences from this terrible disaster. in addition to the actions undertaken on an individual basis, we can do a great deal as a european parliament, from the european parliament. i should like to inform you that last week the president of the commission, mr barroso, called me to inform me of the developments and of his intention to propose at the jakarta summit the mobilisation of the resources provided for in our budget to deal with this kind of disasters. mr barroso stressed in jakarta the need for the european parliament, as one of the two arms of the budgetary authority, to approve the commission's proposals. i have sent a message on behalf of parliament to the jakarta summit, assuring it that this institution will do everything possible to ensure that the european union's contribution to the immediate relief of the consequences of this catastrophe is not delayed by the procedures laid down in our rules. i must inform you that the committee on budgets will decide tomorrow on the transfer of eur 100 million from the reserve for aid. parliament will also examine the proposals put forward by the commission to help with reconstruction as soon as we receive them. but i think that parliament must make it clear from now on that this is a new problem and that new resources are needed to deal with it. i mean, we can't dress one saint by stripping another. we cannot devote to mitigating the consequences of this catastrophe the resources we have already committed to earlier. last week i also asked president barroso to accept the inclusion of two members of our institution in the commission delegation to the donors' conference in geneva. the president of the commission has responded positively to our request and two of our members will therefore be part of this delegation; this will enable us to follow closely what is decided there and the debates which we will then have to carry out here. ladies and gentlemen, as i said in my message to jakarta, we need to formulate our commitments now, both for reconstruction and to help set up a preventive alert system, now that the eyes of the whole world are on this catastrophe.
the order of business is now being established. the final draft agenda for this part-session and for the partsession of 26 and 27 january, agreed by the conference of presidents at its last meeting on 6 january, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131. as regards tuesday: for the meeting tomorrow, i have received a request from the union for a europe of nations group to postpone the vote on the election of the ombudsman to a later part-session.
mr president, i do not think that parliament should accept this filibuster. the committee on petitions has followed a transparent process. the legal services of this house have pointed out that there is no legal problem. all the information about the candidates has been on the website, on their resumes. i think we should continue with a process which has been practically consensual in the committee on petitions and proceed to the vote. (applause) i would like to thank
if i have heard you correctly, you are calling for my withdrawal from office. i assume you are referring to the comments made in the polish press last week about the content of my speech in madrid at a debate on europe on 10 december. mr president, you, like all the polish members of this parliament, must have received a letter from me last friday in which i explain in great detail what really happened and what i said. this object i'm showing you is a videotape that contains the live recording of everything i said there. i am sure that tomorrow you will be able to receive a polish translation of what i have said, and you will be able to see that the note from the polish embassy in madrid is, in some eighty per cent of the cases, a pure and simple invention. i have asked the polish foreign minister for a public correction, because i did not say anything of what i was said to have said, and here is the proof. sometimes they refer to problems of interpretation or translation, but i do not need to refer to that, because the sentences attributed to me are simply not there: neither these nor any similar ones. but you do not have to believe me: you will be faced with the reality of this video transcript and its translation into polish. so if anyone has to resign, mr president, it is certainly not me, but perhaps someone from the polish embassy in madrid. (applause) and now let me tell you something: we have too many real problems to deal with in windmills; we have too many important things to deal with here to deal with imaginary problems that are just trying to sow weeds among us. i hope the transcript of the tape will give you complete satisfaction. thank you very much.
i'm sorry about what happened. parliament will, by urgent procedure, immediately contact the airport authorities.
your proposal deserves an answer. i shall answer a number of proposals in a general way. mr deva, you and other members have submitted to the presidency, which has submitted them to the conference of presidents, a number of proposals to encourage the generosity of members in their aid to the victims of this tragedy. it is not hidden from you or anyone else that we cannot go from encouraging a voluntary donation to a compulsory donation. we cannot do that: the budget lines are what they are and we are all of us of legal age and fully aware of what has happened to administer our solidarity. when the bureau meets, i will ask the committee on budgets to do something that can be more effective: to review parliament's budget for 2005 to see what room for manoeuvre there is and what commitments are not yet definitively made, so that the institution, acting as such and not making the decision on individual behaviour a burden, can review its budget and make available the resources we can find. the bureau will begin work on this and the committee on budgets will also do so.
i can't say anything different from what i've already said. all the chairmen of the political groups have received the same letter as i sent to the polish members. i have no objection to translating it into lithuanian, so that you can understand the content of my words. there are times when one has to take refuge in a misinterpretation, in a bad translation, to justify oneself. but in this case it is not necessary, because the absurd phrase attributed to me that poland and lithuania have not been united with the rest of the union on the issue of ukraine because they were under the influence of the united states, this phrase, which would certainly deserve criticism if it had been uttered by the president of parliament, neither this nor any similar one appears in the transcript of my words. that is why i say: i do not have to apologize, i expect the polish foreign ministry to do so. you will have the translation of my remarks in lithuanian and any member who wishes to receive them will also receive them in his own language. i fully agree with your view on the important role played by poland and lithuania and the logical concern they have with what is happening in ukraine.
madam member, the remarks you made using an unofficial language have not been interpreted and will therefore not be recorded in the minutes.
if you are referring to the long-standing subject on which several questions have already been asked, i can only repeat what i have already said, mr president.
mr president, you have the same answer as i have given to similar questions.
mr wynn, of course we will address the authorities of the city affected by this problem in the sense you have expressed.
you say you haven't received a reply from me. i have tried to reply in writing to all the proposals which have been received in writing and which have been submitted to the conference of presidents for consideration, and the latter has considered it appropriate to take the decisions i have mentioned.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the outcome of the 10th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, held in buenos aires.
mr president, i believe that the european commission has been the one that has fought the most and the one that has raised the world's awareness of the problem of climate change. but i also think that responsibility and the glory of having been the ones to raise this problem has to go along with a great scientific effort to ensure the veracity of the claims. we must move from a very declarative europe to a more efficient and more scientific europe. in this sense, i believe that, after the meetings that have taken place successively in kyoto and elsewhere, it is necessary, and i believe it is urgent, to develop comprehensive work on climate change. we've studied a lot of what's bad for you, but not what's good for you. in this connection, i would like to see one of the proposals of this parliament to be to look more closely at the relationship between agriculture and the environment. i include reforestation within agriculture. for example, if one hectare of orange trees produces 40,000 kilos a year or 4 tonnes of greenery and firewood, is this beneficial or not for climate change? what is mediterranean agriculture contributing to climate change, for example? this confrontation between agriculture and the environment must end, and one of the ways to do that is to see the benefits of agriculture in the co2 sinks it is creating, as well as to see which reforestation is the most appropriate and which is the best for the environment, and in this way to set up positive policies that serve to meet all activities, not only industrial, but also agricultural. i think we're way behind schedule there. for the same reason, if, as the latest report says, spain, greece and the mediterranean are the countries that will suffer the most from the impact of climate change, i believe it is the commission's responsibility to put studies and solutions on the table.
commission. mr president, very many useful suggestions have been made tonight. in the forthcoming spring european council, which will be the first important step in the european union's discussion on our future climate change strategy, the commission will make a communication, which my colleagues and i are currently preparing. this communication will be very important for the spring council discussions. in this communication, i expect to set a series of specific recommendations and will include quite a few of the suggestions that have been made tonight. i thank those members who made those constructive suggestions. as regards buenos aires, the degree of its success can be measured by objective criteria and, as i said, our objective expectations were not great, but this does not mean that we do not have high targets and that our wishes are not ambitious. we shall work towards those targets because this is what the world needs. we made some progress in buenos aires. the decision to hold a seminar in may to discuss current and new responses to climate change provides a promising opening to the dialogue and the debate for a global climate policy after 2012. the agreement to establish a work programme for adaptation is also a very important breakthrough, not only for the developed countries but also, and even more so, for the developing countries. overall i think we had a successful conference of the parties. however, i agree that we need to strengthen our dialogue with key countries such as india, china, the united states of course, and russia. the united states says it is following a different approach, investing a lot in research and development, but i saw a small breakthrough in its agreement to participate in this seminar and to have presentations about the future. we need to continue and strengthen our dialogue – as was suggested by many honourable members – with these countries, both in the multilateral and bilateral contexts. as mrs frassoni mentioned, with the troika, we are going to have quite a few meetings with countries such as the united states, china, india and developing countries. we also need to continue to show that we are serious about it and that we are taking the fight against climate change seriously. we should lead by example, as mrs corbey suggested. the european union trading scheme and its success will be very important in this regard and we need to continue to emphasise the need for others to join us in these efforts. as i mentioned previously, norway, canada and japan have shown interest and we should see how we can cooperate with the united states which – except the nine north-eastern states and california – have trading systems for other greenhouse gases, but not for carbon dioxide. but the problem there is that they have not signed the kyoto protocol. let us see how we overcome this obstacle. cooperation with local and regional authorities could be very interesting, especially to get support for fighting climate change in countries around the world, and in terms of our contacts with developing countries, such as india and china – and here i must acknowledge, as someone has already said, that the small island states were our allies. it is also very important that they fully support us in what we are trying to do. in our contacts with these countries, it is important to place the benefits of addressing climate change in the broader context of sustainable development. on local air pollution, mr blokland suggested that we stress the benefits in other sectors, and addressing climate change will bring important benefits to these countries. it is very important to stress the eco-innovation and environmental technologies which could be very competitive and could give the benefit of first-mover advantage to european industry and to the industries of those countries, so that they really innovate in an environmentally friendly way. it was suggested that we did not help the least-developed countries as much as we could. i must stress that almost half of the funds for these countries are provided by the european union. the united states is not participating at all, because it considers that to be part of the kyoto protocol. we have to finance projects, that is to say planned projects, not one-off, isolated projects which are ineffective. there were so many questions, so i will answer certain very ones. mr blokland asked whether the chemical industry would be included in the eu emissions trading directive. that is not possible at present. however, we are holding discussions on what will happen after the end of the first phase of emissions trading. we shall probably include it. the combustion used in chemical plants is included. mr davies asked about the uk and the national allocation plan. the decision regarding the uk plan was taken on 7 july 2004, and the uk can avoid prolonging uncertainty for uk companies by proceeding on the basis of that decision. it sent us a letter dated 23 december providing certain information regarding the two questions of gibraltar and new entrants and also asking us for additional, higher amounts of allocations. we are still looking at the technical and legal details of this. in principle, the commission considers that a member state can only present a single national allocation plan. regarding biomass and biofuels, we have a number of instruments already in place to stimulate the use of biomass. this includes a biofuels directive and a directive on electricity from renewable energy sources. last year's commission communication on renewable energy announced a biomass action plan, which should be submitted by the end of 2005. biomass emissions are neutral. there are no allowances for emissions caused by the consumption of biomass. in the time allotted to me, i am unable to answer all the questions and the suggestions that i have noted down during the debate. however, i must stress again how important it is to include in the cooperation developing countries such as china and india. they are worried about their future and very concerned about any limitations or reductions. we have to give them incentives so that they will know that their development will not be hindered by any future agreement. we have to find a way to cooperate and reach the targets that we mentioned before: a maximum of a 2c increase in temperature. with regard to the united states, it is investing a great deal in research. even there – i have heard certain people say that there are questions about the scientific proof of the anthropogenic causes of climate change and its impact – there are very recent reports, published in 2004, proving beyond doubt that climate change is caused by human activity. in the united states they say that their approach is different. they have not and are not going to sign the kyoto protocol. however, we have to find a way to include them in our endeavour to fight climate change. it is not a problem for one country alone or merely for the mediterranean, where the effects will be worse than for other areas of the world: scientists say that the temperature there, by the end of 2100, will have increased by more than five degrees. that is a large increase. one can imagine how this will affect agriculture and tourism, for example, and have an impact on the way in which people live. i heard that there will be positive effects in siberia. that is not true. we do not know what impact climate change will have, nor what areas of the world it will affect. science has proven that climate change caused by human activity should be fought against. that is what we should do and will attempt to do. with your cooperation, the european union will continue to play a leading role in the fight against climate change. (applause)
the rapporteur. mr president, in the european union parlance, the directive we are discussing today is called the 'fifth motor insurance directive'. it is a directive which amends five other directives, namely four council directives and one european parliament and council directive. the car insurance sector has become a very important sector from an economic and social point of view, as a result of the impact of the car on our lives. from the economic point of view, it is because of the importance of insurance companies and, from the point of view of citizens, because of the possible consequences. in general, it is a sector in which there has been considerable state intervention, with the creation of minimum compulsory services to which everyone must subscribe and with state compensation for cases where insurance coverage is not provided. the commission presented the proposal on 7 june 2002. it was discussed in this parliament under the rapporteur, mr rothley - who is no longer a member of this house - and after parliament's approval at first reading in 2003, the commission and the council made an amendment which led to a common position of the council which at this stage is quite close to the amendments proposed by parliament at first reading. we are now at the second reading. in particular, the committee on the internal market adopted a text at second reading on 14 december, and we hope that a final vote on the text will be taken on wednesday. there are still differences between parliament's position and the council's common position on certain points. first of all, with regard to trailers: what do we do with these vehicles which may or may not be identified with the main vehicle? this is also a sector in which vehicles which were previously not insurable could become so, which would have a number of legal and economic consequences. secondly, as regards legal costs, parliament wants them to be included in the payment of compensation to victims. thirdly, as regards the amount of compensation, i think that at the moment we are discussing the wording rather than a dispute over the amount itself, so that parliament's proposal cannot be interpreted as a limitation on the amount, but on the contrary, the principle of compensation. fourth, there is direct action against the insurer. parliament wants the insured, the victim, to be able to sue the insurer in the courts of his own domicile, without having to go to the insurer's domicile. and fifthly, we have the issue of the importation of vehicles, where parliament is trying to impose the state of destination of the vehicle as the competent state for the insurance of imported vehicles and not the state of the place of dispatch. i think that when this debate is over parliament will have an idea of the situation. we are very interested in hearing from the commission representative to see to what extent parliament maintains these amendments or accepts any other compromise which might bring us closer to an agreement. the rapporteur hopes, in any event, that parliament and the council will soon agree to adopt the directive, which would avoid us having to go through a long formal codecision process and would allow us to solve this problem in a very short time through an informal codecision process.
commission. the proposal for a regulation on sales promotions that was strongly supported by this house two years ago is a key internal market initiative linked to the achievement of a smooth-running internal market for services. i am therefore pleased to see that parliament has maintained its interest in this text in spite of the fact that the council is still considering it. sales promotions are key tools to market goods and services. they cover discounts of all forms: premium offers, free gifts, promotional contests and promotional games. they are a tool for entering into new markets with innovative products or services, for encouraging customer loyalty, for stimulating competitive actions, or for efficiently managing stocks, to name just a few areas in which sales promotions are crucial. their design, execution and communication accounts for a large number of jobs in the eu, with investments representing billions of euro. sales promotions are essential to the development of cross-border trade in products and services within the internal market. this is particularly true for small- and medium-sized enterprises in their development of new markets. yet the free movement of goods and services is seriously hindered due to a myriad of different national rules governing sales promotions. i wish to assure you that the commission has made its best efforts to assist the successive presidencies-in-office of the council to achieve a political agreement. in particular, the commission has shown great flexibility in terms of the two key remaining issues, which are the choice of the legal instrument and the inclusion of a mutual recognition clause in the text. as regards the implications of the lisbon strategy, it is clear that if the current position were not to alter, then this impasse would suggest that the council would be unable to achieve the internal market commitments it has set itself in that context. however, the commission does not believe that the negotiations on this text are over. the alternative to harmonisation will be court rulings that would lift the identified disproportionate restrictions, but this will not harmonise provisions that achieve a high level of consumer protection, including the protection of minors. the commission trusts that the council will not find this a satisfactory proposition. the commission will therefore continue work with the incoming presidency with a view to finding a solution that brings about a genuine single market for sales promotions.
the next item is the report (a6-0070/2004) by mr richard corbett and mr íñigo méndez de vigo, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe 2004/2129 (ini).
the rapporteur. mr president, when my group gave me the honour of speaking at the last plenary session of the last parliament at an event we organised in this house to honour monnet, schuman and spinelli, i wondered what the founding fathers, the visionaries of europe, would have thought of the moment we were in in the process of european construction and what they would have thought of the european constitution. i think - i said it then and i repeat it today - that they would not believe that the moment we are living in is real, because, leaving behind a europe divided by fratricidal struggles, this constitution sanctions peace on our continent and, to use a beautiful expression of mr geremek, this constitution sews the two europes together. we are moving from a europe that was ravaged by totalitarian regimes to a europe - and this constitution sanctions this - based on democratic regimes where fundamental rights are respected. after a europe of ration cards, this constitution sanctions a europe of prosperity and material well-being. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe. this constitution will have and does have the means to make europe count more in the world. i believe that the constitution marks a point of no return and, just as in not too distant times the constitution of my country was the constitution of concord, the one that allowed us to move forward into the future, this european constitution will allow all of us europeans to move forward together in a common project of civilization. the value of the european constitution is to banish ambiguities; it is the first document that defines what the european union is as a union of states and citizens, and it does not weaken the states in the least, because the powers of the union are the powers that come from the states, and it does not weaken the national constitutions, on the contrary: it strengthens them, because the strength of the european constitution derives from the strength of the national constitutions. with this constitution, europe shows that it is much more than a market; it is also, and it is important, but it is much more: it is a project of common civilization based on the religious, cultural and humanist heritage. it is recognised in the first sentence of the preamble, rooted in the values of freedom and human dignity, rooted in the charter of fundamental rights of the person. it is a constitution which also advocates a particular economic system: a capitalist system with a social dimension. if we look at the history of europe, we see that, that was not so obvious fifty years ago. today it is. for all these reasons, mr president, i believe that many of the flags that this parliament has unfurled over the past few years are as high today as those we have back there. i entered this parliament 13 years ago when it was a consultative assembly; it is no longer a consultative assembly. i entered this parliament when the democratic deficit of the european union was being discussed; i believe that with the european constitution we will put an end to the term democratic deficit, because this constitution introduces more democracy, more efficiency, more clarity and more transparency, as my friend richard corbett has very well pointed out. mr president, that is a task for many people over many years. i want to remember them here today. i would like to mention the names of emilio colombo, marcelino oreja, fernand herman, giorgio napolitano, olivier duhamel, antonio seguro, dimitris tsatsos, antoinette spaak, and so many others who, sitting on the benches of this parliament, have defended what is going to be a reality today. they have often been called utopians or dreamers; well, today those dreams, those utopias, are becoming reality. we in this parliament can be very proud of the work we have done. mr president, eight years ago, in this very room, a young member defended the opinion on the amsterdam treaty and said that it was not perfect, we knew that, but it was not the last station, and he recalled, as i shall recall today, a certain miguel de cervantes, disillusioned with life in his last days, who said that there were times when you had to choose between being a road or an inn. that was a path, and that path has led us to where we are today, and i believe that today, in the comfortable inn of the european constitution, europeans will find in the coming years an effective instrument for making europe progress in peace, freedom, justice and solidarity. that is why i would like this parliament to vote very strongly in favour of this document tomorrow, which opens up a new era for our continent. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank mr schmit for his presence and express our sympathy to him and to the people of luxembourg, who are in a state of national mourning following the death of the former grand duchess.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, the committee on development of the european parliament expressed its strong support for the constitutional text, considering that it represents historic progress precisely because it assumes, as defining features of the european union, solidarity with those who need it most, development cooperation and responsibility for humanitarian intervention wherever it is required. the committee on development calls for action to ensure that the constitution is ratified and comes into force as soon as possible, and for the involvement of those institutions, ngos and individuals who have made north-south solidarity a fundamental cause of our political activism and social commitment in europe. let us remember that the constitution elevates these values of solidarity, cooperation and humanitarian responsibility to the status of the european union's hallmark, and that they must therefore transcend all policies and guide all community action. the constitution also assumes that the european union will henceforth have the legal personality that we lacked and that will enable it to act as such on the international stage and, more precisely, in the universe of the united nations. we shall thus be making a considerable advance in terms of representativeness, responsibility, effectiveness and potential, which is particularly important for the presence and work of the european union in the third world countries and in the field of cooperation for their development. let us not forget that the eradication of poverty in the world is explicitly included as one of the constitutional objectives of the european union. the european union has a duty to help the victims of the conflict in the region, and the european union has a duty to help the victims of the conflict in the region.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, for those of us who are working to ensure that the union's financial resources are well spent, this is a good day: all spending will be subject to greater democratic control by parliament and the council, and it will also increase the efficiency of spending, because it increases governance: we are changing vetoes for democracy. that means that we will be able to spend better; and that if the resources given to us by the citizens are spent better, we will have more authority to ask for more resources to develop the policies that the citizens demand from the european union. it is therefore a great day, a day to say a happy 'yes', in these days when we are putting an end to the european project after fifty years with this constitution. there are many advances in this constitution, but as our group chairman, mr poettering, rightly said, there are some things missing. we've been timid in acknowledging our christian roots, we've been timid in acknowledging the obvious. we have just celebrated christmas; this parliament will be sitting in holy week; here in strasbourg the most important building is not a building like this, but a medieval building, a cathedral. we may have been victims of a certain intolerant secularism, but christmas, holy week, strasbourg cathedral will remain, and there are many areas where we have been able to improve. we must therefore say 'yes', because we believe in europe and we are aware that this european project is going to solve the everyday problems of the citizens. we will do it in the best way possible: by spending better, by controlling our expenditure better and by having more democratic and effective policies. our group and i personally say yes to the constitution.
opinion of the committee on regional development i would like to begin, mr president, by congratulating the rapporteurs on their excellent work. i had the honour of being the rapporteur on this report in the committee on regional development and i would like to say that the debate on this subject was very positive and intense, because, among other things, it is necessary to recall the fundamental role of regional and local authorities in the construction of europe. it is also essential to remember that the european constitution recognises local and regional autonomy as an integral part of the national identity of the member states. this means, among other things, that the european constitution guarantees the inviolability of the present borders of the states which make up the present european union. but today, speaking of the constitution and the regions, i also want to denounce the fact that in a region of europe, in a spanish region like the basque country, the nationalist government, which excludes the autonomous community, wants to put in place a plan of rupture, secession and independence, such as the ibarretxe plan, which is a frontal attack on the spanish constitution and the european constitution. because ibarretxe and his government, who call themselves democrats, have made a pact with the murderers of eta and batasuna to carry out this plan; they have made a pact with an organization which is on the european union's list of terrorists, such as batasuna, and the pnv is making a pact and is allying itself with the executioners, with the murderers: in short, with the enemies of europe. i am convinced that this european constitution will also help to put an end to separatist, rupturist and secessionist approaches such as those of the ibarretxe plan, and i am sure that the new european constitution will be an impassable wall to that ibarretxe plan and to all that seeks to dismember the european union.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak in support of the corbett-mendez de vigo report, which is the culmination of a historic process, on behalf of myself and the spanish socialists. there have been two constituent debates in the european union. the first was the debate at the congress of the european movement in 1948, where churchill, reynaud, ramadier, van zeeland, madariaga and adenauer had the opportunity to begin debating a constitution for europe. the second is the one we are concluding today, which has changed the history of a continent where more than a hundred million people died violently between 1914 and 1945 and where, in the present reality, peace is the rule, thanks to a process to which we are giving its true dimension with this constitution, in which fundamental, shared values are expressed, enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, with a common citizenship and a union based on citizens and states: a secular union and a union with ambitious objectives that have already been mentioned here. mr president, let me refer to my country, which is the first to hold a referendum on ratification of the constitution, with a public and open debate which we believe is important for everyone. it is true that the zapatero government, by winning the elections on 14 march, unblocked the process of adopting the constitution, but i want to say here - and i do not see any member of the spanish popular party, so i ask the vice-president of the commission, mrs grossetête, to convey this to her on my behalf - that the convention began with a presidency of the spanish council of government by mr aznar, and it was he who called for the referendum. i therefore believe and hope that the spanish people's party will also give decisive support to this whole process - the epp's support is guaranteed. i believe that this will enable us to have a referendum which will really set a positive pace for other referendums in the other states which have called them and that there will be a real public and open debate. i would like to conclude by saying that this is the culmination of a process in which europe has been built with passion and with reason, and that has led it to change history.
mr president, any position on the european constitution must be based on a balance between what this constitution says and what it does not say – something that is not perhaps properly underlined in the report we are voting on at this part-session. this leads me to say 'yes' to this constitution because of what it represents and because it means a new step forward on the way to a stronger and more efficient, more transparent, more democratic europe. with this constitution, europe will have a stronger voice in the world. citizens will get better protection of their fundamental rights. their freedom and security will be better defended. moreover, our values, including those which are behind our social and economic model, will be strongly proclaimed and protected to allow europe's growth and, simultaneously, to protect europe's social cohesion. but that does not prevent me from acknowledging that the text reflects the unfortunate bias of some political majorities that existed in europe at the time when it was drafted. i particularly regret that it reflects a virtual europe, a europe that is not the real europe, a europe that does not exist in political terms, where everything that lies between individual citizens and states is just ignored. peoples in europe, regions, and their political role in the construction of a diverse and plural europe have simply been neglected, have been passed over in silence in this text. but this is just not the reality of the europe we are all building here together. what is worse, some languages, such as my own – catalan – which are stronger than acknowledged officially at european union level, are blindly ignored in this constitution. some of these problems can be solved outside the constitution, and some of us will keep fighting for that. i will therefore join those who support this positive step forward in the building of europe and i will strongly recommend a 'yes' in the spanish referendum, although i will fully comprehend and respect any other position taking a different view of this balance. i will not take this text as something engraved in stone, but as an improvement that allows us to keep working for a europe where all citizens and peoples can feel comfortable, and are acknowledged as they really are and want to be.
mr president, the european greens are in favour of a 'yes' vote in the forthcoming referendum on the european constitution in spain. we have a great responsibility in holding the first referendum on the whole continent, and a result of strong public support for the constitution in spain will send a clear and strong message to the rest of the european countries and will give a push to continue building the europe we want after ratification. this yes of ours is a demanding yes. we are concerned and perplexed by the position of the people's party. i ask: where are all those people now who said they wanted to die for nice, like mr aznar? i see that they are still alive and kicking and that they are now creating confusion, double talk and alarm about the forthcoming referendum in spain, putting narrow and partisan interests ahead of european construction. this double language, together with the attitude of complacency, of complacent language, towards the constitution, and the confusion of people with other issues that have little to do with the constitution, do very little to help the construction of europe. some people ask for the yes with a small mouth and give confused and contrary messages to their own electorate, seeking only to erode the current government of spain. the demanding 'yes' that we greens are defending is to choose to make constructive use of the new european political space in favour of the social and ecological europe we want. the constitution is not the end of the road, it is not the final destination, it is not even the inn. we think that, as antonio machado said, we make our way by walking; we believe that this constitution is a step forward and we will continue on the path in the future.
mr president, for the catalan republican left – the esquerra republicana de catalunya – and for the other parties in our european coalition – for example from the basque country, aragon and andalusia – this is not a good constitutional treaty. it does not recognise our wish for internal enlargement. stateless nations will not have any recognition in this treaty. we would have accepted the treaty if only it had included a small step forward – official-language status for the catalan language. today, in parliament, about 2% of members may not speak their mother tongue. of this 2%, the vast majority of us are catalan speakers. i am the fourth catalan-speaking member – after president borrell, mr guardans cambó and mr hammerstein mintz – to speak here this morning in a language other than our own – et c'est la réalité, madame grossetête! we reject this constitutional treaty because we want to be directly involved in europe and want a stronger, more united and cohesive europe, built on its own diversity; just the opposite of a nation-state built on the basis of the french model and against plurilingualism, diversity and plurinationality. working nation-states do not make a good basis for the construction of europe. europe should be built on the basis of national diversity comprising stateless nations, nation-states and constitutional regions, for the purpose of establishing a new european citizenship.
mr president, any community in which the separation of powers is not stipulated and the security of rights is not guaranteed needs a constitution. the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen of 1789 said so. we have wanted to follow the path that led to the freedom of peoples and nations more than two centuries ago, and that is why, with this european constitution, we are going to have a bigger and better europe. it is thanks above all to the efforts of the convention and, finally, to the agreement of the intergovernmental conference that we will have a constitution which will mean a legal refoundation and above all a political relaunch of the union, so that it will be in a position to respond to the three great challenges of the 21st century: to intervene in globalisation in order to democratise it, to contribute to the construction of a fair and democratic international order and, of course, to respond to the demands of the people. with this constitution we are regaining the momentum of the maastricht treaty, we are overcoming the failure of the treaty of nice and we are putting enlargement and deepening on the same level, in real time. the european union will have more legitimacy, more values, more rights, more democracy and greater effectiveness in the common foreign and security policy, in the european security and defence policy, in the area of freedom, security and justice and also in social europe. i would like to stress here the support of the european trade union confederation for the european constitution, which i consider to be truly fundamental and important. the constitution must be improved and, of course, implemented and developed in an ambitious manner in due course. there is no perfect constitution, but no constitution that does not come into force can be improved. that is why we must get it ratified in time and form, correctly. and all of that will be done with enough majorities to keep moving forward. this is a citizen's constitution and should be understood as such. in spain, on 20 february, we have a referendum date with two good friends: the constitution and europe. we're not missing the appointment.
mr president, as this report very well shows, the draft constitution has three basic aspects: firstly, the values and objectives of the union, the unity and equality of its peoples, and the protection of the diversity of its cultures, identities and languages; secondly, the rights, interests and duties of citizens; and thirdly, rules for the institutions and for the european political game. the first two aspects - values and rights - define the european democracy we want, based on the diversity and freedom of peoples, their progress and equality. the third aspect - and this must be clear: the rules of the game - is the result of compromises between the right and the left, between federalists and intergovernmentalists; it must be clear that it refers to these rules, not to the policies that must be developed. in this sense, the constitution is not an endpoint but a starting point for overcoming europe's economic and social weakness, its weak capacity for innovation, research and development and its insufficient international weight. we must move towards a european government, overcoming the currently dominant method of intergovernmental coordination and its impotence, as shown by the failure to implement the lisbon strategy or the divisions in the face of the invasion of iraq. with this prospect of future progress we will call for a vote in favour of the european constitution.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work and express my full support for the report we are debating today. tomorrow we will be voting in this house on the text which brings to a close a constituent process which has been open for several decades. now, our work cannot stop here. the most difficult challenge is still to be met: the approval and ratification of the treaty by the european citizens. without their backing, the constitution is meaningless. as you are well aware, spaniards have a particular responsibility in this process, since the first european citizenship test will be held in my country on 20 february. we all have a responsibility to explain the constitutional text to european citizens, which in my case includes spaniards living outside spain and even outside the borders of the union. i am therefore pleased that in my country the majority of political parties, trade unions and other representatives of civil society are joining us and are fully involved in this task of spreading the content and scope of the magna carta, the only way to ensure a high level of participation and a positive response to this historic event.
mr president, if i had to define the spirit of the constitutional treaty, i would say, first, that it is integrative; second, that it is based on free accession; third, that it is respectful of the various identities, cultures, languages and institutional structures and that it creates a european citizenship which does not deny, but coexists with, the other citizenships of the member states which make it up. in the basque country, our parliament has just approved by an absolute majority a new statute for coexistence with the spanish state which is inspired by the community model, upholds the same principles as those i have mentioned and respects the constitutional treaty. however, in this morning's debate one member called it an attack on the european constitution and said that the basque president and the basque nationalist party had allied themselves with the enemies of europe. this is absolutely false. we will support the 'yes' and defend the 'yes' to the treaty on a european constitution in the next referendum. and we want to be able to live together in peace and friendship with the other peoples of the spanish state, on the basis of mutual respect for their respective identities and languages, free membership and working together in a united europe. the basques have been involved in the construction of europe from the beginning, we want to be more european and we are working for a common future with all europeans under the new constitutional treaty.
the commission, madam president! i'm also allowed to say that this is my first question and answer session, but i'm looking forward to it. it's always good to be able to go into detail. i speak english now.
madam president, first of all i would like to welcome the commissioner, mrs ferrero, who, in addition to her spanish surname, is fluent in spanish and knows latin america. your answer has satisfied me. that is what i wanted to know about the commission's support for education programmes and, in particular, for the instrument to which i referred in my question, which is the ibero-american summit of heads of state and government, which comprises the spanish and portuguese-speaking countries of latin america plus spain and portugal. i thank you again, commissioner. we shall have occasion to discuss these matters further in the future.
vice-president of the commission. according to article 34 of the treaty on european union, framework decisions are binding upon the member states as to the result to be achieved but leave to the national authorities the choice of form and methods. however, framework decisions 'shall not entail direct effect'. whereas, within the first pillar, the commission has the authority to initiate an infringement procedure against a member state, this possibility does not exist within the treaty on european union. the situation described by the honourable member certainly does not facilitate the commission's role, but it does not prevent it from producing a broad range of policy initiatives, which have been the basis for the policy definition of the union in the important area of the fight against terrorism. the commission has been playing this role very actively in establishing in june 2004 the revised action plan on combating terrorism, in updating it in december 2004 and in implementing more than half of the respective measures. this is also evident from the submission, in october 2004, of four communications covering different aspects of the prevention, preparedness and response to terrorist attacks and from the adoption, in the same year, of a communication on mutual access to data relevant to the fight against terrorism and of several classified documents in the field of consequence management and the protection of critical infrastructures. the commission in general and president barroso and i in particular are determined to work in close cooperation with council presidencies to maintain the fight against terrorism. this is very high on the agenda of the council, including that of the jha council and the european council comprising the heads of state and government.
i am well aware of the legal framework within which european counter-terrorism policy can operate as far as the commission is concerned, and you have described it very well. but if we don't want to be a collective hypocrite, we have to call things by their right names. the name is that they have big conferences, where all the heads of government are, then they have the press conference, they present a decision, after this decision nothing happens. the commission itself admitted this on 8 june 2004. so the question is: what will the commission do politically to put this into practice?
i do not know exactly whether it is a question of order, but in any case i can answer that the bureau has already dealt with this matter, that it has been forwarded to the legal services, and we are awaiting their report to act accordingly.
the next item is the council statement on the programme of the luxembourg presidency. the president-in-office of the council, mr juncker, prime minister of luxembourg, has the floor. i would like to reiterate the sadness with which parliament has learned of the death of her royal highness, grand duchess josephine charlotte of luxembourg, princess of belgium.
counsel. mr president, mr president of the commission, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i always take great pleasure in visiting strasbourg, the european city par excellence, the symbol of franco-german reconciliation, the meeting place of so many european ambitions, the intersection of so many continental dreams. today, in addition to the pleasure, i have the honour of presenting to the european parliament, the elected representatives of the peoples of europe, the priorities of the luxembourg presidency of the european union. the luxembourg presidency follows that of our dutch friends. i would like to pay tribute to their work, their tenacity, their undeniable successes. the european union has made important progress under the dutch presidency. when it is over, i would like to be able to say the same about the eleventh luxembourg presidency, which has just begun a few days ago. the experience of our previous presidencies may be useful and valuable, but the presidencies follow one another and are not alike. when i first took over the presidency of the council of ministers in 1985, the european communities had ten member states. when i was president in 1991, there were 12 ministers around the table. when i took up the presidency in 1997, there were 15 of us, and today there are 25 member states. in 20 years, the number of member states has more than doubled. the decision-making technique has obviously become more complicated since then. but what a joy, what a blessing to see the european union today include among its members the countries of central and eastern europe which a disastrous decree of history wanted to keep away from us forever! the experience of our respective presidencies and the observation of the successive presidencies of the others have taught me two lessons. the european union, first of all, can only really move forward if those who preside over it do not put their national interests at the centre of their concerns but replace them with the common interest, which is the best definition of the interest of all. the european union will only find its true coherence, indeed its harmony, if we all respect, in spirit and in letter, the community method and the triangular institutional balance. the commission is not a judge on the sidelines who only ensures that the rules of the internal market are respected. she must be the leader, the inspirer, the driving force. the council is not the playground of national interests alone, however justified they may be, but a forum for consensus. parliament, on the other hand, has no place in the stands, it is not a spectator. it is a privileged actor because it is legitimized by universal suffrage. you will therefore often see me in your meetings, in your offices, in your halls in brussels and strasbourg. i say this for myself, i say this for my ministers, i say this for all those who serve this parliament and therefore for yours. we must work together to ensure that the new constitutional treaty is ratified under good conditions. the draft constitution is not perfect, of course. but let's not compare it to the ideal. let us judge it by what europe will need to do to remain an example to the world tomorrow. let us do today what must be done so that it can be done tomorrow, and let us ratify the treaty. let us remember that the treaty is a container, a container which is neither left nor right. the content of it will be the fruit of our convictions, our will, our ambition. if our will and our ambition are perfect, the application of the new treaty, perhaps imperfect in theory, will probably be perfectly successful in practice. ratification of the treaty will not be easy everywhere, and i have a major concern in this context: let us not use the difficulties that parliamentary and referendum ratification may pose as a pretext to reduce our pace of action and our momentum for decision. let us not postpone the most difficult decisions until the day after the first referendum, then the day after the second referendum, then the day after the third referendum, and so on. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. the european union's vigorous action can overwhelm the convictions of those who doubt, its inaction can make those who do not doubt doubt. mr president, the usual solemnity of the inauguration of the new presidency was overshadowed this year by the terrible tragedy of the tsunami in south-east asia. the horribly shocking images of death, injury and destruction cast a huge shadow over the end of 2004 and the beginning of 2005. we will remember this tragedy for a long time and i would like to see us extending our solidarity beyond immediate emergency aid to the people who have been struck and to the devastated regions of asia. i would also like to see a greater awareness that the misery we see in asia today must not be allowed to overshadow poverty, underdevelopment, hunger and unjust death elsewhere. our hearts must be where the television cameras are no longer or have never been. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, the european security strategy calls on us to promote peace, democracy and stability by tackling the root causes of insecurity in the world. the coherent and integrated use of all the union's instruments will be particularly necessary in the western balkans, the middle east, in our relations with russia and ukraine and in transatlantic relations. the future of the balkans, a region still traumatised by its recent past, must be seen in the european perspective. the opening of accession negotiations with croatia in march 2005, once full cooperation with the icty has been confirmed, will demonstrate to all the balkan countries that their efforts to democratise will be rewarded and can bear fruit. for the other countries in the region, the general framework for eu action will remain the thessaloniki agenda, which outlines the european perspective for the western balkan countries. the presidency will continue negotiations with albania on a stabilisation and association agreement. another key event in the region in mid-2005 was the review of the implementation of standards policy in kosovo. we will pay particular attention to developments in kosovo. i believe that whatever its status, kosovo's future lies within the european union. the russian federation is a strategic partner of the european union and remains a major player in european security and stability. but the state of our relations with our russian neighbour is unsatisfactory at the moment. i will do everything i can to remedy this, without, however, renouncing the essential demands we make. you will join me in this endeavor. at the eu-russia summit in moscow on 10 may, the presidency will seek to achieve a balanced package on the four common areas defined at the st petersburg summit and based on common values and shared interests. the european union will establish close relations with the new president of ukraine, in particular in the context of the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy. we have every interest in having a stable and prosperous ukraine as our neighbour, a ukraine with a strong democratic foundation, a ukraine on the road to modernisation. the presidency will be working closely on preparations for the eu-ukraine summit which is due to take place during the uk presidency. the transatlantic relationship, finally. the world and its stability need a transatlantic partnership that works. the transatlantic relations today are neither bad nor excellent, but the fact is that the status quo is not an option that meets the expectations on both sides of the atlantic. the quality of our relations will therefore have to be improved in the well-understood and mutual interest of all. we will do so at the two summits we will have with president bush, the first in february at the request of the american president and the second in june. we will not focus on the differences that some of us may have had in the recent past with the united states, but we will try to agree on a series of concrete questions to which we must give no less concrete answers. the transatlantic relationship would not be complete without canada, with whom i look forward to having a summit during my presidency where we will discuss as friends all issues of mutual importance. the same applies, in another intercontinental context, to our japanese friends. finally, mr president, i should like to say a word about the middle east. with the election of president abbas as head of the palestinian authority on 9 january and with the prospect of an israeli withdrawal from the gaza strip, a window of opportunity has opened to relaunch the peace process and accelerate the implementation of the roadmap. now it's about seizing that chance. in this context, i would like to welcome the middle east conference scheduled to take place in london in march 2005. i have no doubt that it will be an essential step towards consolidating the peace process. the process of enlargement of the european union will be in line with the decisions taken by the european council last december, under the luxembourg presidency. we will start accession negotiations with croatia in march. as for bulgaria and romania, i hope that your parliament will give its assent to their accession in april, which will enable us to sign the accession treaties that month. mr president, we will not succeed in bringing the european union closer to its citizens if we are unable to meet their justified expectations in the field of internal security. the new constitutional treaty paves the way for the permanent abolition of the jai exception, i.e. the full integration of this area into the european construction by a full application of the community method. the jha work under our presidency will be in line with this perspective and our basis of work will be the excellent programme of the hague, adopted by the european council last november. to ensure the achievement of the area of freedom, security and justice, we must think european before we think national. we must promote the rapid development of a european security culture. this requirement applies in particular to the fight against serious and organised crime. we believe that advancing the area of justice, security and freedom is an essential, even existential, project. first, of course, we must optimise operational cooperation between member states. we must, for example, make possible a rapid and smooth exchange of information between the police services and the judicial authorities of the member states. this principle of availability will be a major step forward in cooperation between police services. the presidency will begin its work on this matter without delay. it also wants to consolidate the european judicial area, which is based mainly on mutual recognition and approximation of laws. we will be particularly careful to advance the negotiations on the european evidence warrant and on the possible establishment of a european criminal record. european security will be strengthened. it will not be at the expense of public freedoms, and it must not be at the expense of public freedoms, which are part of the european way of living together. the fight against terrorism must be a permanent priority. in this context, i welcome the spanish initiative to convene the heads of state or government in madrid in march. the presidency will place particular emphasis on the fight against the financing of terrorism. as regards asylum and immigration, the presidency will focus on three areas: strengthening partnerships with countries of origin and transit, establishing a harmonised approach to return and readmission policy and launching the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders on 1 may. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we often refer, and rightly so, to the europe of the citizens. you mustn't get your hopes up. if we fail to make the european union a place of work and well-being for all, citizens will turn away from europe, from the union and from the political project that underpins it. to counter this risk and to restore europe to its economic and social role, we launched the lisbon strategy almost five years ago. we wanted, and still want, to make the european union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, an economy capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment, an economy generating greater social cohesion, an economy respectful of the environment and natural resources. after five years of mixed success, it was time for an interim assessment. we shall be putting it forward at the spring european council. first of all, we must clarify the purpose of the strategy we are to adopt. the lisbon strategy, a name which i think most people do not understand, is in fact a strategy for competitiveness, growth, social cohesion and environmental protection. it must lay the foundations for the long-term well-being of europeans: we must act today to guarantee access for all to the european social model tomorrow, which must not become a myth but remain, or rather, should we say, become a living reality for all. if we want to ensure that the european social model is intact, it will have to be reformed so that it can be a response to the crisis of growth, underemployment, the weakening of the social fabric, the loss of competitiveness and productivity, the weakening of demography and the ageing of our populations. it is true that europeans do not like reforms: they are afraid of them, they do not understand their merits. we must therefore explain to them that the reforms we are considering are aimed at ensuring the survival and viability of the european social model. we must convince them that delaying reforms would prove more costly: we must prove to them that we are right to act and that we would be wrong to suffer. it is a question of putting europe back on track. the second point is that, as we draw up the interim report, we must keep the three dimensions of the strategy together: economic, social and environmental. i am well aware that europe has a competitiveness problem, which explains, in large part, its poor performance in terms of growth and employment. competitiveness must be strengthened, yes. it is not, however, an end in itself, a neutral service that is sufficient in itself. no, the competitiveness we must regain must enable us to achieve stronger and more sustainable growth and must be aimed at greater social cohesion and a more harmoniously balanced environment. (applause) i would like to thank so please, let us not start a stupid and fruitless debate about whether we need more competitiveness and therefore less social cohesion, or more social cohesion and less environmental. if europe is to be strong, it needs three things, three things that go together: better competitiveness, greater social cohesion, a better ecological environment. (applause) i say yes to competitiveness, i say no to abandoning our social and ecological ambitions. i say yes to the opening up of the services markets, for example, but i say no to social dumping, which some would like to accompany it. (applause) finally, mr president, we must think about the right method to ensure the success of the strategy. after five years of navigating between success and failure, the question is not so much what we should do, since, in fact, we know, the question is how we are going to do it. we must achieve the european knowledge area, increase the research effort, improve our education systems, and improve lifelong learning. we have to do it, but how? we have too many processes in europe. we have the broad economic policy guidelines, the employment guidelines, the sustainable development strategy, the internal market strategy, the charter for small and mediumsized enterprises, the cologne process, the cardiff process and so on. all too often, these processes have become bogged down in bureaucratic procedures that lead nowhere. the european union is more like a design office - an unused design office - than a factory of applicable and applied ideas. (applause) we need to change that by streamlining our strategy. our strategy is essentially european, but its implementation must first be national. we would like the strategy to remain essentially european. it should be reviewed globally every two years, or preferably every three years. we cannot change our strategy every six months, from one european council to another, at the whim of successive presidencies and their inspirations. the strategy must be part of the duration. we want national implementation to be accelerated and concentrated. we will propose that the member states draw up national action programmes which should be drawn up in conjunction with the social partners and which should be submitted to national parliaments, which, together with the community institutions, should monitor their implementation. these national programmes would take into account national and regional specificities and should allow for differentiation in the pace and intensity of respective national reforms, thus taking better account of the level of performance already achieved. so much for strategy and how it's implemented. we shall discuss this in detail again: you, parliament, the council and the commission, which will shortly be presenting its summary report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the partial reorientation of the lisbon strategy also invites us to reflect on the growth and stability pact. i am correct, on the stability and growth pact! (laughter) yeah, i would have preferred the first formula. (applause) but, as in 1996, we were, in europe, governed by those we know -- and not by those you believe! -- the order that was chosen was the one i gave you in the second place. (laughter and applause) we have started the review of the pact under the dutch presidency, and we would like to conclude it under the luxembourg presidency. we shall reform the pact, or rather we shall adjust its implementing measures. let me explain, by first telling you what we're not going to do. the economic and monetary union needs stability. so we are not going to chase stability out of our vocabulary or our practice. stability is part of the founding pact on which the euro is based. we promised a stable currency. she'll stay steady, she'll stay strong. the result, i would like to say at the outset, is that the presidency will not propose to neutralise or to immunise certain categories of budgetary expenditure in the application of the pact. this means that the basic criteria of 3% for the deficit and 60% for the debt will continue to apply. but it's clear to me that changes are needed. the main reason for this is that the pact should take account of the economic cycle. in times of strong economic growth, euro area member states must be obliged to allocate budgetary surpluses as a priority to debt and deficit reduction. we shall enrich the preventive dimension of the pact with a large additional dose of stability. however, in periods of low growth, the member states in the zone must have more responsive fiscal space. this room for manoeuvre will be all the greater as efforts to reduce the deficit and debt have been more substantial during the phases of economic expansion. if, during periods of low growth, a member state enters an excessive deficit situation, this situation and the consequences thereof, in particular as regards the timing of the correction, will be assessed on the basis of objective factors. it is essential to avoid arbitrary political judgments which might lead to different assessments depending on the size of the country. from this point of view, luxembourg is still a loser. (applause) i would like to thank mr cohn-bendit, we shall have a virtuous debate in committee, without too many witnesses, on the comparison which could be made between france, germany and luxembourg in the field of taxation. it is an interesting and very informative debate for those who take a somewhat superficial view of luxembourg, i must say. (applause) i would like to thank i invite you to a calm debate on the pact. i warn against extreme solutions. i say no to those who want to replace stability with flexibility without limits, without embarrassment and without limits and i say no to those who want to make the pact as it is an unchangeable dogma. we need more stability and more flexibility depending on the timing of the business cycle. mr president, you would be surprised if i did not mention the debate we are about to have on the financial perspective. i would not elaborate on the constituent elements of this case, which is difficult to say, since you know them better than i do. i would simply say that we, the luxembourg presidency, will do everything possible to reach agreement on the financial perspective before the end of june. but i'm not under any illusions. the member states have locked themselves into such rigid and rigid positions that they will find it difficult to leave them in good time, that is to say now! if we fail to agree on a common position under the luxembourg presidency, we will be unable to meet the challenge of the enlarged european union politically, legally and technically on 1 january 2007. therefore, no institution, no member state will have an interest in playing the extra time. the absence of an agreement in june will not be the failure of the presidency - i am only marginally interested in that - but the failure of europe. then let's make a decision! let's make a decision now! (applause) i would like to thank let us spare europe a long debate which would stretch over eighteen months or even longer. it would increase litigation and fuel conflicts between member states and between institutions. i am counting on your parliament, mr president, to take the decision on the financial perspective forward. we will work with you, because your agreement is necessary. you will not be put in front of the fact, i guarantee it. that, mr president, is the main point of our programme. the presidencies pass, but europe fortunately remains. we want to serve it with determination and passion, with the determination and passion that long distances and great ambitions require. (applause from the left)
the applause he has received raises the prospect of a very positive luxembourg presidency. that is what parliament wants.
if the president-in-office of the council does not wish to answer the very specific and precise questions which have been put to him now, we shall continue the debate.
mr juncker has described a very ambitious agenda for these six months; this agenda represents a great opportunity, but also a great responsibility for luxembourg and, in particular, for its prime minister, who has such experience as well as capacity and to whom we wish much success in this difficult task. i would like to comment on the greatest challenge of this presidency, which i believe is the reform of the financial perspective, which you, mr juncker, mentioned in passing. it's probably what transcends, what makes these six months worthwhile. it is clear that success or failure does not depend solely on the management of the presidency, but certainly the luxembourg government will have to put all its conviction at stake at this time, and i welcome your statement this morning that you will put the general interest first, because, as you yourself have recalled, arriving in july without an agreement would be the harbinger of financial chaos in the european union. the presidency will have to seek compromises in order to prosper; in my view, these compromises must be based on two fundamentals: on the one hand, the principle of cohesion, as the council, which has just concluded its swedish presidency, has confirmed, and on the other hand, the balance in the distribution of burdens. i hope that in these six months this house will be able to know the costs of the enlargement effort for the members of the 15 member states, because the objectivity of the figures makes it possible to make proposals that the european citizens in each member state can understand and accept. and as far as citizens are concerned, and beyond what the treaties stipulate, i would like to ask the presidency: what role does the european parliament, which will be taking a decision in may, have in these negotiations?
mr juncker, i would like to focus my brief remarks on the financial perspective, which, of the challenges discussed here, is perhaps the most difficult one that this presidency will have to face. in setting out your priorities you say that you are taking on board the reasons why it is necessary to reach a political agreement on the financial perspective in june, to enable the legislative procedures under the british presidency to be completed, by bringing national differences together. we wish you luck, because on the one hand there is the enlargement we have just undertaken, with ten new member states whose economic data will require a huge financial effort of solidarity in the interests of social and economic cohesion, to protect, as you have stressed in your speech, the european social model. on the other hand, there are the short-sighted accountants who only know how to apply the criterion of not exceeding a certain spending limit. we hope that with your experience and with the cooperation of the european parliament, your presidency will be able to give the council a broad perspective, to make it see that it is irresponsible to try to make - and i use that very clever phrase again - more europe with less resources. but we also need to make the council see that budgetary policy, mr juncker, faces much more important challenges than those of keeping spending below a percentage of gross national income. let us continue to build europe together and with sufficient means, as provided for in the treaties, so as not to disappoint its citizens.
counsel. mr president, i have two possibilities. i am answering the thirty members who have spoken, at the risk of being very long, or i am answering only a few of them, at the risk of sounding very rude to the others. so i'll try to be brief to keep it polite. mr. goebbels, who has been practicing with me for a long time, believes me to be completely incapable of this performance, which is where we are alike. (laughter) mr president, several speakers spoke on the lisbon agenda, including the group chairmen and other colleagues such as mr swoboda and mrs oomen. i would say that we seem to agree quite a bit on the need to respect the basic synergy on which the lisbon strategy is based, as it was usefully complemented by the conclusions of the gothenburg european council. as he always does, by referring indifferently to authors on both sides of the rhine, mr cohn-bendit quoted victor hugo. i would like to quote pascal on the lisbon agenda. he said, "i like things that go together". this is true in many areas of life and it is also true for the lisbon strategy. the different elements that make up the strength of the lisbon strategy cannot be separated. i am referring to its theoretical strength, not the vigor with which the strategy would have been implemented. some of you have referred, in the context of the lisbon strategy, to the necessary structural reforms that should be carried out. i have been a member of the ecofin council since 1989, i believe. since then, week after week, month after month, i have been told that structural reforms are needed. however, few are able to say exactly what these structural reforms should be. in general, i have the impression that those who say that structural reforms must be made are really thinking of social dismantling. (applause) that is why we often say, when we talk about structural reforms, that we need to reform labour markets, that we need to be more flexible in labour markets. i believe that, but i also believe that we can be more flexible in the european employers' circles. i believe that those who make decisions and very often make decisions for others would do well to be more flexible in adapting the work tool, the work instruments, to the needs of today. i personally do not like the impression that we europeans are being given that it is enough to reform labour markets, to dismantle social acquis, to remove the health cords of workers' rights to become more competitive. this is a very short-term approach with obvious consequences: we would not be more competitive, but we would lose the support of the majority of europeans, and especially of the working people. so i would like to warn us against this kind of simplistic talk that gets us nowhere. as regards the stability pact, several of you have been kind enough to give your group's support. this debate has been interesting on this point. let me explain. mr goebbels, of course, expressed the support of his parliamentary group, the socialists. i understand that mr cohn-bendit is moving in the direction of a strong combination of interests and convictions on this point. mr poettering, for his part, was supported by the epp group. it took five minutes of the luxembourg presidency for the socialists, the liberals, the christian democrats and all the others to agree on the general direction the reform of the stability and growth pact should take. i'm glad you did. the luxembourg presidency will be the easiest in this respect: i did not know that before i came. i shall return briefly to the directive on the liberalization or opening up of services. i thought i made that clear. we are not saying no to this directive, which can also be a job creator if we formulate it in such a way that it takes account of the situation. however, i would like to see us jointly work to get out of this directive what is a risk of social dumping and has crept into the text, between the lines. i know that we are discussing this directive in confusion and confusion because the potential risks of some of its provisions are not obvious. i would therefore ask the commission, the council and parliament to examine this draft directive line by line in the light of the risks of social dumping. if everyone, including mr bolkenstein, tells me that the intention is not to break the rules which protect our labour markets, we should still be able, in a joint effort to read and if that is indeed our ecumenical intention, to avoid the risk of social dumping which i see looming on the horizon with this proposal for a directive. however, even if we had the opportunity, it would not be adopted in its present form under the luxembourg presidency, as it deserves to be amended on several points. the status of members will be settled before the end of the luxembourg presidency. (applause) i would like to thank you said, mr mote, that you wanted to leave the european union because the european union represents everything that you refuse, everything that you reject. i must say that we cannot agree on this point. the european union is all i love, because i love the understanding between peoples, because i love european solidarity, a solidarity which must not be threatened by a bad reform of the financial perspectives aimed at breaking the instruments of solidarity. we have suffered enormously on this european continent from the division between peoples. we must love the european union, even if we want to leave it. (applause) i would like to thank
commission mr president, i shall not go back to the subjects we have already discussed in our debate. the priorities of the luxembourg presidency are clear. the commission supports them and will work in a loyal and constructive spirit with the presidency, all the member states and the council to achieve important results during what we consider to be a decisive six months. i would like to take up an issue that was not mentioned in our introduction but was raised by at least one member, and that is the question of better lawmaking. we also support the priority that the luxembourg presidency wishes to give to action undertaken to improve the quality of legislation. it's on the president's agenda. the cox report stresses that the quality of legislation is one of the determining factors in improving the economic environment. however, i would like to say that, beyond the economic environment, better legislation is also crucial to improving the understanding and confidence of european citizens in the european construction. better regulation is not just a matter of competitiveness, but also of citizenship. the public perception of the work of the european union is often marred by criticism of its bureaucratic, interventionist and unrealistic character. simplification must be implemented in a systematic and operational manner. the acquis communautaire must become easier to understand. impact assessments are a key factor in preparing for the most important policy decisions. simpler and better prepared legislation are the two conditions for a better understanding and therefore a better acceptance of this legislation by our fellow citizens. but i must also stress that implementation has become a critical point. the credibility of the union's action is at stake when the union and its member states prove incapable of ensuring the rapid transposition of directives and compliance with the acquis communautaire. the commission will pay renewed attention to infringements of community law and the treatment of infringements. in conclusion, let me say, with regard to the revision of the lisbon strategy, that we must not see divisions where there are none. i think we can all agree that economic competitiveness, the environment and social achievements are very important for our europe. the same cannot be said for global competitiveness, where we can do better than our partners. i sincerely believe that when it comes to environmental and social acquis, we have little to learn and little to do to catch up with our partners. but in terms of competitiveness, for example in research and development, we have a lot to do. as regards investment in research into new technologies, for example, if we compare the united states and japan with europe - even the eu-15 before our enlargement - we find that the eu-15 invests only one third of what the united states invests and 30% less than what japan invests. does not investment in research and innovation for growth in europe deserve to be a priority? i know. and it is in this sense, namely to give more focused attention to what is most urgent, that we are working with the luxembourg presidency and all the member states. i am absolutely sure that during this presidency we will all be able to approve a renewed lisbon strategy, which will have more force and will be able to guarantee the renewal of our european social model in its modernisation to ensure the prosperity of our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the consequences of the tsunami of 26 december 2004.
counsel. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, the unprecedented disaster of 26 december last has affected 12 countries and has so far caused the death of more than 160 000 people, not to mention the thousands of missing, the many injured and the millions - we are talking about five - of displaced or homeless people. children, now orphaned or isolated from their families, are particularly vulnerable in this environment. the health situation is very worrying and the damage to property is beyond calculation. the luxembourg presidency, in close cooperation with the dutch presidency, reacted to the scale of the disaster as soon as 26 december, visiting the site with the commission on 1 january. the luxembourg minister for health contacted and met with officials of the who and the international red cross on 1 january. on the basis of these initial contacts with the united nations and the countries concerned, and also following the enlarged extraordinary summit in jakarta, the presidency called for a general affairs and external relations council on 7 january, which brought together a large number of ministers for foreign affairs, ministers for cooperation and ministers for health. the council of 7 january reaffirmed the european union's solidarity with the countries affected and with the people of those countries, thanking them - this is very important - for the support they have given to the european nationals on the ground at the time of the disaster. the council also paid tribute to the general spirit of solidarity shown by civil society and citizens. the council took stock of the many initiatives taken by the commission and the member states, and of the coordination of the european union's vital assistance. together we have considered how best to respond to the urgent financial, material and health situation and the necessary and sufficient financial and operational resources for the successive phases of rehabilitation and reconstruction. officials from the un agencies were invited to participate in the council: they were members of ocha, who and also unicef. they provided the council with additional information on the situation on the ground, on the measures taken and on the assessment of future needs. the united nations' leading role in coordinating aid in this context was loudly reaffirmed on this occasion. the council's immediate main results are as follows: on the financial side, the council announced that the combined official assistance of the european union and the member states to the tsunami victims - emergency aid and reconstruction aid - currently amounts to around eur 1.5 billion. however, the council also stressed that this effort must not lead to the general problem of humanitarian aid development and the millennium development goals, particularly in africa, being forgotten, nor must it reduce resources for this purpose. on the health front, the member states were invited to join forces under the auspices of the who to prevent the risk of epidemics and to set up health infrastructures by sending appropriate medical equipment and teams. the european union and its member states will support the who. turning now to longer-term measures, the council expressed the wish that the european union's capacity to cope with major disasters should be strengthened and indicated its willingness to provide itself with the following instruments. firstly, a prevention strategy, an early warning system and a rapid response to disasters, in preparation for the world conference on disaster reduction, to be held in kobe, japan, from 18 to 22 january. secondly, improvement of the civil protection and humanitarian aid mechanism and of analytical capacities. the council wishes to develop the european union's rapid response capabilities by establishing appropriate planning, coordination and resource mobilisation structures. thirdly, the strengthening of consular cooperation. fourthly, there are other measures which the council will have to consider, in particular the development of a rapid response capacity of the european union, namely a rapid early warning system. secondly, it will assess the setting up of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps and, thirdly, it will strengthen the coordination of the european union in the areas of rescue, evacuation and the delivery of food and medical care. i am also thinking of trade support measures and bilateral partnerships, including twinning of cities, hospitals, etc. and finally, an adjustment of the debt service of the affected countries who wish to do so. this should be on the agenda of the ecofin council next week. the general affairs council on 31 january will review all the measures and paths envisaged by the union and the member states in the medium and long term with a view to drawing up an operational action plan for the union. on the evening of 7 january, mrs benita ferrero-waldmer, the european commissioner responsible, and the ministers responsible for health and cooperation, as well as myself, briefed a very important delegation from your parliament. this week the presidency and the commission will continue to engage in intensive dialogue with the competent bodies of the european parliament with a view to implementing the union's financial commitments, and i hope that we will be able to put into practice some of the lines we outlined at the general affairs council on 7 january at the general affairs council on 31 january. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the scale of the disaster in south asia makes us reflect seriously on the fragility of human life in the face of the forces of nature and on how irrelevant other issues become when compared with a human tragedy of this magnitude. it also calls into question the essence of political action at national and european level to deal with the consequences of natural disasters such as this one. and this is the right time to reflect on our instruments and our policies, on the ways in which we coordinate our efforts and on how we allocate responsibilities between national authorities and european institutions. my trip to jakarta last week brought me into contact with the true scale of the tragedy caused by this earthquake and the tsunami that followed. i was also able to confirm that the international community, including the european union and the european commission, were able to respond quickly by raising substantial amounts of aid and other support. what commissioner michel saw when he was on the ground was shocking. the giant wave completely wiped out human presence along 500 kilometers of coast, destroying everything in its path, even reaching places more than five kilometers inland, and the most tragic thing is that most of the population lived exactly in this coastal area that was completely wiped out. equally disturbing stories come from sri lanka, thailand, india, the maldives, not to mention the devastation in other less accessible countries that are only now becoming known, and the fact that this tragedy has reached the shores of africa. this huge natural disaster leaves behind 150,000 dead, over five million homeless, traumatized people who now face the challenge of reuniting what is left of their devastated families, rebuilding their homes, rebuilding their economic activities, trying to finally start their lives over again.
i am grateful to both the council and the commission for the complete information they have given us on this tragic event; in particular, i would like to expressly acknowledge the perfect coordination which the president of the commission has maintained with the presidency of parliament during the meetings which have followed, and in particular, i would also like to thank him for having added two members of this parliament to the delegation to the geneva conference, which will undoubtedly help us to carry out the work of each institution in a more coordinated and rapid manner.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. recommendation for second reading (a6-0073/2004) by manuel medina ortega, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directives 72/166/eec, 84/5/eec, 88/357/eec and 90/232/eec and directive 2000/26/ec of the european parliament and of the council on insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles [16182/2/2003 - c6-0112/2004 - 2002/0124 (cod))
mr president, i would like to record our dismay, our grief, our solidarity and our commitment to help alleviate the consequences of the catastrophe. the main points of the socialist group are contained in the joint resolution, which we shall vote for with conviction and which can be summed up in seven points. firstly, the positive assessment of the correct action of the council and the commission, which reacted immediately to the disaster and committed the necessary resources and informed parliament - although there is a lack of information, a lack of communication with society, which may lead some of our colleagues to say that there has been no one on the ground, when it has been acting admirably. secondly, the resources committed by all must be made effective immediately and within a fixed timetable. thirdly, all the resources of the european union must be fresh money, in no way detracted from other programmes; we have not been convinced by president barroso's arguments in this respect. fourthly, the commitment to combine emergency action with essential reconstruction action, in agreement with the main actors, the countries concerned. fifthly, the commitment to set up an early warning system which is actually capable of preventing disasters like this. sixthly, the commitment also to set up a permanent and professional disaster response mechanism which is able to intervene when prevention is out of date. and an important reference point in the constitution is the creation of the humanitarian aid volunteer corps. seventhly, all these actions cannot be the result of one-off actions, of coalitions led by one or another country, but must be the result of mobilization within the framework of the united nations, with the active participation of the european union and with visibility of that participation. the european union, mr president, must rise to the occasion of the tragedy and the mobilization that has taken place in our societies.
mr president, the high number of fatalities resulting from the disaster is undoubtedly due to the enormous vulnerability of the people in the region. i therefore believe that we have a responsibility which is also an opportunity. it is a question of dealing seriously with the question of the debt to the countries concerned. in some cases, moreover, this debt was contracted by dictatorial and corrupt governments, such as suharto's indonesia, to whom money was left unscrupulously, giving rise to what is now called odious debt. there is therefore a responsibility on the part of certain donors which should be investigated first and then taken up. the opportunity here is twofold: if on the one hand it is absolutely urgent to proceed to the immediate cancellation of this debt - not as an act of compassion, but as a recognition that people who have already suffered because of irresponsible regimes should not suffer twice as much by having to pay their debts in addition - on the other hand it is necessary that international aid be based mainly on donations and not consist of new credits that increase the weight of this debt even more.
mr president, i think the first thing to do - as i said at the meeting of the joint committees on foreign affairs, development and budgets - is to express our appreciation for the reaction of the european institutions and, in particular, of the commission, which we so often criticise and which i believe has lived up to the serious circumstances and the example set by civil society. i think the most urgent thing at the moment is to try to help the victims who still need water, food and hospitals and who need communications restored. on the other hand, as commissioner benita ferrero-waldner said in her speech, we must have a plan for rehabilitation and reconstruction in which a whole series of budgetary resources must be mobilised, especially in the form of additional resources, as mr van den berg rightly said a moment ago. i think the european union has done the right thing; now it is a matter of establishing an effective aid package for the victims. it is particularly important to me, mr president, and i would ask the commission representative to convey this to his colleague, the commissioner responsible for transport, that it is incredible that there is still no common system for preventing tidal waves at european union level. this is a very cheap system and i believe that the european union, in the field of aid to developing countries, to the countries of the african, caribbean and pacific convention and to the countries of the mediterranean basin, could offer it under really very interesting conditions to prevent this kind of catastrophe. i believe, mr president, that the resolution which this parliament is going to adopt tomorrow is a good one, because it refers to the solidarity shown by the local populations, to the witness of solidarity and support they have given to the families of the european union who have been victims of this tragedy.
counsel. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european security strategy confirms the unique and irreplaceable nature of the transatlantic relationship. the european union and the united states, acting together, can be a formidable force for our common values in the world. the november european council conclusions recall the shared responsibility of the european union and the united states in the face of the most important challenges, such as terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the middle east peace process and the eradication of poverty in the world. the luxembourg presidency is firmly committed to implementing these conclusions. i am sure that the debate taking place today in this parliament will help us to achieve this. relations between europe and america are based on shared interests and the promotion of common values, such as freedom, democracy and human rights. they also benefit from the unique interdependence of their economies. all these factors explain why, even at the worst of the recent crisis over iraq, transatlantic cooperation has continued on most major issues, whether the balkans, the middle east peace process, the fight against terrorism or non-proliferation. despite some pointed differences, economic relations have continued to develop. the united states and the european union share a great responsibility for international economic and monetary stability. the very recent agreement on aircraft construction shows that we can resolve our differences in this spirit of cooperation and partnership. the balance sheet of the relationship has been and remains extremely positive, but it is nevertheless true that it must adapt to a threefold evolution. the president of the european council insisted this morning that the status quo was not a credible option. first, the end of the cold war fundamentally changed the international situation. in the face of the soviet threat, transatlantic unity was dictated by considerations of mere survival. today there is a greater element of choice and political will. the tragedy of 9/11 changed the way america perceives the world. it also requires us to revise our definition of collective security. this obviously affects relations between the united states and the rest of the world, including the european union. the internal transformation of the european union towards a more political union with a common foreign and security policy, a common currency and an area of justice and freedom is inevitably reflected in the relationship with america. it changes the quality and intensity of our relationships. the combination of these factors means that of the three major components of the relationship with the us - nato, bilateral relations and eu-us relations - it is the third which is gaining momentum. president bush's visit to the european union on 22 february is of particular importance in this context. the presidency intends to use this opportunity to give the relationship a new impetus. the president's visit is a strong political and symbolic gesture. it is a recognition by washington of the common interests and values which bind america and the union. this visit must be well prepared and i will listen very carefully to the suggestions of the honourable members on this subject. we are advocating a pragmatic and constructive approach, but also an ambitious approach for the future. one of the conditions for the establishment of a strong and balanced transatlantic relationship is european unity. we have to work on it. it is also important that the union clearly advances its own initiatives. finally, as the european security strategy states, europe must continue to develop its own capabilities. there are few areas outside the scope of cooperation between the union and the united states. it would be too far-fetched to go over all the political issues today. however, three issues are of particular urgency. first, the conflict in the middle east. resolving it is a vital issue for the parties to the conflict, but also for europe and the united states. we are working on this, as part of the quartet, with the americans, the united nations and russia. the latest developments in the region open a unique window of opportunity. we europeans, like the americans, must encourage the israelis and palestinians to seize this important opportunity to relaunch the peace process and do everything possible to support the parties in the search for a just and lasting solution. the political role of the european union in the search for the peace that is needed was also stressed this morning by mr poettering. the second dossier concerns iraq and, beyond that, the fate of the region. the current situation is extremely difficult, but it is in the interest of all, and particularly in europe, that the country should emerge from the current crisis. the elections later this month will take place under difficult conditions, but we must hope that they will create the conditions necessary for a new beginning for a democratic and sovereign iraq. the european union and the united states share the same objective with regard to iran, even if their methods and approaches differ: to prevent that country from developing nuclear weapons. the european union has entered into more comprehensive negotiations with iran, which we hope will be very successful, and not just in the nuclear field. the results that emerge will be or can be a great success of european foreign policy and its approach. finally, the disaster in asia, which we have just discussed, has clearly illustrated the need for good cooperation between the european union and the united states in the face of such disasters. the recognition of the central role of the united nations in coordinating aid, which many of you have noted and which was immediately championed by the european union, was an encouraging signal because the americans were quick to agree. there are many areas where washington and brussels share broadly the same views, whether on the lasting stabilisation of the balkans, afghanistan, the main aspects of the fight against terrorism, which must reconcile the requirements of freedom and security, the relaunch of the doha round, etc. in other areas - we have to accept this - shared objectives coexist with different approaches, as in the case of iran, which i have just highlighted. finally, there are areas where we really disagree, for example on climate change, the international criminal court and the death penalty. while we must try, in a form of dialogue, to resolve our differences as far as possible, we must also be realistic and admit that this will not always be possible. so as friends and partners, let's be honest about acknowledging that there are differences, but also make sure that those differences don't pollute the whole of our relationships. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude with one last observation. the best proof of the maturity of the transatlantic relationship would be if we spoke less about this relationship in general and more about the tasks we will set ourselves together to make this world a safer world with a more balanced economic, social and ecological development. it is true that the second anniversary of the launch of the new transatlantic agenda this year is an occasion to reflect on the state of this relationship and its institutional framework. the presidency is ready to listen to any suggestion for improving it in a pragmatic way. it is by acting and developing good policies, through dialogue and cooperation, that we will make the most progress in the transatlantic partnership.
commission. mr president, first of all i would like to convey commissioner ferrero-waldner's apologies. she very much regrets being unable to attend this debate. however, the reason she is not here is pertinent to this debate. she was due to participate in your debate as originally scheduled, but is now on her way to washington for meetings with the present and future american administration, including secretary of state colin powell, future secretary of state condoleezza rice and the future national security adviser, stephen hadley. mrs ferrero-waldner will brief the committee on foreign affairs on this visit on 25 january 2005. the commission welcomes the opportunity to discuss transatlantic relations with you early on in this parliamentary term. reviewing the state of our relations with the united states will be high on our political agenda over the next few months, and for good reason, since the outcome will have a major influence on developments in the transatlantic relationship over the coming years. this debate today is both timely and welcome. i would like to start by stating two simple and irrefutable facts. first, eu-us relations are truly unique and irreplaceable. second, the balance sheet of the transatlantic relationship is fundamentally positive. on the economic front, we have the largest trade and investment relationship in the world, with figures like eur 600 billion worth of trade in 2003, and an investment stock measured at eur 1 500 billion in 2002. these investments have created, directly or indirectly, some 12 million jobs on both sides of the atlantic. but our relations extend well beyond the domain of economics, even if some media reports continue to focus solely on past divisions over iraq. we are working together with remarkable success in places such as the balkans, afghanistan and ukraine. that being said, it is clear that the eu-us relationship must adapt to the changing security environment and to changing global priorities. it must also adapt to changes within the european union. we are convinced that as the enlarged eu's foreign policy strengthens, so too will the scope and intensity of our relations with the united states. in essence, the european union and the united states are both founded on the same principles and values: respect for the rule of law, democracy, human rights and of course free market economies. we also share many common interests, such as the fight against terrorism, promoting solutions to regional conflicts, dealing with third countries, improving transatlantic economic relations, concluding the wto doha round, and creating global prosperity. in many cases, we share the same strategy for implementing those goals. in others, although we share the same goals, we have different approaches to implementation. there are also issues on which our views fundamentally differ, such as how to tackle climate change, and on some aspects of human rights and international law. looking at the key eu-us issues today, it is natural to begin with our multilateral efforts in the indian ocean. the recent human tragedy clearly demonstrated that in times of crisis, only effective international cooperation can prevail. eu and united states assistance has been vital, and together we have set a good example of effective multilateralism. we want to continue this preference for effective multilateralism by working closely with the united states on issues such as united nations reform and climate change. turning to one of the most significant areas of dispute between the united nations and the united states, my colleague mr mandelson announced yesterday that the eu and the united states have agreed terms for launching negotiations on subsidies affecting the civil aircraft sector. the objective of these negotiations, which will last three months, is to eliminate subsidies and to establish fair, market-based competition between boeing and airbus. with this agreement, the eu and us have confirmed their willingness to resolve the dispute that has arisen between them over trade in large civil aircraft, and to devote time and resources to doing so by negotiation, rather than pursuing the dispute through wto channels. this is a significant move. however, it is the beginning of a process and not a conclusion. much work remains to be done. the commission intends to work closely with member states and airbus, as well as with the us trade representative, to achieve a final result that maintains europe's competitiveness in this important sector. on regional issues i would like to highlight three areas of common priority. first, we should redouble our efforts to bring peace to the middle east now that a new palestinian leadership has been elected. it is crucial that we, through the quartet, use the positive momentum among the parties to ensure full implementation of the roadmap without delay. second, we must continue working together to help put iraq on the road to democracy, peace, prosperity and stability. third, we share the objective of preventing iran from developing nuclear weapons capability and we should both do our best to ensure that iran fully implements the paris agreement. doubtless many of you have the feeling that we could do more and work better together. the commission shares that feeling. in order for our cooperation with the us to continue developing successfully we must be united, consistent, effective and pragmatic. important work is already being done to reinvigorate our ties. the commission is assessing the contributions made to the discussion by the stakeholders on how to enhance the eu-us economic partnership and we will propose a strategy, with concrete steps, by the time of the next eu-us summit later this year. we are also reviewing the institutional framework of our relations. the commission will submit a communication on both the framework for relations and economic partnership to parliament and the council in the spring, prior to the eu-us summit. the european parliament has an important role to play in furthering eu-us ties. we have been listening carefully to your views within frameworks such as the transatlantic policy network, and we look forward to a general constructive dialogue with you on the future of the transatlantic partnership. you are an important ally for us in ensuring that this partnership flourishes and grows stronger in the coming years. we are convinced that further dialogue between you and the us congress will be essential to cement a good basis for our bilateral relations. finally, let me underline that the commission attaches great importance to the visit of president bush to brussels on 22 february. we see this as a major opportunity to revitalise our partnership and define common priorities and missions. we will do everything in our power to ensure that the visit is a success and that it confirms what we already see as auspicious signs of an improving relationship.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i think that this debate on transatlantic relations should be stripped of all its ideological foliage and focused, as the representative of the presidency-in-office has rightly said, on trying to transform the discord of the past into the harmony of the present. the european union and the united states share a common history, common values and a common passion for freedom, and that is because the transatlantic bond is written into the european union's genetic code. it is clear - and the commission and the council have both said so - that there are differences between us, such as the international criminal court, the kyoto protocol, laws with extraterritorial effect or trade policy, to which the commissioner referred a moment ago. but i think we need to put a lot more emphasis on what unites us than what divides us. and it is clear that the objectives which we are pursuing as the european union - and the president-in-office of the council said so - in terms of peace, stability, the fight against terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, and so on, we can achieve much better in cooperation with the united states than by standing up against them - as commissioner patten said in one of his last speeches - in the same way that the united states can achieve its objectives better in cooperation with the european union than in contradiction to it. the united states is an admirable people; it represents 3% of the world's population and is capable of producing 30% of the world's goods and services, and has succeeded in becoming a political, economic and military superpower today, unlike anything since the roman empire. i believe that president bush's forthcoming visit is a great opportunity to restore this strategic alliance, this harmonious tandem between the european union and the united states, and to ensure that the values we both defend - human rights and fundamental freedoms, among others - are upheld in all regions of the world, can be consolidated and can be really effective.
counsel. the honourable member will recall that the council has already expressed on several occasions its emotion at the human tragedies that result from certain attempts to enter the european union illegally. the hague programme, adopted by the european council on 4 and 5 november 2004, also addresses this problem and calls for increased cooperation between member states. in this connection, the council would like to mention the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. on 26 october 2004, the council adopted a regulation establishing the agency, which will start its activities on 1 may 2005. the agency shall facilitate the application of existing and future community provisions on the management of the external borders by ensuring coordination of the actions of the member states in the implementation of those provisions. in addition, in 2002 the council adopted a comprehensive plan to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings in the european union and an integrated management plan for the external borders of the member states of the european union. the implementation of these plans is a priority for the council and the member states, which have intensified their operational cooperation through a series of joint operations and pilot projects. a key role was given to the joint body of external border officials, which coordinated the implementation of the operations provided for in the plans. two centres have been set up under this joint body to coordinate operations and joint measures to be implemented at sea and in ports: the western and the eastern maritime frontiers centres, located in spain and greece respectively. both centres have carried out operations to combat illegal immigration by sea. the council would also like to draw the attention of the honourable member to the programme of measures to combat illegal immigration by sea in the member states of the european union, which was adopted on 27 november 2003. this programme comprises a series of measures aimed at developing as rapidly as possible a coordinated and effective management of maritime borders. it also stressed the importance of strengthening international relations with third countries of origin or transit for illegal immigrant flows. i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the informal meeting of the jha council will be mainly concerned with these questions. on 2 december 2004, the council adopted conclusions on the evaluation of the progress made in the implementation of the programme of measures to combat illegal immigration by sea in the member states of the union. the council noted that progress had been made in implementing this programme, but it also concluded that further progress was needed in the operational and legislative measures. the council also confirmed the need to strengthen cooperation with third countries, drawing on the experience gained by the various member states. the council suggested that this cooperation cover all aspects of illegal immigration, such as return and readmission, the fight against trafficking in human beings and networks linked to it, as well as all forms of illegal immigration, border management and capacity building in immigration control.
i should like to begin by thanking the president-in-office of the council, mr schmit, for the extensive information he has given us in his reply and i should also like to thank him for his sensitivity, because as a representative of a landlocked country he has given us a great deal of information on the maritime borders of the european union. in this connection, i would like to stress the great maritime frontier that europe has and to recall that hundreds and thousands of people die tragically every year in the seas bordering europe. we in the european parliament have repeatedly called for the creation of a european coastguard service which, in addition to meeting the needs of people who, because of their precarious situation, are forced to enter europe by crossing our seas with difficulty, could also serve to control the marine pollution affecting our coasts. has the council dealt with this matter? what is your opinion of the european coast guard?
counsel. the official languages of origin in which the basic treaties are drawn up, each of which is equally authentic, are currently 21 in accordance with article 53 of the treaty on european union, article 314 of the treaty establishing the european community and article 225 of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community. under article 290 of the ec treaty, the council, acting unanimously, shall lay down the community's language arrangements, without prejudice to the provisions of the statute of the court of justice. under this system, there are currently 20 official and working languages of the institutions of the union. the official journal of the european union is published in all 20 official languages. in principle, the language arrangements are adapted in the context of enlargement negotiations. there are no legal obstacles to the accession of a new member state being accompanied by the addition of more than one new official language. on 23 november 2004, ireland submitted to the council a proposal to amend regulation no 1/58 in order to add the irish language, which is one of the 21 languages referred to in the first paragraph, to the 20 official languages referred to in paragraph 2. on 13 december 2004, the spanish government submitted to the council an application for the following languages to be granted official recognition in the eu:
self-supporting. mr president-in-office of the council, i listened to your speech with interest.
i shall not waste my limited time reiterating the arguments which have been put forward by other colleagues and with which i feel completely identified. i will simply take this opportunity to say, commissioner, apart from my disappointment and dissatisfaction with your answer, that i think you have the opportunity to hear what is being said here this morning and to reflect on it and not simply to read documents from the previous commission or analyses made to you by its officials. i would like to ask the commissioner to take account of the fact that he has only spoken to us about the budgetary aspects of the problem, completely forgetting the social aspects of the problem, and to also reflect, commissioner - and this is my contribution - on the cultural aspects. the complete outsourcing of services is being done and argued on the basis of budgetary arguments, and only those arguments are being heard. there is also an employment committee and a culture committee in this parliament, which you have to listen to. as far as the committee on culture is concerned, commissioner, there is a real risk that multilingualism, and multilingualism of quality, will be affected by this decision. it is not possible to continue to take decisions of this calibre for monetary reasons alone. multilingualism is a gem that must be maintained, and it is not true, nor is it proven, that all needs can be met by external sources; and it is not true, commissioner, that the quality is equivalent, because all the analyses that have been made have been made on dissimilar elements, comparing situations and languages that are not the same. we will be very careful, mr commissioner, that in future this commission does not continue as before, thinking only in budgetary terms and always settling budgetary matters on the qualities, on the employees and the weaker categories of workers in this house. so, commissioner, listen to the social arguments, listen to the cultural arguments and back off on those documents written to you by your senior officials.
mr president, we want to make an oral amendment, which will clarify the amendment tabled by the friends of the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left. we suggest adding at the end what i'm going to read in english.
the court is in session.
ladies and gentlemen, yesterday i represented the president at the meeting of the ambassadors of the asean countries who attended our debate in the house on the tsunami. they asked me to express their gratitude for parliament's support in ensuring a rapid response to these tragic events and for the non-politicised and constructive forward-looking debate they witnessed, in the best tradition of the european union, in providing humanitarian aid to those parts of the world that are ravaged by tragedies such as the tsunami, which we have recently had the misfortune to witness in south east asia.
we take note of this and welcome this information, mr posselt.
the growing interest of the chinese authorities in establishing good relations with european governments is a good opportunity to address the situation in tibet and to demand once again, as has been done, the need to find a just and lasting solution to the tibetan claims. in their meetings with the chinese authorities, european governments must be aware of the enormous risks involved in the possible lifting of the eu arms embargo and must address the question of the existence of political prisoners and the risk of the death penalty being applied to them, as in the case of tenzin deleg rinpoche. it is also urgent to appoint a european union special representative for tibet, in order to highlight the importance of the tibetan issue in the eu-china negotiations and to pave the way for a sino-tibetan dialogue that will put an end to the repression suffered for decades by the tibetan people, religion, language and culture.
commission. mr president, in the framework of its political dialogue with china, and more recently on the occasion of the 7th bilateral eu-china summit held in the hague on 8 december 2004, the eu has constantly addressed the issue of the safeguard of the rights of minorities, especially as regards tibet. it has, in particular, urged the chinese authorities to preserve the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the tibetan people. these issues have also been systematically dealt with in the context of the eu-china bilateral dialogue on human rights. during this dialogue, the eu has regularly brought to the attention of the chinese authorities, at every session, and most recently in beijing on 24 september 2004, the situation of individuals who have been sentenced for having expressed their opinion or their beliefs. the case of tenzin deleg rinpoche is one such case. at the beginning of 2004, the eu made an official démarche in beijing to request information on his whereabouts and state of health, expressed the hope that the death sentence would not be upheld and asked for judicial review of the case. more recently, on 15 november, the eu troika made a new ad hoc démarche in beijing, during which the case of tenzin deleg rinpoche was again highlighted. the eu is fully committed to urging china not to carry out the sentence and is prepared to contribute, in this respect, to finding an acceptable solution to the case under examination. it takes the view that the application of the death penalty to tenzin deleg rinpoche would send out a very negative signal and would have an adverse impact on relations with china. we have just learned that the luxembourg presidency - and the commission immediately contacted it - is currently preparing a démarche that would also associate the commission. the démarche will be sent to china asking it not to administer the death penalty and to re-examine the case. on a more general level, the eu has called for years, and will continue to call, as part of its overall policies vis-à-vis tibet, for the establishment of a direct dialogue between the dalai lama and the chinese authorities as the only realistic way of finding a lasting solution to the question of tibet. in this context, we consider the recent third visit to china of the dalai lama’s special envoys to be an encouraging sign of progress. in the dialogue with china, the eu has regularly expressed concern over the extensive use of the death penalty. while reaffirming our longstanding position in favour of abolition, we have continued to press hard for at least the introduction of a moratorium. we have also stressed the need to comply, in the fight against terrorism, with the basic principles governing international relations and safeguarding human rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon, after the end of the debate.
mr president, as the last speaker in the debate, and before i give way to the commissioner, i should like to say that my arguments are in agreement with those of many speakers, especially those of the spokesman for my group, mr casaca. and as a member of the delegation for relations with iran, i have had the opportunity to learn from many different sources that the situation of human rights violations in iran is worsening and that this parliament must continue to take a firm stance on this issue. if europe and parliament have any meaning, it is in the field of human rights; it is what identifies us most. i would like to say, in the few seconds i have left, that it is not only the new member states such as poland, the czech republic, estonia, latvia, lithuania and slovakia that have suffered dictatorships; unfortunately, other generations of ours have also suffered dictatorships: in my case, the franco dictatorship, one of the most cruel and long-lasting of the 20th century. so we are all very sensitive to this issue.
commission. mr president, the european commission shares parliament’s concern at the human rights situation in iran and the recent testimonies of torture. like the council, which adopted conclusions on this issue at the end of 2004, the commission is of the opinion that little progress has been made in the past two years, despite the commitment made by the government of iran to strengthen respect for human rights and promote the rule of law. that is why the european union has decided unanimously to co-sponsor the resolution on the situation of human rights in iran adopted at the united nations general assembly of november 2004. this resolution expresses serious concern in relation to a number of human rights issues, including the use of torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment, such as amputation and flogging. at the same time, the resolution recalls the announcement of a ban on torture by the head of the iranian judiciary in april 2004 and the subsequent passing of related legislation by the iranian parliament in may 2004. those are interesting developments and issues which, together with the recent allegations of torture, warrant being raised directly with our iranian partners. the european union is committed to pursuing the human rights dialogue initiated in december 2002, which remains an important channel for dialogue, not only with influential representatives of the judiciary, but also with iranian civil society. i would also like to highlight the visits undertaken by a number of united nations special rapporteurs to iran since our human rights dialogue opened. that is quite remarkable in a country which previously had remained closed to united nations visits for 16 years. finally, i would like to recall that following the positive developments on the nuclear front, the european union is currently in the process of resuming talks with the iranian government on trade, investment and economic issues. these talks will provide an opportunity to highlight once again to our iranian partners that all the relevant issues – political, nuclear, trade and human rights – are mutually inter-linked. the commission is in favour of constructive engagement with iran, but that engagement is not synonymous with acting irresponsibly as regards areas of concern that matter so much to parliament, the european union and the world at large.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon, after the end of the debate.
mr president, we are denouncing the crime of trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children and the impunity often meted out to those responsible for these crimes. prostitution was practiced at the chai hour hotel in phnom penh, and girls and women were forced into such activity. at the initiative of the afesip organisation, 84 of them were released and transferred to a home for the organisation's children. in the same operation, the pimps were arrested. according to our news, the next day the criminals were released without charge and the hotel continued to operate with the same type of activities. at the same time, a violent mob broke into the foster home, took the women and girls away, and most certainly returned them to prostitution. thus, organizations that are dedicated to the protection of sexually exploited women and girls, such as afesip, see how the girls they rescue and try to recover socially are sold and prostituted again. this process is accompanied by threats and often aggression against the activists who are engaged in this task. in this particular case, i would like to express the support of the socialist group and ask for parliament's support for the president of afesip, mrs somaly mam, who is in serious danger and has had to flee her country, threatened with death by the mafias who control this criminal business. we will recall that mrs mam has received important awards in spain, france and italy. this impunity is the result of the corruption that is generated around the enormous economic benefits derived from sexual exploitation and human trafficking, with the added complication, for us, that these benefits come largely from sex tourism in europe. the socialist group calls on the governments of our countries to pursue sex tourism and to step up the fight against the mafias that operate in it. we also appeal to the commission and to the authorities of countries where, as in cambodia, child and forced prostitution is a common occurrence. we should urge them to engage in their relations with the governments of those countries in combating such activities, including by supporting organizations dedicated to the rescue and reintegration of victims.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time.
the vote on these motions for resolutions will take place today, as ordered. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt and implement the measures necessary to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected.
mr president, i understand that what we voted for and unfortunately rejected was the paragraph amended by mrs prets; it is not the amendment, but the paragraph as amended.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.30 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 13 january 2005.
we now come to the debate on the commission's statement on the strategic guidelines and the legislative and work programme for 2005. but first i would like to point out that the president-in-office of the council, mr juncker, is with us today in parliament, and with the commission. (applause) the presence of a president-in-office of the council at events of this kind is not at all usual and that makes it even more worthy of the applause mr juncker has just received.
we continue with the item on the agenda concerning the statement by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy on the situation in the middle east, mr solana, which we welcome to our plenary.
high representative. mr president, i know that today's session has been a long and difficult one and i will therefore try to be brief, but i cannot conceal from you that the subject we are about to discuss is of paramount importance to the european union and i will therefore try to be as precise as possible within the limits of brevity so that you can also get an idea of the latest developments in that region which is so dear to us and at the same time you can get an idea of how we can move forward together with this window of opportunity which has just opened up. to think that the european union is not playing an extraordinarily important role in that region would be to be untrue. the examples are clear. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the matter. i would like to thank our friend michel rocard for his efforts and wish him the best in the work he has yet to do. i can also tell you that i had the privilege, on behalf of the european union, of being the first person to meet the president-elect, abu mazen, and also the prime minister, abu allah. i think that the two interviews were fundamental in trying to put the future of palestine in perspective and to find out, in the best possible way, how europeans can contribute to the solution of the historical problems which certainly have a better chance of being solved today. during the week i spent there, which i would like to inform you of, i also had the opportunity to visit his majesty the king of jordan and his government, as well as president mubarak and those in egypt who are taking a more determined approach to cooperation with the palestinians and the israelis. i would like to make a brief comment, ladies and gentlemen, on three points: firstly, how i see the situation in palestine; secondly, how i see it from the israeli perspective; and thirdly, how it seems to me that we should move forward, from the european perspective, to support a peace process which, in my view, must acquire a faster pace, a greater speed and a greater determination. ladies and gentlemen, from the palestinian point of view i would like to be able to show you, or share with you, the mood of the palestinian people on the day of the vote and in the days that followed. if i may, i would sum up the feeling i had in those days there, in palestine, whether in ramallah or in gaza, in two words. the first word is pride: pride in having been able to manage a difficult crisis very well; a crisis that when it started, with the arrival of president arafat in paris, they really did not know how it would end. they have done it extraordinarily well and with great maturity, and i think that the international community and we europeans must take note of the capacity and the good work of a society which is proudly capable of doing things well. and, alongside this feeling of pride, there is a normal feeling of hope; hope that we must be able to nurture, that we cannot allow to be lost through lack of political action, either by israel or by the international community. ladies and gentlemen, the most difficult time we are going to have to live through is probably from now until the months of july, august, or maybe even september. during that time period very important events are yet to be celebrated. perhaps the most important from the palestinian point of view are the legislative elections. the presidency elections are perhaps sometimes the easiest; the legislative elections are going to be more complex, they are going to require perhaps more detailed preparation on our part, and, as you know, they are going to be held with an electoral law which has a majority component and a proportional component as well. the various political groups in palestinian political life as a whole will therefore be able to participate. it would be very important for all of us, especially for us and for the palestinian people, that those who want the peace process, those who want to move forward along the path that president abu mazen made very clear in the election campaign, should be in the majority. during the election campaign, president abu mazen said some very courageous things, which we have heard and applauded: issues relating to the violent intifada, the peace process and his willingness to dialogue. we must recognize that what president abu mazen has done, both during the election campaign and in the first days after taking office, is truly extraordinary. he had the courage to say the things that had to be said and he said it well, and he has not only said it, but he has done it; he has begun to implement the measures that he said he would apply during the election campaign. the need for support for this process on the part of the international community and the european union is therefore absolutely essential. let me tell you that this feeling, which i want to share with you, is not only found in the hierarchy, in the presidency or in the men who lead the palestinian authority at this hour. civil society has the same feeling. i had the opportunity to meet with civil society leaders in ramallah and see that they had and shared the same feelings, the feeling of hope and the feeling of pride, that goes from entrepreneurs to teachers, from doctors to people who work in the administration. so we have an obligation to do our best to maintain these feelings of pride and hope. ladies and gentlemen, in order to give you an idea of the situation in the territories and the amount of work that needs to be done, let me tell you a very small anecdote from a meeting i had with a group of businessmen, businessmen who are honestly working in ramallah or gaza and who are trying to help economic development, in very difficult conditions. one of them said to me, "if i have to take a container of tomatoes and take it, for example, from ramallah to gaza, it costs me twice as much as it costs to import the same container from hamburg, germany, to gaza, and it costs me half the time: two and a half weeks late to take the container from ramallah to gaza, and practically in a day or a day and a half it arrives from hamburg to gaza". that is the economic situation that even those people who want to help the economic recovery of the country are experiencing. so there is a lot to be done from all points of view, from the political to the economic. and let this be an example so that those of you who have not visited the area can see the situation. in gaza, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is much more serious. very few people have been to gaza lately; i spent a whole day in gaza, meeting with the political forces as well as with civil society and, now that we are talking about disengagement, withdrawal from gaza, we have to know that gaza is practically at this moment a zone, i would not say totally destroyed, but a zone that, since the last time i was, six months ago, has changed radically. it's a situation of very deep poverty, a situation of very great destruction, visiting either the northern part, the part that borders israel, the southern part, the so-called "philadelphia corridor", or the city itself, the capital gaza, the historic city of gaza. so this is the situation we find ourselves in. but he said it's going to be a very important time between now and summer. why would you do that? the palestinians themselves have decided to hold elections in the fundamental organization, the organization which is the heart of the palestine liberation organization, which is fatah. fatah will also hold elections in the summer, which will undoubtedly mean a change in the palestinian representative structures and, certainly, a generational change also in the palestinian authorities themselves. ladies and gentlemen, it is worthwhile to take these brushstrokes to get a handle on the situation we find ourselves in from the palestinian point of view. if i wanted you to remember one expression, i would like it to be the one i said before: pride in what has been done and hope for what remains to be done. ladies and gentlemen, let me now briefly tell you what i found in israel after having interviewed all the political leaders, from prime minister sharon, the foreign minister, the minister of defence, the defence services and also society itself. as you know, on the same day as the elections in palestine, there was a change of government in israel; a change of government which, as you know, was elected practically "by the hair", in the spanish expression of chastity; two votes of difference were in favour of prime minister sharon for the government to leave. so, although there is a pro-peace majority in palestinian society and in israeli society, which is gradually growing, in the knesset, the parliament, there is still such a deep division that prime minister sharon did not have the fourteen votes of the majority party, his likud party, and the new government had to be elected with the votes of a separate minority party, the party of yosi beilin, and with the abstention of two members of an arab party, who abstained in order to help the government go. that is the situation of potential governmental instability that israel finds itself in. but the most important issue, which we also have before us from israel's point of view, is what we might call the abandonment of gaza. the abandonment of gaza, which we europeans have already said on what conditions we would support, and on those conditions we will support it, and i think the conditions will become clearer in these circumstances. as you know, the conditions we have put for a long time are that this process which is called the disengagement from gaza, to use the english word, has to be part of the final peace agreement that we all have in our dreams and in our minds and that it must end with the two states. the exit from gaza must not be the end of a process, but the beginning of a process that must lead to its completion, which is to end the occupation of the territories. from that point of view, it is also very important to know the timetable along which this disengagement from gaza will take place. the timing is almost identical to the palestinian election calendar. what we have yet to vote on - we shall see if it comes to fruition by the end of march - is the approval of the budget; we have to see whether there is a sufficient majority for the budget to be approved by the knesset and, if approved by the knesset, the disengagement process, the exit from gaza would take place at the end of august or the beginning of september. so, ladies and gentlemen, if you could overlap the situation in palestine and the situation in israel on a map, from the point of view of their respective calendars, the two calendars would practically overlap. we are therefore facing a situation of great delicacy, of great difficulty, but at the same time, as i said earlier, full of hope and goodwill on the part of the majority of the political actors who have a definitive role to play. ladies and gentlemen, you can imagine that in order to maintain the hope expressed by the palestinians, in order to maintain this sense of pride, it is absolutely necessary that things start to move, and this means that there is action on the part of the palestinians, which has already been taken, and president abu mazen has taken very important decisions in recent days to try to stop those acts of violence which prevented the resumption of negotiations and dialogue between palestinians and israelis. thanks to these measures, there has been a first meeting today, after the previous ones were suspended, between the heads of the cabinets of prime minister sharon and minister erekat, a meeting which, as i have just been told, was a positive one and which gives some hope that there is a possibility of resuming contacts between the palestinians and the israelis. if all goes well, there will be a new palestinian government in two weeks, prime minister abu allah has it practically finished, and the agreement between president abu mazen and prime minister sharon to have a first high-level meeting once the government is formed. that is also the position of the friends of israel, who are prepared to remain in the security situation in which we are living. the efforts of president abu mazen have made it possible to hold this meeting and to open a dialogue between the two parties, which will lead to a somewhat clearer political horizon than we have had so far. why is it essential that there be a political horizon? without a political horizon it will be very difficult for the citizens of palestine to maintain the feeling of hope and pride in what they have done, and that it is useful. for this, as i said earlier, there must be a political horizon which the israeli leaders must offer. ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that a window of hope has been opened, nor a door of hope. i would go further: i believe that a path of hope has been opened, an avenue of hope that we must make possible so that it can be walked, walked, taken to the end. and the end we all know what it is: the end is two states, a viable, democratic palestinian state that can live side by side with the state of israel, so that there is not only peace between israel and palestine, but also influence over the whole region. i can tell you that this is the dream of every palestinian citizen, i believe it is the dream of many israelis and certainly the dream of all european citizens, and in particular of all those who have devoted much of their lives to trying to find a final solution to this terrible problem, which has consequences not only for those who suffer most directly but also for those who live farther away. i would like to say, and i want to say it again, that for some countries the problems of the middle east are considered strategic problems. for us, these are not just strategic problems. for europeans, they are also neighbourhood problems; what is happening in the middle east concerns us, and not only for strategic reasons, as i said, but also for reasons of proximity. the middle east is our neighborhood, they are our neighbors, as well as being our friends. we must therefore stress once again that we europeans have a great responsibility. we are already working from day one, both with the team of prime minister abu allah and president abu mazen, and with the team of prime minister sharon, to see how we can do the two things i told you earlier, which are fundamental: to change the situation on the ground and to try to give a political perspective, which cannot be other than to return as quickly as possible to the roadmap, which is what we all agreed, the international community, to be able to move towards that dream. what can we do and what do we have to do? we have to do at least three serious things, in cooperation with the other members of the international community who wish to do so. first, to continue to cooperate in the most intensive way possible in the electoral process; i insist, and i have already insisted, on the importance of the electoral process from here to the legislative elections and, subsequently, the elections in the fatah organization itself. secondly, to help from the point of view of security. as you know, we are already giving advice, support and planning assistance to the palestinian security forces from a european perspective, in close cooperation with a great country which is making a great effort, which is egypt, so that they can deploy and develop their role in the best possible way. and thirdly, we have an obligation to provide financial aid which we have been carrying out for many years, but which perhaps we should now do in a way that is if not more intensive, at least more determined and more focused on the fundamental priorities of the moment. ladies and gentlemen, i am running out of time, and i just wanted to leave you with these first thoughts. i would have hours to tell you about the feelings and experiences i have had in these few days of great political and experiential intensity. i do not have time, but i wanted to leave you with that feeling: the feeling that there is hope, that there is opportunity, that there is the will to work, and to work together, for them and for us, with the sense of responsibility, of obligation, to help this very serious problem find its ways of resolution. if we want to, we can. they want it; we're going to help them. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. mr president, firstly i share the analysis of our high representative, mr solana. for me it is also a pleasure to address you for the first time in a debate on the middle east, particularly because for the first time in many years it sounds a more cautiously optimistic note. so it is wonderful to be here and to share with you the commission’s thoughts, which of course very much complement what mr solana said. indeed, there are very encouraging developments in the region. the president-in-office of the council, mr asselborn, has just visited jerusalem and gaza and he feels that both parties are moving forward, as mr solana has just outlined. polls taken since the palestinian elections also show that a growing majority of palestinians and israelis now support a peace process and a peaceful resolution to the conflict on the basis of the two-state solution. that, per se, is a very important and encouraging development. the presidential elections went very well. i am very grateful to and have a deep appreciation for mr michel rocard, who has done a very good job under difficult circumstances, together with his team. i would also like to thank again the election observation mission, along with members of this parliament who contributed to its success. the political outcome of the election gives us reason for hope. palestinian voters showed their desire for peace and democracy and the elections have now become a stimulus for a more democratic development of the region at large. at the same time we have taken good note of the election report and we will work with the palestinians to iron out shortcomings in the election process, particularly when it comes to the independence of the central election commission. we believe this is very important in the light of the forthcoming parliamentary and municipal elections. we share with mr solana the view that abu mazen is a credible partner for peace and a capable interlocutor for palestinian institution-building, including the reform of the security structures. he has already shown leadership in the last few days with the deployment of police in the northern part of the gaza strip, the restructuring of the security services and, as was reported in the media on monday, agreeing with palestinian factions on a cessation of attacks on israel. that all adds up to a very cautiously positive movement. it is important that the international community now acts quickly to support him. the palestinian people are expecting tangible signs of progress: improving their social and economic situation, reconstituting respect for law and order, and progress on institution-building and reform. i can promise you that the european commission will play its part. i owe a lot to my predecessor, mr patten, who held up the palestinian flag at very difficult moments. i also thank those of you in parliament who supported him. i will continue to do this and especially now, when it is even more important, because it is the right moment to do more. i hope we will also have a chance to step up our cooperation on various projects. in 2004 we allocated approximately eur 250 million, and we will provide a similar amount in 2005. we will look very carefully at where our money is being spent. we now have a new instrument, decided upon in december, in the form of the action plans under our neighbourhood policy. these contain political and also economic measures that will assist the peace process. they include trade facilitation, the promotion of good governance and respect for human rights, understanding and combating the devastating influence of incitement to hatred, the easing of access to and promotion of respect for international humanitarian law, and encouraging cooperation on very practical issues that we hope will lead to an improvement in living conditions – the environment, water, energy and transport. we also look to an improved political dialogue that will allow us to raise issues not only pertaining to the peace process but also to weapons of mass destruction. i shall be going to the region shortly and will take up these ideas with the palestinians and the israelis. obviously, the parties themselves will have to do the main part of the work, in particular confidence-building. i can already see that there is a renewed willingness to do so. israel can offer confidence-building measures, for instance on security cooperation, the release of prisoners, relaxing restrictions on movement, easing economic pressure, better enforcement of the rules of engagement and means of reducing the number of civilian causalities. it is clear that the palestinians must reciprocate or even anticipate actions on security issues. they must consolidate the intra-palestinian ceasefire, address israeli concerns that the ceasefire will not strengthen the extremists, collect illegal arms and close the tunnels under the gaza-egypt border. there are many things to be done but the most important is that the european union should be united in its wish and will – as javier solana said – to help both sides to go down this avenue towards a peace that is worthy of being called peace. for that, we also look to the visit of president bush and his team to brussels on 22 february, where the middle east peace process will be at the top of our agenda. if we can at least take some small steps forward there, then we will have a chance to work together, in parallel with the americans, on the broader middle east issue, something we are both committed to.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. thank you very much, mr president, and thank you also to the high representative and to commissioner ferrero-waldner for their unparalleled efforts in the cause of peace in the region. it is clear that a lot is changing in this complex equation between war and peace in palestine: the satisfactory result of the elections in which the union and parliament took part - and i would also like to mention the efforts of mr rocard and mr mcmillan-scott and others - the fact that we have to congratulate ourselves on the situation in which support for terrorism is found, which has fallen in the region from 65% to 40% since june - these figures have to be reduced still further - the need to consolidate a truce with extremist organisations and the effort being made by the new president of the palestinian national authority to this end, which has created a new climate of dialogue, and the gradual persuasion of the israeli government that there is a viable palestinian state, and at the same time the evacuation of gaza and the west bank. all these conditions, mr president, are creating a new climate and i believe that the parties must take a decision, must take risks in order to resume the process and must also in some way encourage and resolve these kinds of situations by resuming the roadmap. now there is an indispensable premise for this situation and that is the cessation of violence. violence is not the solution, violence is the problem and the 4 000 dead, the thousands of wounded and the situation of social, economic and even moral prostration in some parts of palestine clearly show what has been the result of this great process of violence that has occurred in the region. mrs ferrero-waldner was very clear in her statement: unfortunately the efforts of the parties will not be enough to consolidate this cessation of violence and the international community will have to make a decisive commitment. and here, mr president, the european union must take a step in the right direction and redouble its efforts, not only by its actions, but by uniting wills and forging consensus with the quartet partners. president bush's visit to europe is indeed an excellent opportunity to involve the new administration in this peace process. only by being determined, only by supporting and consolidating the new palestinian authority, supporting that administration, renewing the infrastructure, supporting the security processes, can we make progress in this direction. mr president, by holding the helm firmly and not giving in to the attacks of terrorism, we can restart the process first and then consolidate a just and lasting peace for which the region has been crying out for almost a century.
mr president, i too had the honour of accompanying the european parliament's mission to those lands and of witnessing what the high representative has perfectly described as a mixture of pride and hope, which was reflected in the faces - in the souls, if i may say so - and in the words of all the people we met. there was also an expression of patriotism, i would add. those who voted and those who led that vote were making a genuine exercise of sovereignty that, in some cases, had some element of genuine civil resistance, in the style of gandhi. voting was a way of saying "this is ours, this is our territory and here we have our future, but we have it in peace through the ballot box". all that was in that message and so there is indeed immense ground for hope, but we know very well that frustration, when it comes, is always in direct proportion to the hope that preceded it. the responsibility of all those who, from europe, have contributed, the european union as such, to generating this hope is therefore immense today, even greater than before the elections. you, mr solana, have described the situation very well - and so has mrs ferrero-waldner - but you have described it very specifically and have set out some guidelines. he has referred to what the european union can do for palestine. i shall say no more than what mr rocard has said about the elections, because i think he is absolutely right: security and the economy. i would like to hear a little more from you about what the european union expects from israel in the context of this disengagement, this withdrawal from gaza which, if it is carried out strictly unilaterally, without any coordination and without any agreement in a negotiated or agreed process, may not be good or may at least have some counterproductive effects. and finally, i believe that the european union has a responsibility - as some speakers have said - to introduce this issue as a priority in the renewal of the transatlantic dialogue. the transatlantic agenda is to be reviewed in two days. the european union must give this issue absolute priority. that can also be a spectacular contribution by the european union to this peace process.
mr solana, i would like to congratulate you on your warm and tireless commitment to peace. it is one of the visible expressions of the positive europeanism which all european citizens have in relation to this commitment to peace in the middle east. now we're going through a moment where the ball is on the roof of israel. we have a palestinian leader, mahmoud abbas, who is waging against violence, not just with words but with deeds, and who, moreover, is legitimized by democratic elections. israel cannot remain passive in the face of this situation. israel must respond with concrete measures to mahmoud abbas. the european union must not only call for a ceasefire and disarmament of palestinian activists, but must also call on israel to end its policy of targeted killings and to halt immediately the construction of the wall in the occupied territories. at the same time, the quartet must take steps to remove controls and allow palestinians access to employment and trade. after many years of conflict, we can see that palestinian and israeli societies are suffering from great fatigue, boredom and sadness, which paradoxically may make a glimmer of hope possible at this time. but this strip of hope needs a correspondence from israel. the first step towards opening the way to negotiations would be a negotiated withdrawal from gaza, verified by an international mission organised by the european union within the framework of the quartet. we also think that one of the problems is that we cannot start step by step, we cannot say what mr bush said: 'we will have a palestinian state by 2005'. we are already in 2005 according to the roadmap and now mr bush says we will have a palestinian state in 2009. we have to shorten the time between the beginning and the end. the palestinian people and the israeli people are ripe to see the end of the tunnel. according to polls, the two peoples are in favour of a political pact to obtain a definitive status quite similar to the geneva agreement. moreover, this definitive status, of a permanent nature, is very similar to the agreement the two parties almost reached in taba at the end of 2000. that is a fact and i think the european union must take the opportunity to put pressure on israel to conform to the new palestinian leadership's position.
mr president, at this point in the debate i simply wanted to add an anecdote which i witnessed with mrs lucas. it was in hebron. it was a closed night. there was a power outage due to an accidental failure of some generators. at that moment, two young palestinian policemen took up positions to prevent any attempt at fraud in the twilight. similar reaction was seen at the tables nearby, with exemplary civic and spontaneous maturity. above the serious problems of a people, when this people protects its ballot boxes and its electoral prestige, it is a wonderful people who believe in democracy. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take it up again in the near future. our work is aimed, like martin luther king's, at that dream, mr solana. that dream is our path.
ladies and gentlemen, we shall have to alter the agenda because, as i assume you are aware, the president of ukraine, mr yushchenko, will not be able to be with us this morning as planned, because of the weather conditions which are seriously affecting the whole of central europe and which have prevented him from taking off this morning.
we were supposed to make a statement today and observe a minute's silence in memory of the tragedy at auschwitz-birkenau, and i think we should continue to do so. ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of sad remembrance for all mankind. on a day like today in 1945, red army soldiers liberated the nazi death camp whose name has been etched in the collective memory of mankind. it has been etched in our collective memory as the name of absolute horror, of evil in its most extreme form, of planned, industrialized and documented crime. how that could happen still amazes us all today. but it did. it's unimaginable, but it was real. today a delegation from this parliament, comprising the chairmen of all the political groups, the largest of the delegations to auschwitz, will take part in the ceremony of homage to those victims, together with former prisoners, heads of state and government from many countries and some of the soldiers who liberated the camp. in this way we will pay tribute to the victims, but above all we will remember that evil which led to the death of millions of jews for the simple fact of being jews, of ethnic minorities, of homosexuals and of political prisoners of various nationalities. it's an evil that affects us all. of course to the victims and their descendants, but also to those who were not there, who cannot remember because they did not meet him. auschwitz must bring to our minds the battle of memory against oblivion, the battle of memory against what we wish had never happened, because people who forget their history are doomed to repeat it. the holocaust is a great problem of all mankind. not just a problem of the nazi murderer and the jewish victim. it has its roots deeply rooted in some of the characteristics that have, many times, given rise to its horrible image in human history. today, 60 years later, we have to continue to fight against everything that made it possible: racism, anti-semitism, xenophobia, inter-racial hatred, the indifference of a part of our society, which thinks that it is not good for it, until it realizes that it is, that it also affects it, but then it is too late. that is why, and so as not to forget, we shall also be voting today on a resolution on the memory of the holocaust and anti-semitism. ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation to work every day, not just when the magic of round figures, 60 years - why 60 and not 59? - brings back memories, every day, so that the values of our constitution - peace, human rights, respect and tolerance - the complete opposite of what was lived in auschwitz, are propagated and defended in schools, at work, on the stairs, on the street, in the bar, in the permanent coexistence of one another. remembering auschwitz gives us an opportunity to defend the values of our constitution and, by taking this opportunity, to defend human dignity, so terribly sullied in that place. ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to gather for a minute of silence. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, this moment of silence in memory of the victims of auschwitz has been completed and the sitting is adjourned. (the sitting was suspended at 9.10 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m.)
mr. sonik, there has been a mix-up. what you have to put forward now is your oral amendment to paragraph 5, second indent, and you have put forward something else. so you will now table your oral amendment to paragraph 5, second indent.
yes, mrs ludford, we have three things: mr sonik's amendment, the amendment which mr schulz has just tabled and amendment no 1 by the uen group.
ladies and gentlemen, we have a tabled amendment and oral amendments. we are not going to reopen a debate on the merits of the matter.
mrs muscardini, we are not at the stage of conceptual debate. we are voting amendments. so we're going to proceed with the procedure.
the voting period is closed.
mrs sinnott, we apologize to the president for not having noticed that you were asking to speak on an oral amendment. i should like to point out that there was a great deal of confusion in the chamber at the time and i did not see it. i beg your pardon.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 27 january.
ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important for the president to make two statements on two events, one that has already happened and one that is about to happen, and which directly affect us. firstly, as you know, yesterday the first of the referendums on ratification of the european constitution took place in spain. as you know, this referendum has resulted in 76.7% of the votes cast in favour. (applause) i would remind you that a month ago this house approved the european constitution by 74% of its votes; the spanish people have therefore come very close, and even exceeded, the support for that project given by this parliament. in some ways we can say that the result of the vote in spain this sunday is very similar to what occurred in strasbourg when this parliament debated the resolution on this. the turnout was slightly lower than in spain in the last european elections and very close to the average for the 25 countries of the union as a whole. i think that on the whole we can consider that the outcome of the process that has taken place in spain is very similar to what we meps voted here and, therefore, as president of parliament and also as a spanish citizen, i am very pleased with the outcome. immediately after meeting him i congratulated the president of the spanish government and all the political groups which had participated in this process. the second communication refers to the visit of the president of the united states to brussels. president bush's visit this week is presented as a meeting with the european institutions. it comes to europe but it comes to meet, among others, the european union and that means the institutions of the union. as president of the european parliament and supported by all the political groups, we felt that our institution (the european parliament) could not be absent from these meetings; we felt that the strength of the union's institutions and the image of the european union, particularly as regards relations with third countries and even more particularly as regards the transatlantic relationship, is linked to the proper functioning of the institutional triangle: council, commission and parliament. i have therefore had discussions with the president-in-office of the council, mr juncker, and i have kept the conference of presidents informed of these discussions. i can tell you that after the exchange of letters last week, after hearing the views of the political groups and after speaking by telephone with the president of the commission, mr barroso, the president of the european parliament will take part, of course on behalf of this institution, in the meeting of the 25 heads of state or government with mr bush in brussels tomorrow. it is not a european council meeting in the proper sense of the term, but i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council, mr juncker, and mr barroso for having understood that the presidency of the european parliament should be present at this meeting, and i would like to express my gratitude for the support they have given to make this happen and thus strengthen the institutional triangle of the european union, to which i referred earlier. i shall therefore not be able to be present here in strasbourg tomorrow. would you like to comment on that, mr poettering?
thank you very much, mr. poettering, wherever you are, all's well that ends well. regardless of the details of the process, tomorrow we will have all three institutions and i want to make it very clear that the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission have always shared the need for this to happen. if there has been any difficulty, it has in no way been brought up by them.
the order of business is now being established. the final draft agenda for this part-session has been distributed, as approved by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 17 february, in accordance with rules 130 and 131. no amendments were tabled for monday and tuesday. the people's party group has submitted a request for the inclusion in the council and commission statements on eu relations with the mediterranean region of the question of the situation in lebanon following the assassination of former prime minister mr hariri.
i understand then that the petition is withdrawn.
all right, we'll deal with it in the item on the agenda that's already been written about it. it is not a question of putting a new and specific item on the agenda. the socialist group has also tabled a request for the order of oral questions to be reversed, on the expiry of the wto agreement on textiles and on action against hunger and poverty. it is not a question of withdrawing either of them, but simply of reversing the order of the oral questions.
since no one else wishes to intervene, we shall now proceed to the vote. (the proposal was approved) the political groups have agreed to set a time slot until 6 p.m. so that all items on the agenda for wednesday on which the council is to speak can be dealt with before that time. no amendments have been proposed for thursday's sitting. (parliament adopted the agenda as amended)
the council will be present for question time and for all matters on which it has to be present, and therefore it will also be present for questions to the council. we have received two urgent requests: a proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2792/1999 as regards a specific action to hand over vessels to the countries affected by the 2004 tsunami. in view of the urgency of the situation in the fisheries sector in the countries affected by the december tsunami, this proposal provides a necessary legislative framework for member states to authorise the transfer of small vessels to these fishing communities. the second request concerns the proposal for a council regulation imposing certain specific restrictive measures directed against certain persons and entities in view of the situation in côte d'ivoire. the urgency is justified because it is very important that this regulation be adopted as soon as possible in order to prevent the transfer of funds and resources which should be frozen. parliament will be taking a decision on these urgent requests tomorrow, tuesday, at the start of the sitting. i am telling you so that you can come tomorrow, tuesday, properly prepared to decide on this.
mr president, i am satisfied with what has been said and i thank the president of this parliament for his words on the referendum held in my country yesterday. it was a lesson in democracy. the day passed peacefully. there was full participation from those who thought that we should vote yes, those who thought we should vote no and even those who thought we should abstain. that is why no one can give lessons in democracy to our country, because there was complete freedom of action. even a major radio station owned by the hierarchy of the catholic church campaigned permanently for the no and got its results, but no one prevented it from being able to defend that position, which was as legitimate as any other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to refer briefly to something which the president said at the beginning of this sitting. as you all know, tomorrow there will be a historic visit by the president of the united states of america, george bush, to the european commission, in the berlaymont building in brussels. we must acknowledge and thank the efforts and arrangements made by the president of the commission, mr durão barroso, so that, on that visit, mr bush will receive the president of this european parliament, which is you, mr borrell. naturally, my group wishes the best for this meeting and hopes that it will also serve to improve relations between the european parliament and the united states of america.
mr president, spain has looked with disdain, with the greatest abstention in our history, at the referendum on the european constitution. and this has been partly because there has not been a sufficiently pluralist debate in the media. if we want passion, we need controversy. and the future is not glamorous. the government of my country is promoting a law which will allow a friend of the socialists, jesús de polanco, to control half of all spanish radio; a gentleman who, moreover, already has a monopoly on satellite television and who is now chasing an additional slice of the analogue advertising pie. gentlemen of the left, polanco is turning berlusconi into a beggar. either we all support the plurality of information or very soon the information strategy of the european union will not be discussed in this parliament: it will be decided by four gentlemen in a luxury restaurant, with the capacity to impose a single thought on 450 million europeans.
mr president, i was surprised by the remarks of mr luis herrero-tejedor. it seems as if it comes from a foreign country, forgetting that, for eight years, the people's party government has controlled all the public and private media. at the moment, the socialist government is trying to restore democracy by establishing media pluralism which was not guaranteed by the previous people's party government. finally, mr herrero-tejedor, does your statement imply that your fellow-religionist mr berlusconi is controlling the media in italy?
i call mr. herrero-weaver to speak on a point of order.
by allusion, mr president. i've been mentioned and i'd like to have even thirty seconds of right of reply.
what rule of the rules of procedure are you referring to?
27 b.
did you say article 27b?
mr president, i understand that you should know the rules better than i do. it's possible that i had a memory lapse...
mr herrero, article 27b refers to the work of delegations. what does that have to do with personal allusions?
that is clearly not the article, but, mr president...
what article are you invoking?
the article which provides for and protects the right of reply by allusion, mr president, is the article. it is a right i have and one i hope the president will uphold, mr president.
i merely asked you what article you were referring to and you quoted an article which has nothing to do with what we are dealing with. mr. weaver, i'm not responsible for your words, you are. i assume you mean section 145. is that right, mr weaver?
this is 145, mr. borrell fontell.
you have 30 seconds.
i just want to tell mr medina that mr berlusconi does indeed have a grip on the media in italy which my party and i in particular have severely criticised. and that is why i ask that the same standard be applied to spain. and as for the fact that the popular party controlled all the private media, does that mean that it also controlled all of mr. polanco's media, mr. medina? you want to make fun of the deputies? oh, my god!
mr herrero tejedor, i have given you the floor to avoid useless discussions, but i must point out that rule 145 refers to accusations against a member for a personal matter. that was not the case at all, and yet the presidency has allowed you to speak, so that you may not think that the interpretation of the rules is biased.
very well, mr. de rossa, that's the way it will be. but for the information of all members, in future, knowledge of the rules of procedure should make us all aware that the article in question allows us to intervene to answer personal accusations, not references to a member in the context of a debate on third party matters. i would like to make it clear that the presidency will not grant the floor in future unless a member is affected by a matter which affects him personally.
the agenda now includes the debate on the commission's legislative and work programme (2005), which opened on 26 january 2005 in brussels. i call mr barroso.
mr president, the rapporteur, mr goebbels, laments the lack of coordination of economic policies, a complaint which i agree with, but which leads to a different conclusion. without these coordination rules, the flexibility of the stability pact is tantamount to its breaking down, and breaking down the stability pact will mean sterilising the efforts of the central bank to maintain prices, it will mean raising interest rates, it will mean a delay in growth, which is what we all want, a delay in the implementation of structural reforms and, what is more dangerous, a serious attack on the welfare state. the resources we allocate to paying interest and paying off the public debt will be less than the resources we have to guarantee finances. what is needed at the moment is more employment and more productivity. more employment means, above all, paying attention to those groups who are having the most difficulty, and we know that these are women, young people between 15 and 25 years of age and those over 55. and more productivity means more investment, more effort in investment and development and more effort in education and vocational training to increase productivity of labor. the commissioner's speech also reminds me - and i quote mr goebbels again - of those speeches from the soviet union, which said that the transition to socialism would inevitably end the following year. when they realized that this transition was possible, they concluded that the transition was over and they had reached communism. a few years later, the iron curtain fell. there is no need to weaken macroeconomic stability, but there is a great need to continue to insist more strongly, more vigorously, on structural reforms which are the only guarantee, the only serious recipe, for growth.
mr president, i agree with the analysis you have made here this morning that europe needs more growth and more jobs. more growth to meet the challenges we face as europeans: the challenge of enlargement, the challenge of providing jobs for our young people and women. more growth so that europe can play its rightful leading role in the world economy, otherwise the world economy will not have balanced growth. that means, as mr rasmussen has just stressed, that european consumers, european investors, need more confidence, they need confidence policies, policies, in short, on which to base their consumption and investment decisions. that confidence, in turn, requires a clean-up of public finances and a balanced budget. balanced budgets mean less taxation for workers and for small and mediumsized enterprises, less taxation to compete successfully in the globalised world economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need structural reforms alongside this firm stability pact. we need a more flexible economy, which is not, in short, an economy that is betting on the few, but a balanced economy that supports our growth on flexibility and competitiveness.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the recommendation for second reading on the council's common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision amending decision no 1419/1999/ec establishing a community action for the european capital of culture event for the years 2005 to 2019.
commission. mr president, i should like to thank members for their expressions of either group or individual support. this is good for european culture, for the european union and for the future of europe. mr paasilinna asked whether we are going back to the past or forward into the future. the 1999 decision needs to be adapted to take account of the situation in the new enlarged union. it is about culture, not so much about geography or economics. we also need to prepare for bulgarian and romanian accession so as not to create the additional question of whether incoming countries are included in this cooperation or given special consideration. we also need to set up mechanisms for the future relating to finance, city selection and jury criteria. we must do this to promote the european dimension and many other issues that have either already been raised or will be discussed at a later stage. i would like to assure you that we can already see added value: germany has 10 candidate cities and hungary has 11. even before a decision is made, this process is generating a lot of cultural activity and a growing awareness that culture is important and that there is a european dimension for it. i am glad that there is a high level of understanding for the decision here. we will continue to work with the rapporteur, the committee and parliament as a whole with regard to making further improvements. the spirit of cooperation should be rather broader. culture should be seen as a relationship between peoples and nations and all their ancient traditions. as mr graça moura and mr crowley mentioned, spiritual and architectural heritage and the human dimension should be taken into account. cities should not be seen merely as hubs for transport: they are places for living and for culture. i should like to thank members for their positive responses and support. i am looking forward to working on further improvements in the future.
thank you very much, commissioner. this item is now on the agenda and we shall vote on it at 12 noon.
we now come to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on mrs ries' report on the european environment and health action plan.
your request is granted. we interrupt the debate to proceed to the vote. the debate will continue this afternoon after the oral question on the financing of nature protection, that is to say that the debate on this point will resume at about four o'clock in the afternoon and mrs breyer will be the first speaker.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of biodiversity is undoubtedly a political priority for the commission and the successful implementation of the natura 2000 framework is the cornerstone of the european union's efforts to achieve this objective. as mr florenz has pointed out, securing adequate funding for natura 2000 is therefore one of our first priorities. i fully agree with the objectives and priorities of the european parliament. i would also like to point out that this priority is shared by many of my colleagues in the commission who agreed and adapted the regional, agricultural and other funds to include natura 2000 in the funding. member states have a legal obligation and commitment to manage natura 2000 sites exclusively. the provision of financial resources for this management is the responsibility of the member states but, in addition, the commission, precisely because of the special nature of natura 2000, has community co-financing. the use of these community funds is the responsibility of the member states, but we are prepared to offer all possible assistance to facilitate access to them. if it is found that the management of the areas is not sufficiently supported, the commission is prepared to refer the member state concerned to the european court of justice. in view of this, the commission adopted, as mr florenz said, last year, on 15 july 2004, a communication on the financing of natura 2000. it examined all possible scenarios, including the creation of a separate fund, and concluded that the most effective approach was to integrate natura 2000 funding into existing community financial instruments. the new structural fund regulations, which are now being discussed in the council, will be implemented by the member states and the regions on a decentralised basis. there is therefore no possibility of setting a specific amount within any fund. it is also not possible at present to know what amounts may be allocated per year for the co-financing of natura 2000 sites in the period 2007-2013. this is because, under the principle of subsidiarity, it is up to each member state to decide on the needs of these areas when drawing up its national programme. the commission does, however, have the means to ensure that natura 2000 is given priority within these national programmes. i shall come back to this at the end of my speech. first, a few comments on the new regulations under discussion: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european regional development fund, which is to be adopted by the council in december, is to be based on the principle of subsidiarity, and is to be based on the principle of subsidiarity. there are also possibilities for co-financing from the cohesion fund and european social fund regulations, in particular to strengthen administrative capacity in relation to natura 2000. natura 2000 is also included - and this is important - in the second axis for land management of the new rural development regulation, which will have 25% of its total. the commission proposes a total of €22 billion for land management over the period 2007-13. it is necessary - and here, mr florenz, i would like the support of the european parliament - to preserve this amount and, if possible, to increase it. the european parliament's support in this matter is therefore of paramount importance. the new regulations contain mechanisms which allow the commission, as i said earlier, to provide guidance and to control to some extent the content of the programmes to be submitted by the member states. immediately after the adoption of the proposed regulations on the structural funds, which is likely to take place towards the end of the spring, the commission will set out in detail its specific priorities for funding all the funds in a document on strategic guidelines. in accordance with the practice followed, the contents of this document will be the subject of consultations with all the departments concerned, including the directorate-general for the environment. this consultation will ensure that natura 2000 co-financing is included as a priority. following the strategic guidelines, member states should prepare national strategic frameworks, around the second half of 2005 or early 2006, as well as operational programmes to be submitted to the commission. all the commission departments concerned will be involved in the consultation on the content of these programmes. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment of natural habitats is a very good one. in particular, with regard to the national rural development programmes, for which mr florenz said earlier that there would be a competitive relationship, each programme submitted will be examined in detail to ensure that it takes account of both the community legislative framework and policy priorities on issues such as biodiversity, the management of natura 2000 sites, climate change, the implementation of water resources ideas and other issues. if it is found that a national programme does not provide sufficient financial coverage for the above, the commission services are always entitled to reject it. this is another guarantee that natura 2000 will remain a priority in the member states' programmes, but it is not an absolute guarantee. it is therefore a key obligation for all those concerned with natura 2000 funding to press for member states not only to propose ambitious targets in their national and operational programmes but also to ensure a permanent and continuous action to prepare valid natura 2000 programmes. thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the group. mr president, we are all pleased that the commission has addressed the natura 2000 network, which is linked to the life programme of which i am the alternative rapporteur. however, i think we are very frustrated because the issue has been tackled against the comprehensive concepts that all sustainability requires and, moreover, we have fallen back into the old problem of considering natura 2000 as a crystallized territory, without life or activity. since the beginning of the declaration of protected areas, natura 2000 has become a problem rather than a joy for society. nobody wants to be declared a protected area, because there is no parallel policy of support. it's become a constant struggle. there has been no pedagogy of the exploitation of natural resources, nor of the real surplus value of this nature network, which generates and awakens the illusion. on the other hand, there has been a covert expropriation, since the use of land is much more limited than before and in many cases decreases the value of land ownership. so he has become a burden. what, then, of the document before us? first of all, it doesn't recognize typologies. we cannot introduce the concept of natura 2000 without visualising the large families of biodiversity, because each requires different financial instruments. for example, the seabed, which is not there, how are they going to be managed through rural development? we'll have to create a separate nature. nor are rivers listed as being important, when, in my view, they are an essential project. nor is it easy to distinguish forest areas from other areas. at the very least, there should have been an intention to diversify policy. finally, i would say that if we do not bring nature into the market economy, we have achieved nothing, because nature is life, economy and sustainability.
mr president, commissioner, the timing of mr florenz's question is that the natura 2000 network is the most important initiative the european union has undertaken in the field of the protection of natural areas and that is how the member states have understood it. my country, which represents 16% of the territory of the european union, contributes 40% of the entire natura 2000 network: 25% of the spanish territory is included in it. but natura 2000 has a cost which, to date, has not yet been precisely calculated. the commission's estimate of eur 6.1 billion may be far from reality, because this figure does not take sufficient account of the cost of compensation that might have to be paid to landowners and farmers who are in fact being expropriated of the use and rights they have over their agricultural land. and it must be remembered that, in addition to the management of natural resources, they must be compensated for lost profits, as laid down in article 17 of the charter of fundamental rights, included in the european constitution. the natura 2000 network is a community initiative, so the european union has to be responsible for the cost of not only managing the areas, but also for the lost profits of farmers. the proposal by commissioner wallström to finance part of this cost through rural development policy means that the commission does not take natura 2000 seriously or that it disregards rural development, or both. member states have to choose between these two objectives, always one to the detriment of the other. if the proposal we have on the table for the new european agricultural fund for rural development, with an annual budget of eur 11 billion, is adopted, 20% of that amount would have to be deducted to finance a substantial part of the cost of natura 2000. the cap reform of september 2003 also extended the list of actions to be financed under rural development, adding to it improvements in quality, food safety and livestock welfare. the natura 2000 network is therefore very important and needs to have an instrument to finance itself, either exclusively or through an increase in the rural development budget.
the inclusion of natura 2000 in the rural development regulation, as proposed by the commission, is tantamount to throwing this ambitious nature protection initiative into the trash. we all know that, following the current discussions on the financial perspective, there may not be enough funds to cover even the lines which have been financed to date under rural development policy, let alone the new measures planned, following the september 2003 reform, to improve safety, food quality and livestock welfare. it is therefore a dream to think that there will be money in this context to meet the immense cost of natura 2000. the uncertainty about the funding of this network is growing, but we must admit that it has always been there. the evidence is that the designation of natura 2000 sites has been delayed for at least 12 years since the adoption of the habitats directive. in the consultation that the european commission once held with civil society, all actors - from farmers to environmental organisations - were in favour of funding this initiative through a separate and single fund, as this would be the only possible formula to oblige the european union to make a funding effort. the commission, however, turned a deaf ear to all the actors concerned by this initiative. the financing of a substantial part of the cost of natura 2000 through rural development is not only a pipe dream, but its inclusion within the axis of agri-environmental measures could call into question the efforts made by european farmers to respect the eco-conditionality to which the recently launched cap reform obliges them. the european commission says that it has priority for nature conservation, but when it comes to the truth, it is stingy with money and wants farmers and landowners to bear the financial cost.
the commission's vice-president mr papastamkos, it is true that this is a priority. we have enlarged europe and, with the prospect of future enlargement with romania and bulgaria, the neighbourhood policy is beginning to take shape. i think that in this new context we will have to give priority to those corridors and routes to which you have drawn our attention. i would add that i expect a lot from the report by mrs loyola de palacio, who has obviously been very involved in this reflection effort and who will certainly consult all the member states.
the commission's vice-president mr guardans cambó, mr president, the commission is ensuring that the member states implement the acquis communautaire in the railway sector. at this stage, member states must have transposed the directives on the 'rail infrastructure package' and the directives on rail interoperability. as regards the opening-up of the rail freight market, member states should have transposed the infrastructure package directives, in particular directive 2001/12, by 15 march 2003. the commission has initiated infringement procedures for failure to communicate transposition measures, or at least part of them, against germany, the united kingdom, greece and luxembourg. these countries were condemned by the european court in october-november 2004. infringement proceedings for incomplete or non-compliant transposition have been initiated against the netherlands, belgium and spain. the commission will continue to ensure that member states fulfil their obligations to transpose community law. this is what it will do for the directive to which you referred, which must be transposed by 31 december 2005. the commission is closely monitoring the effective implementation of the new regulatory framework for access to rail infrastructure through a working group composed of member states and representatives of market players, who are invited to exchange with the commission their analyses and experiences on the development of the competition market. other bodies are also responsible for monitoring and assessing non-discriminatory market access, such as the regulatory and advisory committee set up by directive 2001/12 on the development of community railways, which i have already mentioned, and numerous working groups, such as those of railway regulators and those of the authorities issuing railway licences and safety certificates. i would like to say, mr president, that i myself attach great importance to this issue, because we urgently need a strong rail transport industry to prevent europe from being forced to resort systematically to road transport, which would be both harmful to the environment and, through the traffic congestion it would cause, to the european mobility we need for europe's competitiveness and for the comfort of its citizens.
mr president, as you say, there were high hopes for this liberalization of rail transport. as you know, however, as happened in the case of goods in the past, there are times when safety certificates - to give you an example of a country which you may know better than others - stand in the way of genuine liberalisation. in the field of trade in goods, this is called measures of equivalent effect, restrictions having an effect equivalent to genuine restrictions. i would therefore like the commission not only to check that liberalisation as such, as a principle, is being applied properly, but also to ensure that there are no concrete obstacles to its effective implementation on the ground.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every six minutes there is a discharge of oil into the sea and every year more than 20 000 tonnes of oil is spilled into european seas by sea traffic, enough to fill 10 000 olympic swimming pools. this is what the oceana report on marine pollution says, which has also been quoted by mr piecyk. but this report says more, for example that some 3 000 illegal oil spills are detected every year, but that deliberate discharges may be much more because, for example, in the busiest port in the european union and one of the most important in the world, rotterdam, only 7% of the ships that call there deposit their waste from bilge tanks at the port collection facilities. where does he pour the other 93%? probably mostly at sea. we must adopt as soon as possible more effective control regulations to prevent the more than 77 000 deaths of birds per year from oil spills and the unquantified deaths of cetaceans, sea turtles, fish species, marine fauna and flora in general, as well as legislation that also tackles pollution of coasts and beaches everywhere. the commission has already approved patented on-board monitoring instruments, a kind of black box, which can provide reliable evidence of illegal dumping. it is necessary, in the development of the accompanying measures set out in article 10 of the directive we are discussing today, to require all ships to have these black boxes installed, to have waste reception facilities in all ports without exception and to set up national and community systems for recording controlled legal discharges and for public information on illegal discharges and the penalties applied in such cases. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. it is also essential that penalties apply to all those involved in the maritime transport chain without exception, from cargo owners and contracting agents to shippers, consignees, shipowners, classification societies and insurers, captains, crew and others, regardless of whether they are performing their duties on land or on board, if they are guilty and responsible for such accidents and spills. the international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage also needs to be increased and regularly updated, adjusted to the actual damage caused and with a more appropriate weighting of the contributions of shipowners, owners, charterers and recipients of oil cargo. all this must be applied immediately in europe and demanded to be extended to the rest of the world through the international maritime organisation, because if we wait for an agreement there, we may find that the north sea or the baltic sea and, above all, the mediterranean, are irreversibly irrecoverable. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs wortmann-kool, very warmly for her excellent report and for all the work she has done, both to agree common positions between the various parliamentary groups and to reach consensus in the trilogue with the council and the commission, and to be able to complete this legislative procedure at this second reading. i can tell you that our group has just accepted the 13 compromise amendments and has also agreed to withdraw the three amendments which we had tabled. all this so that we can adopt this report tomorrow and this much needed directive can enter into force quickly.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur, mr evans, for the excellent work he has done and, in particular, for the consensus reached with both the council and the commission. i would like to thank the commission and the commissioner for their dedication and interest in the fight against fraud in certificates for seafarers. as you know, in order to speed up this report, it was decided to convene the council and the commission to present a draft which had been agreed. the contributions of both institutions were interesting and enriching, but the debate did not reveal any major differences between the parties, with agreement prevailing at all times. we can say that, after months of hard work, the proposal, which is part of the conventions of the international maritime organisation, will be one of the most effective rules in the fight against fraud in the area of certificates. as a result of my special connection with the balearic islands in spain, i must express my personal satisfaction at the adoption of these measures which will contribute to ensuring adequate safety and life for seafarers and to protecting the marine environment. the islands require special attention in this area of maritime protection as they are the destination of heavy trade by sea. i know that mr evans' work has not been small. today we have collectively improved the quality and quantity of the work of our seamen and have, above all, secured their social esteem, which has sometimes been undermined by these frauds of the past.
i, on the other hand, support and welcome the creation of a community fisheries control agency and, in this connection, i can only ask that it be set up as soon as possible. the amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries also considerably improve and complete both the commission's initial proposal and the rapporteur's report with regard to the real responsibilities of the agency, without prejudice to the powers currently vested in the member states. this report confirms my conviction that sustainable resources and healthy fishing practices are not possible without a policy of control without hypocrisy and without suspicion. unfortunately, this proposal has once again shown that some of the countries that talk the most about control are also the most insistent, rejecting serious and effective proposals. this agency is a step towards making these attitudes more and more evident and, although much remains to be done, particularly in the way of transparency in the inspection criteria by the member states and in european harmonisation on legislation and sanctions, having it is the best guarantee that this can be resolved in the near future. the committee on fisheries has also improved the way the proposal deals with the sector and, commissioner, i do not agree with the commission not accepting the proposals, because the sector is given a real voice and representativeness in a matter which affects it so much and in which it would be unreasonable to oppose it, and the responsibilities of the agency have been increased to try to get the commission to take its responsibilities in relation to illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing seriously once and for all. i would also like to acknowledge the rapporteur's efforts to find ways of compromise, and i would like to end by expressing my satisfaction that this agency is based in spain, in a city as emblematic for world fisheries as the city of vigo.
mr president, among the long list of amendments that the commissioner has told us about, i hope that the one fixing the seat in vigo will be one of them, since one of the people who put this seat forward is the one who is speaking to you. i think, commissioner, that the role of the committee on fisheries has been very clear in the work on this report, both that of the rapporteur, mrs attwooll, who has put in a lot of effort and done a commendable job from my point of view and, of course, from a point of view, i know, absolutely europeanist, and that of those of us who have tried with the best will to amend her report from two points of view. our committee has worked quickly to ensure that the agency is set up as soon as possible and that it can start working as soon as possible, and has also tried to improve the text of the commission's proposal, because it is true that we have always felt that the initial proposal, which was not yours but was the european commission's, was too modest and our amendments have been in that direction. it is true that this agency is the first to be set up with a purely fisheries mission and, in that sense, mr commissioner, we have looked at ourselves in the mirror of other agencies which were perhaps born with a modest mission but nevertheless saw in a short space of time how they were required to carry out more and more extensive tasks. i am thinking, for example, of the european maritime safety agency. the extension of its remit would help, commissioner, and you must not forget, to make it more popular with the fisheries sector. it is true that the proposal to create it is part of the debate on the reform of the common fisheries policy as a method of improving coordination between member states in very specific aspects of surveillance and control, but it is also true that we are trying to extend these powers so that member states and the commission can also receive technical and scientific assistance to help them in the correct application of the rules of the common fisheries policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was the european council in december 2003 which, on the proposal of the people's party, took the initiative to create a european fisheries agency. it was a good idea. the european commission put forward a proposal which was clearly improving. our committee on fisheries drew up a draft report which was also clearly worthy of improvement. we can therefore say that the draft which is now before the house is much better than the initial ones. i would highlight as substantial improvements the inclusion of the sector with voice and vote, the extension of competences to iuu fishing and the inclusion of training tasks. i regret, however, that only the powers to research and develop technical solutions in relation to control and inspection have been included, and that the socialist group has opposed our amendments to give the agency real powers in the field of scientific research in fisheries which could help to improve the reports on which the commission relies in making its legislative proposals on technical measures, conservation of resources, tacs and quotas, as this would make the agency and its technicians more actively involved in the common fisheries policy and thus give it greater credibility for the fisheries sector itself. the agency came out of the fisheries committee meeting stronger than before and i hope it will come out of the plenary tomorrow, although not as i would have liked. i am confident that the council can improve the situation.
(the sitting was opened at 9.02 a.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, we open the sitting with the sad news that you are no doubt already aware of, namely the death of our dear colleague, mr imbeni. he was vice-president of the european parliament for 10 years, between 1994 and 2004 and was a parliamentarian by profession. i had the opportunity to meet him personally in our work at cosac. he shared his values and the european ideal with the members of the european parliament, who shared his values and the european ideal with him. a person who was passionate about his daily work, he won the respect of his colleagues in the conciliation, in the mediterranean forum and in cosac where, as i said, i had the opportunity to meet him personally, as well as in the various working groups to which he belonged. the european parliament is proud to have you as one of its members. he is proud of his work as vice president for a whole decade and remembers his knowledge, his generosity and his kind smile. these are the reasons for the respect he received from friends and political opponents. he was mayor of bologna for many years and always listened to the voters and the citizens. on behalf of all of you, on behalf of our institution, i have sent a telegram to his family conveying our condolences. and now, if you'll all please, i invite you to observe a minute of silence in his memory. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
before starting today's session, which is mainly focused on the european union's relations with the mediterranean region, the president should inform you of the progress of the meeting which took place yesterday in brussels. as you know, the european council met yesterday in brussels, although not specifically as such, and the president of the commission, mr barroso, and i myself attended that meeting. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people, and it is a political union of the people. as you know, the presence of the president of the european parliament, representing this institution at this meeting, marks an important point in the political recognition that this institution deserves and i would like to thank mr juncker and mr barroso again for having understood and made this possible. at the end of the speeches by the heads of state and government, i repeat, not all of them took the floor, the president of the council invited mr barroso and myself to speak briefly, which we did. i was the last one to intervene. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but i think we should take a very positive view of the fact that, unforeseen, the european parliament was also able to make its voice heard in the end. that, in my view, sets another precedent which continues to increase the role of the european parliament. in that brief speech i could not help but refer to the resolution on transatlantic relations which the european parliament had voted for last january, and in speaking for what we had discussed and voted for here, i asked president bush that his visit to europe, which i also welcomed, should serve to open a new era in transatlantic relations based on multilateralism and allow us to improve our cooperation. i then insisted on or referred to two subjects, since there was no time to deal with them all: i chose the situation in the middle east and the kyoto protocol. on the first point, i insisted, as other heads of state and government had done before, that there was a window of opportunity which we could not lose, that fortunately we had the same conception of the problem, namely a guarantee of security for israel and the creation of a viable palestinian state, both geographically, economically and politically. that we in the european parliament agreed with the words he had spoken and that our cooperation should make it possible to put them into practice. as regards the kyoto protocol, i pointed out to him the importance which the european parliament had always attached to this international agreement and the need for the united states to contribute to the indispensable efforts needed to give it its full dimension, and that we should continue to collaborate or at least to dialogue so that we all contribute to the solution of this global problem; if not through the protocol, whose signature they had not decided, then through all possible instruments in the field of technological development to deal with global environmental problems. that is what i have had the opportunity to convey, by selecting two problems on which i believe the european parliament has concentrated much of its debate and political attention. thank you very much for your attention. (applause) i would like to thank
before proceeding to the agenda, i would like to welcome to our house sam rainsy, leader of one of the opposition parties in the cambodian parliament, who is present in the gallery. (applause) i must remind you here and now of what i have already expressed in writing to the president of the national assembly of the kingdom of cambodia, namely that respect for political pluralism is absolutely essential for the functioning of democratic institutions and that the human rights situation in cambodia remains a matter of concern. mr rainsy, i want to express to you and your colleagues our solidarity in these difficult times and wish you the greatest success in your efforts to achieve a peaceful transition to democracy in your country. (applause) i would like to thank
the agenda now includes the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the european union's relations with the mediterranean region. i think it is important to remind you all that shortly, in mid-march, the european parliament will assume the presidency of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly.
mr president, i take up the last words of mr mcmillan-scott: the european union must help the mediterranean region to become a genuine area of peace and cooperation. so while i agree with the words of minister schmit and commissioner ferrero-waldner, i think they lack more ambition, more political determination. i have the impression that we are on a kind of track, that things are moving along, but without an objective will to push them to go further, to better, to what is needed in these times. if we are talking about an alliance of civilizations, the euro-mediterranean relationship is indeed the exact example of that alliance of civilizations, which should not be unilateralism. we must share a model of values and objectives, of democracy and absolute respect for human rights, of security, of a negotiated solution to all the conflicts in the region, in one part of the mediterranean and in another, of the fight against terrorism and, of course, also of disarmament, of cooperation for eco-development and respect for the environment and of progressive management of migratory flows. all this was made clear yesterday by the spanish prime minister at the meeting in brussels, when he explained what the euro-mediterranean process means for the union. we have declared 2005 the year of the mediterranean, and not just to put it on a calendar, because we have more than enough calendars with pictures. moreover, the association agreements are there as instruments that work. we also have a parliamentary dimension in place with the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, which will hold its next meeting in cairo, and we also have objectives to achieve, such as the free trade area in 2010, but with a new social dimension. all this is being done within the framework of the new neighbourhood policy, with the existence of five new action plans and even the launch of south-south cooperation. in my view, the balance of the euro-mediterranean process is positive. there will be shortcomings, but sometimes we europeans are so self-critical that we 'go over the line'. of course there are shortcomings, but we start with a ten-year balance sheet in which we have a lot of good things. what is needed is ambition and a greater emphasis on the value of achievement. i therefore want to say that it is very appropriate that a euro-mediterranean summit be held in november to commemorate politically and with new measures the tenth anniversary of the barcelona process and an extraordinary euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, which will give a parliamentary dimension to this celebration.
mr president, the mediterranean is undoubtedly an area in which coherent and committed action by the european union can produce tangible, genuinely real results, which help its citizens to regain hope for their future, based on respect for their identity, a future which must be one of stability and progressive economic growth in full respect for human rights. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. firstly, it is absolutely essential that civil society be involved in this process so that citizens, their organisations and associations can realise that they, and not their political elites, have their own future in their hands. secondly, the real and effective promotion of trade, of a genuine common area of free trade, of free trade between south and south - there are still too many closed borders in that area - and, of course, south and north - in this case, south and north - by creating a genuine area of free trade between the european union and the mediterranean area. these two points seem to me to be capital.
mr president, the mediterranean region is a priority for the european union. their countries are neighbours of many of the union's members, they have important links of all kinds: historical, political, economic, cultural, human; just think of the large number of citizens of these countries who reside in many of our countries. it is clear that the countries of the southern shore are not all in the same situation, but the vast majority of them face major challenges, such as advancing democratization, pluralism and respect for human rights; economic and social modernisation; reforms in their administration; improvements in public services, especially in education for their many young people. i am glad that commissioner ferrero-waldner has stressed the educational aspect. another challenge is to make progress in the effective fight against terrorism, the mafia that traffics in illegal immigration and corruption. the european union and the member states must encourage their southern neighbours to meet these challenges successfully, through dialogue, cooperation and, in short, genuine collaboration at all levels. progress in political and economic liberalisation and advances in education, for example, will allow for greater stability in these countries. they will also help to defeat extremism and fanaticism, which usually thrive in the soil of poverty and ignorance. we must be aware that the prosperity and stability of these countries are also our own. we have a future together. we cannot disagree; we must cooperate closely. the barcelona process, the european neighbourhood policy and the action plans are the basic european instruments for achieving these objectives. i am glad that the ana lindt foundation is about to be set up and that this parliament will shortly be taking over the presidency of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. now, ten years after the launch of the barcelona process, we must continue to encourage the process so that the citizens of the countries on the southern shore do not think that enlarged europe is forgetting its problems. the barcelona process must therefore be strongly supported and this year, 2005, which is being called the year of the mediterranean, is a great opportunity to give the process a new impetus, precisely now, when prospects for peace in the middle east are opening up, as many speakers have stressed.
acting president of the council. mr president, the european union played an active role at the 60th session of the commission on human rights in geneva. as in previous years, it launched the largest number of initiatives: three on specific themes and ten on the human rights situation in various countries. the 61st session of the commission on human rights is taking place in a different context in several respects. at union level, the recent appointment of a personal representative of the secretary-general and high representative for human rights underlines the importance the union attaches to strengthening its human rights policy. in the context of the united nations, the publication of the report of the high-level panel 'a safer world: our common concern' has launched a wide-ranging debate on the reform of the united nations, and in particular that of the hrc. while opinions on the recommendations on the hrc differ, all agree on the need to strengthen its action and, in general, to strengthen the human rights dimension in the united nations framework. in this new context, the momentum generated by the debate on the hrc, together with the hope generated by the latest developments in the middle east, allows us to consider that the 61st session of the hrc can make a significant contribution to the progress of human rights. the european union considers the commission on human rights to be the main united nations forum for the promotion and protection of human rights in the world and intends to continue to play an active role in it and to cooperate with other regional groups. however important the union's action in the hrc is, it is not the only means at its disposal to promote human rights. the common guidelines on human rights, cooperation with other organisations such as the council of europe or the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, and the human rights dialogues with china and iran are all instruments for the promotion of human rights. discussions are still ongoing on the initiatives to be taken by the european union in the context of the human rights council this year. some decisions have already been taken. the union will present thematic resolutions on religious intolerance, the death penalty and the rights of the child. these are three main themes. in the face of manifestations of intolerance towards believers of whatever religion they profess, the union wishes to reaffirm its determination to combat all intolerance. the union considers that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the strengthening of human dignity and works towards its universal abolition. it considers that the commission on human rights is an appropriate framework for promoting this objective. the promotion and protection of the rights of the child is an important part of the european union's human rights policy. the european union has decided to present resolutions on the human rights situation in myanmar, the democratic people's republic of korea and the israeli settlements in the occupied territories. discussions on further initiatives to be presented by the union will continue at the next meetings of the human rights group to be held before the session of the hrc. at its march meeting, the council will formally define the union's priorities for the 61st session of the hrc. beyond its own initiatives, the union intends to cooperate with third countries which take initiatives to promote human rights, in particular in the context of the fight against terrorism or in the context of transnational corporations. as in the past, it will endeavour to encourage the spirit of dialogue which is essential to the joint search for solutions to common problems. the european union hopes to have the support of parliament, whose resolution is much more ambitious than our programme for the 61st session of the hrc. the union shares the concerns expressed by parliament and i can assure you that the problems you mention are taken into account in our debates and in our decisions. however, as i said earlier, we have other tools than action within the human rights commission alone and we try to find the most appropriate and effective tool for each situation.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the european parliament also makes a welcome contribution to the european union's preparations for the 61st session of the un commission on human rights in geneva. and it is important that the eu prepares its strategy well. the resolutions and the debates in parliament naturally stimulate our work. the european union is clearly facing a number of challenges, not least a growing rejection of country-specific resolutions by many members of the commission on human rights. this development was particularly evident in the rejection of the draft resolutions on chechnya and zimbabwe by the mrk last year. in my view, these resolutions are a crucial aspect of the work of the icrc, because they draw attention to human rights violations and they appoint special rapporteurs who have a mandate to investigate and report on such violations. it should be assumed that at least the 53 member states of the un commission on human rights have issued standing invitations to rapporteurs and created mandates for them. in fact, only 19 countries have been nominated as members of the icrc. eight of these are current eu members, and even where there is a standing invitation, the rapporteurs often face certain obstacles in the exercise of their mandates. this is a point which deserves greater attention in the political debates with third countries of the european union and in our relations with the office of the high commissioner for human rights and with other organisations. the european union is currently reflecting on the thematic and country initiatives that we can launch at the 61st igc. we have an important role to play in this process. let me stress that the european union is already responsible for the lion's share of national resolutions. but it is not realistic to expect that we can extend this list indefinitely. we must concentrate our energies here as well. therefore, lobbying is important for our initiatives throughout the mrk membership to prevent further voting defeats. we are also considering what we can do beyond the national initiatives. this is mainly a matter of thematic involvement; i am thinking of the death penalty, religious intolerance, the issue of children's rights. let me also stress that the possibility of a vote being defeated should not in itself be a reason to abstain from the tabling of a resolution. as human rights activists have repeatedly told us, the introduction of a draft resolution sends a clear signal to the government and to the people. and i think it is equally important to encourage other partners to bring resolutions on their own responsibility, for example switzerland on nepal. the european parliament resolution also states that the fact that the eu is engaged in a human rights dialogue with a particular country should not preclude support for a unhrc resolution. for example, the support of all 25 member states for canada's resolution on iran in the third committee of the un general assembly last year clearly demonstrated that this principle is being respected in practice. when the european union invites third countries to support its initiatives, we must of course also bear in mind the larger context of all our relations with member states; for example, the human rights clause in the cotonou treaty concerns not only the domestic human rights policies of a third country but also the respect for human rights in its foreign policy. we must also send a clear message of our continued support to the high commissioner for human rights and the office, which are a vital part of the un human rights machinery. financial assistance is part of this support, and i am pleased to report that a number of projects are planned with the high commissioner for human rights. in conclusion, i would say that the commission will of course support the luxembourg presidency in every way during this year, which will undoubtedly be a challenging one for the cor.
on behalf of the group. mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, human rights are an area of particular interest to the european parliament. the intensity of the debates and the amendments to the report we voted on this week show that the political groups are working to achieve a broad consensus so that the european union can play a leading role at the 61st session of the united nations commission on human rights in geneva. for the socialists, the european union's human rights policy is the great asset of the union's external action. the european union's external action is characterised by the promotion, promotion and encouragement of human rights. europe has a duty to eradicate suffering in the world. in view of the forthcoming meeting of the united nations commission on human rights, i would like to ask the commission and the council, who are here, to commit themselves firmly to fully involving the european parliament delegation in the work and negotiations taking place in geneva. parliament has legitimacy and deserves credibility so that our presence in geneva is not merely symbolic. i would like to see the coordination methods established through which this collaboration can be carried out successfully. i also ask the council and the commission to ensure that the recommendations made in this report are taken seriously and accurately. in particular, i find it remarkable that parliament is keen for the european union to carry out its task in the commission on human rights in geneva with balance, consistency and rigor, trying to overcome the logic of realpolitik. the parliament's report goes beyond the recommendations exclusively addressed to the third world countries to focus on human rights themselves. in this way, our report advocates denouncing abuses and violations wherever they occur, whether in uzbekistan or in guantanamo. in conclusion, i would like to ask the house for support for the introduction of reproductive health rights in this report and i would address more directly the conservative wing of this house. reproductive health rights are fundamental in the fight against aids and also to guarantee other human rights. we advocate fighting against all forms of discrimination not only on religious grounds, but also on grounds of gender and sexual orientation.
mr president, the forthcoming meeting of the united nations commission on human rights is an opportunity to address some of the outstanding challenges. the european union should promote specific resolutions on certain issues such as the situation in colombia, the responsibility of companies in the field of human rights, the right of self-determination of forgotten peoples such as the tibetan or saharawi, or discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity in line with the brazilian initiative. the european union should also promote the reform of the commission, so that it requires, as a prerequisite for membership, that governments have ratified the main human rights treaties, fulfilled their reporting obligations, implemented the recommendations adopted by the monitoring bodies of those treaties and issued open invitations to un human rights experts. these are issues which will have to be taken very seriously in the future and i would like to invite the european union to take them seriously.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the whole of the european parliament i warmly welcome you and sincerely congratulate you on your election as president of ukraine. we would have liked to have had you here on 27 january, but everyone will remember that on that day the snow prevented transport in much of europe and you from reaching strasbourg. let me also, mr president, on behalf of all those present, congratulate you on your birthday today. (applause) birthdays happen to all of us from time to time; what doesn't happen to all of us is to be a protagonist of the historical events that your country has lived through. i would also like to greet the large ukrainian delegation in the official gallery. (applause) mr president, the elections in your country have confirmed the democratic affirmation of ukrainian society, they have demonstrated the maturity of your people and their willingness to face a future of peace and progress. we all have and will have for a long time the images of the citizens' mobilization at the end of last year, and today we are impressed by the ambitious democratic and economic reforms you want to carry out. we know that this will not be an easy task, but you can be sure that the european union will support you in this. i would remind you that on 13 january our parliament adopted a resolution calling on the council, the commission and the member states - and i quote the text - to examine, in addition to the measures contained in the action plan recently adopted, other forms of association with ukraine, establishing a clear european perspective for the future of your country and responding to the proven aspirations of the great majority of your people, with the possibility that ukraine may one day become a member of the european union. (applause) that is what the european parliament said. i repeat, mr president, what this parliament has adopted as the final stage of a process in which we have been deeply involved, because we believe that the 12 days of the orange revolution have served not only to demonstrate the strength of the democratic aspirations of your country but also to demonstrate the capacity of the european union to act politically in its immediate environment. that is two reasons for our great satisfaction. what you have done and the part we have played as political subjects. it is all the more reason to welcome him, to wish him a happy, albeit brief, stay in strasbourg. you have the floor, mr president. (laughter)
president of ukraine this speech was delivered in ukrainian; this is a transcript of the interpretation.. mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour and a great pleasure for me to address you here in this chamber. the european parliament is a symbol of democracy within the european union and democracy is the value that unites all of us today. democracy is the cornerstone on which our prosperity is built, as is the case with every country which has chosen the path of democracy and freedom, and for our entire continent which was enabled to build a union of free countries. i am therefore very proud to be able to address the european parliament. i am also very proud to be able to be representing a country that has created a new symbol within the european continent. the berlin wall was pulled down and our orange revolution too became a new symbol within a democratic europe. all this means that totalitarianism will no longer be possible on our continent. our people were able to choose the path of freedom and truth, showing that they were able to fight and to do their utmost to live in a europe which is united and free. the borders of europe now extend from lisbon to beyond kiev. we have chosen the european civilisation. it is not just a question of geography, it is a question of our spiritual values, of our shared moral values too. in my country we have seen the president elected democratically for a second time and this time it has happened in a transparent and democratic way. democracy won the day even though it cost the people of my country and me myself a lot of effort. this victory became possible because we saw the development of a proper civil society in ukraine. journalists, politicians, businessmen, judges, public servants, all became mobilised, thanks to the establishment of what is almost a new nation, that is to say ukraine. you in the european parliament should consider yourselves the godfathers and godmothers of that newly-born democratic ukraine. during those unforgettable days of the orange revolution your support was of great encouragement, a great symbol for us, helping us in our struggle against the fear we knew during the month of december, which was a very difficult month to live through. here in the european parliament we heard, we understood, that a new democratic society was possible within ukraine. a new page of the european history book was being turned. in true ukrainian fashion i would like to thank you for your support and for your struggle for our freedom. thank you, all of you. (loud and sustained applause) dear friends, we are here together. ukraine still needs to do much to become a full member of the european family but we have already attained our main objective. we are now united by shared values. we have a shared history. we have shared aspirations. these things unify us and this feeling of unity is so much more important than mere statements that people make. my country today has embarked upon a path of new reforms. this process reminds me of the process of making bread: you need good ingredients, you need hard work. when the dough is ready it then depends on how you shape it for it to become a good loaf. for us in ukraine, our objective for this bread is that it be shaped by the new standards and new values adopted in accordance with european standards and values. european integration is the only true path open to ukraine. over recent days we have already moved towards integration into the european union. we have chosen our strategic and political path in that direction. over and above words, we need to see action. in the past, democracy, the rule of law and even the media were very difficult in ukraine. there was a lot of corruption. that forced the people out into the streets and into the squares to call for better conditions, for internal reforms to take place and for us to move towards the european union. ukraine and the european union should not forfeit this single and unique opportunity. we appreciate your commitment to grasping this historic opportunity. by adopting its resolution on 13 january this year the european parliament has shown how visionary it is by recommending to the council, the commission and the member states that they support ukraine in its european aspirations. i believe that the extension of the ukraine action plan is an extremely positive gesture. we, in ukraine, will do everything we can to implement the provisions of the action plan from our side. i would emphasise once again how we will do our utmost to achieve this. it is one of the most important tasks ahead for my government. ukraine will do its utmost so that we can now conduct a joint analysis, enabling us to show how much progress we have made. i hope that in the year 2007 it will be possible for us at the end of the action plan to begin negotiations for membership and that we could open up the process of negotiations for membership in that way. the neighbourhood policy already seems to have been overtaken by events. the scope and dimension of our relations should be based on the fact that ukraine is an integral part of a united europe already. once again i emphasise that we feel that our cooperation with the european union is situated very much within the framework of the action plan, but going beyond the neighbourhood policy and we are proposing that, as of now, we undertake actions with a view to the future membership of ukraine in the european union. we know the position of our partners who propose that different scenarios be developed. we feel that it is important for our own aspirations to be supported. my final objective and that of my country and my government is for ukraine to join the european union. the final outcome of the conclusion of the action plan, which we are fully prepared to implement faster than was originally planned, could then allow for the creation of an association agreement. ukraine can make an official request on the basis of article 49 of the european union treaty, and we can do our utmost to meet the copenhagen criteria. i would emphasise once again that we understand that most of the work for joining the european union will fall to us. we are the ones who have to make the effort, and if we cannot implement quick reforms, the european union will not be able to help us. nobody can do that work for us. my government has already drawn up an action plan for the next five years, with the ultimate objective of our joining the european union. the deputy prime minister responsible for european cooperation is currently drawing up all the detailed aspects of that action plan. we shall be doing our best to ensure that we have a transparent economy, an economy that works, to alleviate taxes, fight against corruption, and ensure that the judiciary and the media are independent. during my presidency, there will be no talk of the infringement of human rights in ukraine. our ambition for european integration requires us to make progress in the reforms that i have just listed. these are important objectives for us and clearly it is going to require much work to adapt our society. we will have to adapt our administrative structures to european standards to ensure that people shoulder their responsibilities. we want the people of ukraine to trust the administration again and for them to understand our policies. we will be introducing social reforms, reforms in the areas of education and training, and social protection. one of the most important priorities is the reform of the judiciary. we will be fighting against drug trafficking and illegal immigration and doing our utmost to ensure that our judicial system works properly, based on european standards, and with regard to human rights and respect for the dignity of human beings. i am convinced that we can avoid discrimination of any kind being tolerated in our society and in our fight against the scourges with which we are all familiar in europe. ukraine will continue to fight for the rights of its citizens to become true european citizens, for them to feel that they belong to the european family. we shall be doing everything we can to implement things in a meticulous way at all levels, in the economy, in social life and in every area of society. we need to ensure that all this is done with a european vision and in a european spirit. there is very much a european philosophy underpinning my work and the work of my government. i can show you that my government will be moving from words to deeds, and the practical support of the european union in these endeavours will only be effective if that is the case. now the definitive choice of europe cannot be refuted by anybody really. it is the only path open to us to bring us closer to the european union. it is now time for a decisive step to be taken also vis-à-vis ukraine. the atlantic alliance is something that will further assist the creation of civil society, the rule of law and respect for human rights in my country during my presidency. we are more interested than anybody in developing our relations also with the russian federation, our big neighbour. we do not see our moving towards europe as a problem for russia because it will help to bring the russian federation itself closer to europe. nobody can say that ukraine moving towards europe could prevent us having closer cooperation with our russian neighbours. do not believe those who say that ukraine moving into european structures is against the interests of russia. i am convinced that this is not the case and, in fact, the opposite is true. if ukraine were a member of the european union and nato, it would not mean that we would use that membership against the interests of russia and the russian people. a stable ukraine, just as a stable russia, is something that should be considered as guarantors for our common and shared values. as far as our cooperation with the russian federation is concerned, there will be a new regional policy to develop that. as far as concrete actions are concerned, we have already begun to undertake such actions with the european union aimed at a peaceful settlement of the transnistria dispute. we feel that this is a way that we will be able to help to contribute to european values becoming rooted in our region. transfrontier cooperation, energy networks and the like will become ways of fleshing out our cooperation in concrete terms, from baku to the western frontiers of the european union. in this way we can bring european standards into our region. this is clearly one of our priorities. we feel that this is the only vision that will enable my country properly to meet these aspirations. dear friends, nothing is guaranteed. we have to defend our common values on a day-to-day basis. we have to build jointly the walls of the house within which our peoples live. unless a house has solid foundations it will collapse. and as it says in the bible: a house divided against itself cannot stand. it is the strength of europe that is to be found in this unity. you, yourselves, have been the witnesses to the emergence of this new colour on the european map - the colour orange. you know that ukraine can also form part of the future of europe. the time has come now for us to work hard; the time has come now for us to take concrete measures. it is not going to be easy for us to do this, but i know that, by going together down this path, in this direction, we will be able to achieve our final goal. thank you very much. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
i am grateful to the president for his words, which have only confirmed that history has willed that the building of an independent ukraine should be accompanied by the building of a strong political europe. we have been together at a crucial moment and you have clearly expressed your wish that we should remain together in the future. you can be sure that the european parliament will support the determination you have shown to build a ukraine based on political freedom, economic progress and social cohesion, which are the three hallmarks of european society. (the sitting was closed at 12.50 p.m.)
mr president, in the light of the speeches made by the various parliamentary groups in the debate this morning, and in contact with all of them, i would like to propose that we adopt a new paragraph 18a, the text of which would read as follows: 'it wishes the council to adopt the decision to organise a euro-mediterranean summit of heads of state and government to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the barcelona process; stresses, in this context, the importance of the parliamentary dimension of the process and calls on the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly to meet in cairo from 12 to 15 march 2005 to convene an extraordinary meeting of the euro-mediterranean assembly to take part in the celebration of the tenth anniversary.'
mr president, i simply wanted to speak on the oral amendment tabled by mr morillon, which we have just voted on and with which we agree. the end of paragraph 9, which refers to the sending of an election observation mission to lebanon, should, according to the agreement that seems to exist between all the political groups, become a separate paragraph. in introducing his amendment, mr morillon has omitted this aspect, which i think is important.
acting president of the council. mr president, i think this debate has shown that moldova is not the forgotten country of europe. it has shown that we are interested in this country which is, however, a little behind the general trend in europe: the trend towards more democracy, the trend towards economic and social reforms, the fight against corruption, the fight against human trafficking, all very important topics in this context. i believe that the lesson we can draw from this debate, and on which your parliament, the council and the commission agree, is, as someone has said, to send a strong signal to moldova: it must not miss the course of history after what has happened in ukraine. i believe that this message must be conveyed clearly and firmly to the moldovan authorities, not only in the run-up to the elections but also afterwards. the commissioner spoke about the european neighbourhood policy. through this policy, through the action plan, pressure must be exerted on the moldovan authorities, the authorities in place, but also those of tomorrow, to actually undertake these reforms and to ensure that they have real content.
member of the commission. mr president, transnistria has been an issue in the debate here today, and is an issue on the ground. we talked about it at length yesterday. as austrian foreign minister and osce chairperson-in-office in 2000 i tried very hard to find a solution to the transnistrian problem. at the time there was a rapprochement. prime minister primakov had been nominated by russia and there was a chance to get somewhere. however, immediately afterwards, this question unfortunately erupted again and no solution has been found. therefore, i am very happy about the secretary-general's new special representative, because it is very important to go further. this was said yesterday. we must do everything we can via our action plan, but we must also find a solution to this very difficult problem. i will be going to moldova shortly after the election, as soon as a new government has been formed. i said this yesterday at our meeting and i can also officially announce today that the commission will open a new delegation there. if we want a new neighbourhood policy, then the time is now. it is important and i hope that i can combine my visit with the opening of such a delegation. moldova is the poorest country in europe today. but let us not to go too far. let us act. rhetoric and vision are necessary, but it is even more necessary to look at the complexity of the situation. i know the country because i went there many times in my former capacities. many things need to be done. the action plan is appropriate to that. please look at the action plan. i have heard that some people want to go beyond the action plan, but this is not the time for that. it is now the time for the neighbourhood policy to bring these countries closer to the european union. however, it is a question of give and take. these countries also have to accept the helping hand we are stretching out to them.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, at the united nations general assembly last year, president lula launched an initiative which was immediately joined by president chirac, president lagos and president zapatero, and which led to the declaration on action against hunger and poverty of 20 september, signed by 111 governments, including all of those of the european union. it is an initiative that updates and relaunches the millennium development goals set for the year 2000 by the united nations. in addition, the last paragraph of article 3 of the european constitution, which is currently being ratified, proclaims the european union's adherence to international law and to the united nations and its charter, and it clearly commits itself to the millennium agenda, as well as proclaiming the principle of free and fair trade. all this requires an intensified and growing effort not only by the member states but also by the european union. it is the right time to know the commission's and the council's views, not only on important and topical issues such as the situation in africa or climate change, but also to intensify our financial efforts with a view to increasing development aid, to keep within the framework of the millennium agenda and, above all, to be able to take a leading and responsible attitude on this subject so essential for the future of humanity. finally, mr president, i think that this point should also be extended to the mandate which the commission should receive in the run-up to the hong kong summit in the context of the doha round.
mr president, the current spanish prime minister, in the election campaign in my country in the spring of 2004, said that he would take spain out of the picture of the war trio of the azores and put it in the quintet of the fight against hunger. he's lived up to it. this quintet, headed by president lula, has succeeded in placing the fight against hunger and extreme poverty on the international agenda. i have the honour of having presented the first document on this subject to this parliament. i do so for three reasons: firstly, because i believe that the european union must lead the international community in its efforts to achieve this goal. secondly, because the objective is achievable: technically, financially and economically, hunger can be defeated, it can be eradicated. and finally, madam commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, because i believe that the fight against hunger and poverty is not a matter of development aid alone. it must be - and it is - one of the axes, one of the pillars of the foreign policy of the european union and its member states. just as 15 or 20 years ago human rights and development aid were part of the body of foreign policy doctrine, so today the fight against hunger and poverty - not as a campaign, but as a permanent thing - must be part, madam commissioner, of the foreign policy of the commission, the council and the european union as a whole.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, we have put this question, like the previous one on hunger, jointly with the chairman of the committee on development and myself, as chairman of the committee on international trade, to raise a new situation which is profoundly changing the world trade map. this is the end of the transitional period of the att agreement on textiles and clothing, which was intended to last for ten years, after which the quotas were to expire. that happened on january 1st of this year. it creates a new situation. mrs morgantini referred to a copernican change in at least 59 countries which had quotas with the european union, which implies a redistribution of world trade with consequences for employment and economic activity worldwide, not only in relation to the european union or the united states, but also within the european union. the textile and clothing industry is a sector which is undergoing continuous restructuring. we all know that there is at least one factory in every constituency in the union. there are more than 100 000 small and mediumsized enterprises employing more than two million people. we must therefore put forward a major transitional policy and i regret that commissioner mandelson, who is in beijing, is not here. i think we must also have a serious discussion with our chinese colleagues and partners in the doha round for a number of reasons: china cannot simply take 50% of the world market, it is the largest country in terms of us treasury bonds, it is a major financial power, it is a major technological power and it is a member of the security council. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of korea. that is one of the issues we have to deal with china. it is important that we know what measures the commission intends to propose after the meeting of the high level group on textiles and clothing to ensure an orderly transition in this very important sector.
acting president of the council. mr president, mrs morgantini, mr barón crespo, i think that the question you have asked is indeed related to the debate we have just had. if there is one sector that is in some ways at the forefront of globalisation, it is the textile sector. the extent to which the international division of labour has changed, particularly in the textile sector, has been evident for decades. you are indeed raising important issues which affect not only europe but also its partners, particularly those on the southern shore of the mediterranean, as evidenced by this morning's debate on the constant evolution of production and the relocation of textile production. i think this is a very important question. in recent years, the council has also been closely monitoring the situation of the european textile and clothing industry as it has developed following the abolition of quotas for imports of textiles and clothing from wto member countries. two sets of council conclusions, adopted in response to two communications presented by the commission in 2003 and 2004, bear witness to this concern. as regards, in general, the gradual transition to a quota-free environment, it should be noted that this is not an unforeseen event. in fact, as parliament certainly knows, the end of four decades of regulated trade in textiles and clothing is not at all a surprise. the establishment and expiry of the agreement on textiles and clothing is an integral part of the outcome of the uruguay round concluded in 1994. since then, it has been clear that as of 1 january 2005, the textiles and clothing sector would be fully integrated into the gatt 1994 article 9. all the players in the world, including of course the european textile and clothing industry, knew what to expect. the commission has adopted a series of seven actions to deal with this new environment without quotas. as the commissioner responsible for enterprise said when this plan was adopted, whether at union level or at national or regional level, we must provide the sector with the right conditions to strengthen its competitiveness and remain a key industry in the union, which is what you, mr president, have also asked for. in its conclusions of 25 and 26 november 2004, the council stated that it supported the strategy adopted by the commission with regard to the textile and clothing sector. this is mainly focused on competitiveness factors related to research and innovation, training and skills development, protection of intellectual property rights, access to third country markets and support for the development of strategies for the textile industry in the euro-mediterranean region. the council considers the commission's package of measures to be appropriate. the council also asked the commission to allow the high level group on textiles and clothing to continue its work. it also called on the commission to keep the council regularly informed of developments in the eu textile and clothing sector after the abolition of import quotas on 1 january 2005. it also invited the commission to report on the outcome of future discussions within the high level group. with regard to the recommendations of the high level group on the development of imports from china, which is indeed a primary concern, the council noted that the commission has stated its readiness to use the trade defence instruments at its disposal if the legal conditions are met and if such recourse is indeed necessary. i would add that our relations with china are indeed important in this particular area as well. we are concerned about integrating china into the rules of international trade. that is why we have done everything we can to get it to join the wto. it is now necessary to ensure that it respects these rules, but also other less formal rules, such as social protection or social standards. this is a matter we must discuss with this country. these legal conditions have recently been amended to translate the abolition of quotas into community law. the council adopted a regulation to that effect on 13 december 2004. council regulation 2200/2004 therefore marks the end of the agreement on textiles and clothing as far as the european union is concerned. the regulation also provides for a surveillance system to be set up as from 1 january 2005 to monitor imports of the most sensitive textiles and clothing. this system will provide for customs-based surveillance of imports of liberalised goods from all origins and will include the obligation to issue an import surveillance document for imports of certain products from china. this obligation will be lifted in 2005, once the surveillance system based on customs data is fully operational. this information will be made public at least once a month. as regards the use of safeguard measures, parliament considered in its resolution of january 2004 on the future of the textile and clothing sector in the union that a clear, rapid and transparent procedure was needed for the wto general safeguard clauses and the specific clauses applicable to china under the protocol of accession of china to the wto. the high level group also requested the commission to provide further clarifications on this matter. the commission seems to be ready to meet the expectations in this respect, as it will be drawing up guidelines for safeguard procedures. finally, as regards the consequences of the expiry of the agreement on textiles and clothing for developing countries and the measures that the european union could take under articles 177 and 178 of the treaty, let me first mention two of the three objectives of our development cooperation as set out in the treaty: the sustainable development of developing countries - and particularly the most disadvantaged among them - and the integration of the poorest countries into the world economy. the european union's trade policy clearly takes account of these objectives, as required by article 178 of the treaty. the design of the doha development round and the way the doha development agenda is being implemented are just another example. let me also remind you, more specifically with regard to the expiry of the agreement on textiles and clothing, that the end of quotas and the integration of trade in textiles and clothing into gatt was one of the main demands of the developing countries during the uruguay round. it is true that since joining the wto, china has seen its share of the world textile and clothing trade steadily increase. the continued growth of the already considerable chinese share could be at the expense of a number of weak and vulnerable developing countries, as was stressed by the honourable members. in this respect, the council has a clear line and i quote again the conclusions mentioned above: 'the council supports a gsp scheme which concentrates its effects on those countries which need it most, such as the least developed countries and the most vulnerable developing countries, in order to enable them to play a greater role in international trade.' in this context, the situation resulting from the exit from the quota system for textiles will also be examined in the context of the discussion of the new gsp scheme. the new gsp, known as gsp+, should in principle be finalised by the end of march and enter into force in anticipation at the beginning of april. this issue is also constantly addressed in the framework of the china-eu dialogue on textile trade, which was launched on 6 may 2004. at the last session of this dialogue in december 2004, the impression was first given that the chinese authorities had begun to understand the problem and the message of the european union, as they announced measures in favour of a number of developing countries. the degree of effectiveness of these measures remains to be seen. the council will continue to monitor closely all developments in this market. as regards measures to assist the european union's textile and clothing industry, the council urged the commission to focus more on the strategic sectors, namely innovation, including non-technological innovation, and the development of industrial cooperation with partners in the euro-mediterranean region. the emphasis should be on high value-added products on the one hand and on industrial cooperation with complementary partners in developing countries on the other. i would also add the opening up of markets, particularly the chinese market, for this type of european products. to complement this general approach, a certain degree of flexibility in the area of rules of origin should be envisaged. it would improve the situation of developing countries exporting textiles and clothing. the commission presented to the council, at the beginning of january 2004, a green paper entitled 'the future of rules of origin in preferential trade regimes'. the council will examine any legislative proposal which the commission may submit to it in due course in this field.
member of the commission. mr president, i think i can be brief, because my colleague in the council has already said all that needed to be said about the commission. i said some words. the wto agreement is of course a very important agreement and is signed on 31 december. therefore, it is now about to see how the effects that were to be seen can be reduced. the college has also already mentioned the measures of the commission which were actually adopted by the council, as they were addressed by barón crespo. i would also like to stress that it is very, very important to take measures to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting and piracy, to enforce intellectual property rights, to set up action plans for existing trade agreements in third countries, to promote high-technology and high-quality textiles and clothing, also in the framework of the eu programme for research and development, and to ensure lifelong learning and continuing vocational training. furthermore, it has already spoken about the monitoring procedures and imports of textile products and clothing into china. i would also like to say that peter mandelson, who is actually responsible for the dossier, is on his way to china, where he is going to discuss these questions. the protection measures already taken by the college are hereby extended. moreover, this can only happen if the legal conditions for their application in accordance with the wto rules are met. we must also take account of the impact of developments in trade on the particularly vulnerable textile and clothing products. it has also been mentioned that the commission and the wto are closely monitoring china's progress in implementing its wto commitments and are taking advantage of the opportunities available to them. the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to increase the supply of textile products. we are ready to support such measures. a study is currently being prepared for the acp states to examine the response strategies of the länder, which depend to a large extent on exports of textiles and clothing. the european investment bank could also offer such instruments. this is a matter of great importance to the community.
thank you very much, madam commissioner. you have indeed spoken a quarter of the council's time, but i do not interpret this from the presidency's point of view as a desire on the part of the council to waste the commission's time but as a desire on the part of the council to save the commission work, in the best spirit of interinstitutional cooperation.
on behalf of the group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fear that the abolition of the import quota system on 1 january will result in the loss of tens of thousands of jobs in the european textile industry. the sector, as already mentioned, currently employs more than two and a half million workers. the representatives of the sector do not seek to breach the agreement on textiles and clothing of january 1995, but to obtain recognition that the full accession of china to the world trade organization in 2001 has brought about an unforeseen and substantial change in the situation of the sector. it is therefore fully justified that the textile sector should receive special support from the union institutions as well as from the states and regional authorities. the commission and the council must give decisive support to the european textile industry so that it can gain access to new markets. china must be required to respect scrupulously all its commitments to the world trade organisation, but other countries, such as india, brazil, the united states of america and canada, must also remove the artificial technical and bureaucratic barriers they currently impose. the strategy proposed by the high level group on the textile sector also envisages important actions along very good lines. the sectors concerned are now calling for its urgent development and implementation. time is very important. the committee calls for a special focus on smes, which account for 90% of these industries, and for the creation of a flexibility reserve fund within the structural funds to meet the changes needed in the sector. the textile industry has been undertaking a major restructuring effort to ensure its competitiveness for years, but it now faces enormous challenges which cannot be left to its own devices.
mr president, the textiles and clothing sectors are very important in many areas of europe, particularly in catalonia. it involves more than 2 600 companies that employ over 72 000 workers. this year all the quotas and duties for wto countries must be completely phased out. therefore, these countries will have unrestricted access to eu markets. this could lead to dumping situations that will harm our economies. this could encourage businesses to relocate to other latitudes. i understand that such a phenomenon can only be addressed by pouring more money into research investment budgets. there are two possible objectives. first, to manufacture products of finer quality with added value that can compete with those from other countries, mainly china. second, to launch a unified european trade market, including a quality index. in addition to that, we need to develop a strategy that favours business concentration as a positive tool to make the sector more competitive and efficient. this would forestall the threat of business relocation. an active role by the eu is the best way to achieve social cohesion and the maintenance of the living standards we have come to expect in this part of the world.
acting president of the council. mr president, i will be very brief: i will simply take up the proposal to provide the committees concerned with more precise data, but i believe that this must be done with the commission. in the spirit of good interinstitutional cooperation, i will leave my time for replying to the commission, which is the first concerned, and i would simply say that the council of course shares all the concerns that have been expressed about the situation of the textile sector in the union, but also in a number of partner countries.
member of the commission. mr president, the textile industry is a very important economic factor for all of us in europe and, therefore, internal and external measures must be taken. we are working on a very comprehensive strategy. again, let me just mention a few points because this was a very complex and comprehensive debate. the commission has proposed several actions to enhance the competitiveness of the european textile industry in its second communication on the textile industries. the actions proposed include measures such as strengthening the fight against counterfeiting and piracy; enforcing intellectual property rights; establishing an action plan to address existing trade barriers in third countries; fostering advance technology and textiles and clothing with high added value under the eu's research and development programmes; and ensuring lifelong education and vocational training. second, the commission has established a system for monitoring imports of textiles and clothing products from china. however, it is too early to draw conclusions on monitoring. the textile high level group was unable to reach a conclusion in its june 2004 report on the 'made in the european union' mark of origin. the commission will come back to that and will draw up proposals at a later date. we will resort to safeguards only as a last resort. this includes the textiles-specific safeguard clause that was established in china's protocol of accession to the wto. this is an important and clearly proactive strategy. open international trade is also a key factor in the competitiveness of the economy as a whole. access to third-country markets allows for the creation of jobs in europe, which is also a key priority of the commission. we are therefore determined to do all it takes to achieve the objective of equal market access so that eu firms in these sectors can exploit their hard-earned know-how and quality. the commission will therefore draw up an action plan to address the barriers in third-country markets, and the doha development round will provide the opportunity to carry out a comprehensive review of all the alleged non-tariff barriers. finally, i shall say a few more words on china. commissioner mandelson is not here because he is currently visiting china, but i will tell him about today's comprehensive debate and maybe you can go into more detail with him, as the commissioner responsible for trade, at another time. i would like to emphasise again that the commission is monitoring closely china's compliance with the wto accession commitments, most notably in the framework of the eu-china textiles trade dialogue signed in may of last year by the trade commissioner and his chinese counterpart. additionally, in the framework of other dialogues between the commission and the chinese authorities, the commission has requested that the issue of the sustainable development of the textile sector, and in particular the question of corporate social responsibility, be put on the agenda. the commission hopes that this will contribute to having the rather strict chinese labour and environmental laws properly enforced. we are also conducting a study, which will be finalised shortly, on working and other manufacturing conditions in the textile and clothing sector in china. in line with the council's presidency conclusions from 2003, the european union is committed to promoting respect for core labour standards through trade relations with third countries. the last point i would like to make is about the proposed guidelines on the textile safeguard clause for china. this is still under preparation. the commission wants to examine all sides of the issue thoroughly before taking a final decision. the commission is reluctant to do something that would more or less pave the way for the easy introduction of safeguards. the commission does not want the guidelines to be a vehicle to facilitate or prompt safeguard action, but one that prevents recourse to safeguards. the commission would like these guidelines to introduce transparency in the handling of the requests for safeguards that may be made, but it would also like them to introduce greater predictability in trade, for instance by providing some safe zones, generously established and providing for very large expansion possibilities below which we would not consider safeguard action.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
on behalf of the group. mr potočnik, the greens welcome the new impetus you want to give to research and support this substantial boost to european research. however, we are not only concerned about the budget, but also about social and environmental objectives, because we all want a bigger pie, but what matters first of all are the ingredients of the pie and how it is cooked and, last but not least, how this european research pie is distributed. we want open science, with a fluid transfer of knowledge open to all sectors of society and, in this context, we are concerned that some patents may be an obstacle to innovation in the case of small and/or young enterprises. at the same time, we want research where small is beautiful, where smes, small laboratories and small universities are given priority in european programmes. in this context, we want to create clusters, groups of small businesses at european level so that all research is not concentrated on a few projects. in the field of research, we must encourage a return to the basics, to the fundamentals, so that basic scientific research can be supported openly and with more funds. more public support for basic research is needed, with medium- and long-term social and environmental objectives, not just short-term technological performance. in this sense, more investment must also be made in preventive health and not just in pharmaceutical research, as has happened in the past. we must also invest in climate protection and not allocate all or much of our energy investment to nuclear programmes. at the moment, renewable energy needs support at least as high as that of the iter or euratom programmes. we welcome mr potočnik's projects to support the social sciences, which are essential for the advancement of research in our society. finally, i would like to call for the creation of an independent european research council, with the participation of all the social partners, so that there can be a really fruitful debate, a dialogue, between society and the scientific world.
mr president, mr potočnik, i too would like to thank you for your comprehensive reply. achieving the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy by 2010 will undoubtedly require a commitment to substantially improve the resources devoted to r & d, which is the central axis of a knowledge-based economy and therefore the main tool for promoting growth, employment and competitiveness. we therefore share the wisdom of placing the union's science policy at the centre of the strategy for the coming years, and the idea of setting overall r & d expenditure at 3% of the union's gdp, and of course i agree with most of the speakers who have come before me. i'd like to add something else. it is certainly very important to reduce the technological gap between the union and countries such as the united states, but it is equally true that there is another important technological gap between the various countries within the union, which must also be reduced. in this sense, our aim must be to improve the competitiveness of the union as a whole, to reduce the gap with the most technologically advanced countries, but to do so in such a way that this does not increase the differences in technological capacity between our various countries. it is therefore very important, commissioner, to take concrete measures to improve the capacity of the countries which have so far been less involved in the framework programme. we ask you, commissioner, to commit yourself to reducing the internal technological gap which undoubtedly exists in our union too.
mr president, commissioner, the great potential for european aid to the countries concerned must be mobilised as soon as possible and, as you have acknowledged, this parliament has complied by approving urgency. however, we also believe that it is important to do things quickly, but do them well. in this respect, we cannot but welcome the provision of humanitarian aid to the affected fishing sector, but we do not think that the most appropriate option is to use the transfer of vessels method alone. the commissioner says that she agrees with the spirit of many of the amendments; we would have liked the commission to have put forward a complete package of measures to alleviate the problems in this sector and we believe that the method which has been put forward is not appropriate, as it has been rejected by the ngos working in the area, who have welcomed this proposal with great reservations, the fao itself has stated that our good intentions may aggravate the problem rather than solve it and, to my knowledge, two countries have already said that they do not want the shipment of boats, even some of them have extreme limitations, such as, for example, the ban on making boats of more than 10 horsepower. it is not enough, therefore, to ensure that we do not send large ships, as the proposal suggests, but we must send suitable ships to the area, designed to anchor on shallow beaches and with materials that are resistant to, among other elements, high tropical temperatures and humidity. there is also the other problem, the financing, which we were guaranteed to solve. and here, as the commissioner has very well said, there is no extra funding, so this burden will be passed on to countries which are already committed to an ifop, and i very much doubt that this proposal can even be half effective. for all these reasons, we ask that the amendments tabled by the majority of these groups, which we have all signed and will support, and which are amendments proposing other alternatives and which also propose to give substance to the european commission's proposal, be understood as a political message that this parliament sends to the european commission and the council, and which i hope will be effective in the coming weeks.
member of the commission. mr president, you will not be surprised to hear that the commission strongly disagrees with the conclusion that has just been reached. there was probably a little too much noise in this house earlier to hear what the commission said at the end of the debate. (applause from the centre) as for the cost, i want to repeat what i said for all to hear. there is no cost per ship of 47,000 or 50,000 or 100,000 euros. anyway, these are boats whose owners get a premium for tearing them up. now, the final destination of these boats -- and that's where it changes -- is not tearing, but transfer. the transfer of a boat costs a maximum of 4,000 euros, and these are boats whose size makes it impossible to build them in the field. finally, we only deliver such vessels when there are requests. right now, we have a request from thailand.
mr president, i would like to put an oral amendment to amendment no 7 tabled by the socialist group, which we are going to vote on. this, mr president, is a very important amendment and will determine, together with others, the final assessment which our political group will make of this important report on the forthcoming meeting of the commission on human rights in geneva. as this is an amendment tabled by the socialist group, i have spoken to mr howitt instead of the author, who is not present in the chamber, and i have proposed that, in order to facilitate a favourable position for our group, we should concentrate on the second part of this amendment and delete the first. mr president, i am simply putting forward an option on behalf of my group, and i believe that this option is shared by the authors of the amendment. of course, there are political groups which have the right to oppose it, but we also have the right to vote against the report. and so i am offering, mr president, this opening to try to get the house to unite on this report. i think that the substance of the amendment is saved, although our group is against it, and that it can be a reasonable solution so that our group can vote in favour of the resolution in the end.
mr president, that is precisely what this is about. i understand that there will be a majority in favour of this proposal. we are obviously opposed to this. but in these terms, i think that, in the end, if the balance of the rest of the vote on the amendments is positive, our group could consider a favourable position.
ladies and gentlemen, the court is in session.
yes, mr tajani, we will certainly convey your suggestion, which i think is very appropriate, to the president's office immediately and we will tell the president that the house would like this message of support and solidarity with the holy father to be conveyed at this time.
the six motions for resolutions on togo are now under discussion.
member of the commission. mr president, as the honourable members know, the commission is following the situation in togo very closely. moreover, it is a country where european union aid has been suspended since 1992, and the unconstitutional seizure of power, known as hereditary dictatorship, has put into question the hopes of normalising relations with that country that we could have had at the end of last year. the european union has reacted strongly by condemning what must be considered a coup d'état and calling for the return to constitutional order and respect for the principles of the rule of law. commissioner louis michel, on behalf of the commission, expressed a very firm position. so everything we do and say supports the action of the ecowas and the african union, which have been exemplary in dealing with the togolese crisis. the actions of the international community had a first effect, as mr gnassingbé agreed on 18 february to hold presidential elections within the time limits laid down in the constitution. but we must also denounce the violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the days following the seizure of power. demonstrations were banned and many radio and television stations were closed. the first demonstration was violently suppressed, pressures were exerted on journalists, arbitrary arrests were reported. it was under international pressure that the togolese government began to back down. the right to protest was restored on 18 february and some radio stations were able to broadcast again from 21 february. so, mr president, as regards cooperation, and particularly the ninth edf, the commission is sticking to the conclusions of the consultations contained in the council decision of 15 november 2004. new cooperation will only be possible after free and transparent parliamentary elections have been held, and it is clear that this will now be supplemented by presidential elections, which are part of the process of returning to the rule of law. there will therefore be no resumption of european union aid outside this framework. the council decision of 15 november also provided for a partial resumption of cooperation. all the projects concerned are de facto suspended until the situation is clarified. for the remnants of the previous edfs, which financed projects, the commission intends to organise support for the presidential and parliamentary elections, if the government shows a willingness to organise them in a sound and transparent manner and if the available time allows. as regards the proposal for targeted sanctions, the european union stated in its statement of 20 february that it reserved the right to take measures to support the action of the cedaw. in general, the commission supports parliament's draft resolution, which is in line with the proposal and position adopted by the european union and defended by the commission.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
the six motions for resolutions on nepal are now under debate.
the state of emergency declared by king gyanendra on 1 february is a clear threat to human rights in nepal, as it has strengthened the power of the security forces and reduced the prospects for a political peace process. but it should also be remembered that although the european union's code of conduct on arms exports explicitly prohibits sales to countries in armed conflict, some european governments, such as the uk, have sold arms to the nepalese government over the past three years. ladies and gentlemen, the resolution we are voting on today is of vital importance in clarifying the european union's position on the peace process and human rights in nepal. given the gravity of the situation, the decision of london and the indian government to suspend all military aid to the present nepalese government should be welcomed. the european union also calls on the government of sri lanka to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in sri lanka is brought under control. the european union must also urge the maoist guerrillas to commit themselves to respecting international humanitarian law and to sign a humanitarian and human rights agreement with the government security forces. fourthly, in accordance with the resolution we adopted this morning on the forthcoming session of the united nations commission on human rights, we must also urge the commission to adopt a specific resolution on nepal and to appoint a special rapporteur to monitor the human rights situation in that country. finally, echoing mr mann's invitation - with which i fully agree - we must not forget that the situation in nepal has a regional dimension, particularly in relation to neighbouring tibet. in this connection, we must demand that the nepalese government reopen the office for the welfare of tibetan refugees and the representation of the dalai lama in kathmandu.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission is gravely concerned about the sharp deterioration in the political situation in nepal since 1 february. i do not have to tell members of this parliament how important the respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law are in our relations with third countries. the presidency’s declaration of 2 february is very clear: the european union views the king's move as a serious setback for the prospect of a negotiated and democratically-based solution to the current conflict. the european union troika, which visited nepal only two months ago, expressed at that time its grave concerns at the rapidly deteriorating human rights situation. since 1 february, nepal has been experiencing a profound human rights crisis, as many parliamentarians have now underlined. the united nations has recorded more than 340 detentions of political leaders, journalists, human rights defenders and civil society activists. we, the european union, will continue to press for the release of all those who remain arbitrarily detained, and we will use the opportunity of the forthcoming session of the united nations commission on human rights in geneva to remind both sides to the conflict of their obligations under international law. as members may be aware, no european union position has yet been taken on the issue of continued external assistance to nepal, because the situation is very complex. the commission's global approach to conflict prevention calls for us to ensure that community instruments and programmes are directed towards achieving political and social stability and democracy. as we have frequently stated, development policy and other cooperation programmes provide the most powerful instruments at the community's disposal for treating the root causes of conflict. we have learned that conflict countries sometimes require more, rather than less, assistance, and applying blunt political conditions risks penalising the weakest in society. that is why we think that the basic objectives of ec cooperation remain achievable. indeed, the priorities of support to poverty reduction, human rights and conflict mitigation are more urgent in the new environment. now is not the time for us, for instance, to cancel our support to nepal's national human rights commission, provided this institution continues to operate as an autonomous and independent technical body, seeking to promote the rule of law. however, this does not mean that it is 'business as usual' in terms of donor support to nepal, not least because of the new constraints faced in ensuring that all sides respect the donors' basic operational guidelines in the state of emergency as the conflict escalates. therefore, the commission has taken the following position. the delegation of the european commission in kathmandu will not accept any high level invitations from the king or from any of his cabinet ministers unless instructed otherwise by its headquarters. all ongoing ec cooperation activities are carefully reviewed and the situation in the field is constantly monitored. for the time being, activities continue but new appraisals or identification missions will not be launched for the preparation of the 2005 cooperation pipeline until further notice. the commission maintains extensive contacts on this issue with member states and with other donors on the ground, and will participate in a meeting of like-minded donors during the week of 7 march in europe to continue to seek a coordinated line. as ever in such situations, the cost of conflict falls heaviest on the weakest in nepalese society. i am thinking of the children denied schooling or forcibly recruited, the poor deprived of basic healthcare and shelter and the many victims of brutal violence. whilst the primary responsibility for resolving the conflict in nepal rests with the local actors, we must not abandon them now. working closely with the european union member states and especially with successive european union council presidencies, the commission remains committed to pursuing all diplomatic, political, and developmental efforts that might facilitate the peace process and a return to democracy in nepal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on the special court for sierra leone in the charles taylor case.
member of the commission. mr president, the resolution before the house summarises the background to this question very well. charles taylor is indicted for heinous crimes, including extermination, murder, rape, enslavement, inhuman acts, crimes against humanity. the resolution also recognises the importance of the pacification process in the region, a process led and implemented by african countries and organisations. it has been said several times in this house that it is very important that african nations themselves take the cleaning up of the continent in hand. the crimes charles taylor is accused of are terrible and have led interpol to add his name to the list of the most wanted criminals in the world. taylor's challenge to the special court's indictment on the ground of presidential immunity was an insult to those who suffered the atrocities. taylor's alleged interference in liberia's economic and political life, and his openly expressed desire to return to the country, represent a threat to the continuation of peace-building in liberia and to this year's electoral process. the non-execution of the arrest warrant issued by the special court undermines the legitimacy of this court. the special court of sierra leone, unlike the international courts for yugoslavia and rwanda, was not granted a mandate under chapter vii of the united nations charter requiring all un member states to comply with the court orders. making the special court successful, therefore, needs the cooperative attitude of all countries hosting criminals. the commission formally supports efforts by the european union to ensure the handing over of taylor to the court. the latest un initiative was during the high-level troika meeting with nigeria in december. nigeria's position has been as follows, and i quote: 'there cannot be impunity for taylor. however he is currently a guest of the nigerian government and he will be handed over to the first democratically elected liberian government asking for his extradition'. the commission believes that eu offers have to continue and we must make it clear that at some point - and we hope that this point is not too far away - charles taylor will have to go to trial. it is also vital that effective initiatives are taken in nigeria and elsewhere to stop taylor from continuing to interfere in liberian affairs and destabilise other countries in the region.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time.
we shall then consider this request as being made by a political group and we shall proceed to vote on this joint motion for a resolution by roll-call vote, with mr deva's oral amendment incorporated.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 24 february 2005.
ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this sitting i would like to make a statement to you on topical and urgent subjects which have been raised by some members of this parliament. ladies and gentlemen, last thursday the conference of presidents of the political groups unanimously adopted a statement on the situation of journalists in iraq which i was to read to you today. this statement was the result of meetings i had with french and italian media representatives, european journalists held hostage in iraq and representatives of the organization reporters without borders. the conference of presidents issued this statement, which was covered in a very prominent way in the european media. shortly afterwards, on friday afternoon, we received with great joy the news of the release of giuliana sgrena. this joy was soon overshadowed by the death of nicola calipari, who died tragically while protecting giuliana with his own body. today we recognize the courage and sense of duty that led nicola calipari to carry out his mission to its ultimate consequences. in his homage i would like to join the italian authorities today, in particular the italian presidents ciampi and berlusconi, who have asked the american authorities to shed light on the tragic circumstances in which nicola calipari lost his life. as in other similar circumstances, we need to know how and why these tragic events have occurred. this morning, all of italy has paid a posthumous national tribute. i would like our assembly to join the italian people in expressing our solidarity and closeness to his family at this painful time. today, giuliana is back among us and enjoying freedom, but she has to continue the mobilization to obtain the release of florence aubenas and her guide-interpreter hussein hanun al-saadi. they remain in captivity, held by those who reject the right to information and therefore to democracy. his portraits will be on display at the entrance to our house from today. they are the graphic testimony of our solidarity. the european parliament wishes them to be reunited with their families and colleagues as soon as possible. in these circumstances, the european parliament must once again affirm that there is no democracy without freedom of information and that the safety of journalists must be protected in all parts of the world. all measures must be taken to enable the media to carry out their mission, in particular in areas of armed conflict, including iraq. and after this statement on these current events, both painful and happy, i must make another statement on what we can call historical commemorations. as you know, centuries of fratricidal wars between our countries have marked our memory. as president of the european parliament i am often asked for a minute's silence to commemorate events which remind us of the saddest part of our past. just a few days ago, our polish colleagues asked me to remember, through a minute of silence, the massacre at katyn, miednoye and kharkov, where 14 000 polish officers were executed in cold blood by stalin's regime on 5 march 1940. this is a legitimate request and it is our duty not to forget these events or their victims. but every day, the history of our continent - a tragic and tormented history - will bring us, at random on the calendar, the memory of sad events for each of our countries. that is because europe has been divided by wars in which millions of our fellow citizens have died. but even if we should remember the past - and we do - the conference of presidents last week agreed not to hold a minute's silence or to make statements systematically in each plenary session whenever the memory brings us to the memory of a painful event. our present history, our reunification, must help us to overcome these events of the past and to bear in mind that the consolidation of peace and democracy, values of the european union, must serve to prevent them from happening again. finally, i hope that all my colleagues will understand the resolution we have adopted on this subject, but i cannot fail to mention the police repression of women who were celebrating international women's day in istanbul ahead of time. i have issued a press release before entering this plenary session in which i strongly condemn these acts and call on the turkish government to impose exemplary sanctions on events which are certainly not the best presentation for its hypothetical accession to the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
the final draft agenda for this part-session, which was adopted by the conference of presidents on thursday 3 march, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131. monday: no request for amendment has been submitted. tuesday:i have received two requests for statements from the commission. on the one hand, the green group/european free alliance has asked the commission to make a statement on its position on services in the internal market. the commission is prepared to make such a statement and we could discuss this point tomorrow, tuesday, from 6 to 6.30 p.m., with a communication from commissioner mccreevy, followed by questions and answers by the famous and well-known catch-the-eye procedure. the socialist group in the european parliament has also requested that commissioner mccreevy make a statement on the software patent directive at the same time tomorrow, tuesday, followed by at least a turn of the political groups. the green group has also called for the council and commission statement on the detention of health professionals in libya to be replaced by a council and commission statement on software patents on wednesday. it is clear that these requests are largely incompatible with each other. we can't approve all of them. we cannot discuss two different things at the same time, so i shall have to put to the vote the requests for amendments to the agenda in the order in which i have received them. if any of them were adopted, we would not have to vote on the following ones, because they would be in clear contradiction to the decision we would have adopted. i shall therefore put to the vote, with my arm raised, of course, the request from the green group for the commission to make a statement on its position on services in the internal market.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a reply. i think we should put to the vote an amendment to the agenda for tomorrow, from 6 p.m. to 6.45 p.m., for the commission to make a statement on the two items raised, namely services in the internal market and the software patent directive, which at the moment have a larger number of petitions in favour.
it's a complicated issue. what we're going to do next is a decision of the president that i'm going to go ahead and execute next. we shall now move to the vote on the request for a statement by the commission tomorrow on services in the internal market and then, whatever the outcome of this vote, i shall put to the vote the proposal for a statement by the commission tomorrow on software patents. if both are approved, we will hold them jointly from 6 p.m. to 6:45 p.m. i put to the vote the proposal for a statement by the commission on services in the internal market:
mrs frassoni, we voted on a proposal for a commission communication to take place tomorrow. we are now going to vote on another proposal for a commission communication on software patents to be held tomorrow. the vote is open. (the proposal was approved) therefore, tomorrow from 6 p.m. to 6.45 p.m. the commission will make a statement on the two subjects we have discussed.
what rule of the rules of procedure are you referring to?
mr. deputy, please sit down. you don't have the floor. wednesday: the group of the european people's party and the socialist group have tabled a request that the entire morning of wednesday be devoted to the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy and that the debate be extended until 12.30 p.m. the agenda could be as follows: 9.00 to 12.30 a.m., mid-term review of the lisbon strategy. at 12.30 p.m. the vote will take place. the european council also welcomed the commission's intention to continue its work on the drafting of the european union strategy for the mediterranean.
between 3 and 5.30 p.m. we were to discuss two statements by the council and the commission on the european council in brussels and on the detained medical professionals in libya. (the motion was adopted) fortunately, we have no amendment proposal for thursday's sitting. (parliament adopted the agenda as amended)
in accordance with rule 144 of the rules of procedure, the one-minute speaking time on matters of political importance is now open.
thank you very much, mr. congressman. you will understand that changes to the agenda are always conflicting and controversial; i have to take up requests from the political groups through their spokesmen.
thank you very much, mr. congressman. i shall be receiving the cuban foreign minister at 7.30 p.m. tomorrow. i can assure you that i take very good note of your request that i convey it to the minister.
mr president, i would like to echo a manifesto presented by 157 teachers in the public education system of the basque country who are affected by a decree of the basque government which means the loss of the job they have been developing for more than 15 years, because they have not passed a certain level of the basque language, co-official language with spanish and in which the subject they teach is taught. they are subject to linguistic discrimination which places political considerations above professional qualifications. they suffer a comparative burden compared to other teachers' groups and other departments of the public administration. it is regrettable that the basque government, in its intransigence, is forcing these teachers to leave the basque public system, without recognising the professional work they have done, or offering a palliative solution.
mr president, i would like to join mrs dührkop dührkop in denouncing in this house that 157 teachers in the basque country, 157 workers with more than 15 years of work and educational experience, may lose their jobs because of linguistic problems, because they do not speak a language. the basque government, headed by mr ibarretxe, wants to discriminate against, corner and expel from the administration these basque teachers. this constitutes a scandalous case of linguistic and educational apartheid, contrary to the spanish constitution, the statute of guernica, the european constitutional treaty itself and the charter of human rights itself, since the right to work is a right of the people and these teachers are going to be deprived of it, by nationalist decree, despite their work and educational experience. what the basque government is doing, ladies and gentlemen, is not based on pedagogical or academic criteria but on ideological and political criteria, xenophobic and exclusionary, as set out in the ibarretxe plan. the europe of freedom, solidarity and equality must therefore ensure that such unfortunate cases are not repeated in any territory of our european union.
thank you very much, mrs. gomes. you will have noticed that in the opening statement of the presidency i referred to this matter and to the press release i issued on behalf of all of you.
thank you, congressman. i take good note of your request. we'll set a course.
we have to finish this shift. many members and i myself are dissatisfied with the catch-the-eye procedure. i understand everyone who asks for the floor, but i can't give it to them. we must find some procedure by which this we are doing creates some more satisfaction. i understand everyone, but i have half an hour and i try to be balanced in the allocation of the floor; i know that after each sitting there are more members who are angry with the president. we must find a procedure so that this shift can be carried out with a more acceptable criterion for all. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
the next item is the report (a6-0032/2005) by mr alain lipietz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the 2003 activity report of the european investment bank (ini) (2004/2187).
i declare the 2005/06 session of the european parliament open.
the court is in session.
i would like to welcome mr solomon passy, minister for foreign affairs of bulgaria, who is visiting parliament today and is in the official gallery. this visit, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, is an important step in the accession process and in strengthening the ties between bulgaria and the european parliament. we all know that on 13 april we will be voting here in strasbourg on bulgaria's accession. if parliament gives its assent and the treaty of accession is signed on 25 april in luxembourg, as planned, we shall be very pleased to welcome first the bulgarian observers and then the members to this house. i wish you a pleasant stay in the european parliament, mr minister. (applause) i would like to thank
today, ladies and gentlemen, we are commemorating international women's day. we have been doing so for over 90 years, but despite this commemoration, millions of women worldwide continue to be the victims of gender discrimination and all kinds of abuse every day, in times of peace and in times of war. they continue to be victims of physical, psychological, sexual and economic violence, sometimes from their immediate emotional environment. only a few days ago we saw the tremendous footage of turkish riot police against a demonstration of women who were celebrating today in advance. i had the opportunity yesterday to express in plenary the condemnation that these acts deserve. i have asked the turkish government to punish the perpetrators of these unqualified acts and i would like to remind you that this is certainly not the best presentation letter for turkey in the face of its hypothetical accession. ladies and gentlemen, the united nations is hosting the world conference on gender equality until 11 march to review the progress made since the beijing conference in 1995, ten years ago. as you know, a delegation from our parliament is taking a very active part in this conference, as it did in 1995. since then, there is no doubt that progress has been made. kofi annan acknowledged this in his opening speech at the beijing + 10 conference, but there are still enormous problems, enormous challenges, which should not be considered as unsolvable, nor should we regard today's celebration as a symbolic day to wash our bad conscience. this afternoon we'll be holding a debate on "cultural and domestic violence" with personalities and specialized press. i would like to invite you all to this seminar/debate, and when i say "everyone" i mean in the masculine, because normally, at events dealing with women's issues, men are usually apparently absent. we must be aware that the problem of gender equality is not a women's problem, it is a problem for women and for society as a whole, and men need to be more involved in solving it. today, in europe, one in five women claims to have been the victim of ill-treatment, one in five. and this proportion, unfortunately, is increasing in many countries. in the rich, democratic, developed and cohesive european union, poverty is becoming more and more feminized. there are worrying signs of a feminization of poverty. women still receive, on average, 16% less pay than their male colleagues for the same work. this point must also be dealt with in the so-called lisbon strategy, which does not offer too positive figures either. for this reason, in this parliament we have introduced a member in each parliamentary committee responsible for monitoring gender issues, which cannot be dealt with in isolation, in a kind of conceptual ghetto, but must affect all policies horizontally. this term will also be marked by the ratification of the constitution, which includes, with great success, gender equality as one of the objectives and values of the union. but, above all texts and declarations, let us be aware that equality will not be effective as long as male mentality does not radically evolve, overcoming anthropological inheritances that sometimes sink deep into customs and consciences, as long as employers do not propose equal wages, as long as concrete advantages are not offered to make it easier for women to exercise a professional activity or to prevent or compensate for the disadvantages that in their professional careers are associated with the fulfillment of a function that only they can do, human reproduction. we will not solve the demographic problems in europe if we do not solve the problems of equality with women, for women. the day when all the member states implement the declaration on article iii-116 of the constitution and take the necessary measures to punish criminal acts, because we are dealing with criminal acts of gender-based violence, we will have taken a great step forward. i would like this parliament to have absolute gender parity. but i would like it to be so, not because a rule imposes it, but because the equal distribution of capacities between men and women is reflected in our social and political practices. nor do we think that the best indicator for measuring equality between men and women is the percentage of women in the national parliaments. inequality is most vicious and severe in the lowest strata of society, where the accumulation of painful working conditions with family burdens is most difficult for women. i therefore reiterate my invitation to you to follow the events taking place today in the european parliament, which is joining in the commemoration of this day with the greatest enthusiasm. (applause) the next item is the debate on the oral questions to the council (b6-0015/2005) and the commission (b6-0016/2005) on the follow-up to the fourth world conference on women, platform for action (beijing + 10).
mr president, there is no doubt that since the adoption of the beijing platform for action, progress has been made in relation to women's rights, laws have been changed, equality policies have been formulated and feminist discourse is being increasingly assimilated by society. but it is also true, unfortunately, that in many areas the reality is still far from what our laws stipulate and what our declarations proclaim. moreover, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen in new york these days, if we had not been attentive, the path we have so hardly travelled could have easily been undone by the negative influence of ultraconservative forces and religious fundamentalism, particularly as regards human rights and women's sexual and reproductive rights. fortunately, the beijing + 10 final declaration reaffirms the beijing platform for action in its entirety. this achievement was also a success for those who negotiated on behalf of the european union, and i would like to acknowledge the good work of the luxembourg presidency. but it's very little to achieve simply by not going backwards. we must move much faster in the direction we have set ourselves, we have the tools; it is only a matter of political will to do so and the european union must lead this way. commissioner, madam minister, our framework strategy on equality between men and women and the accompanying programme ends this year. i would like to point out once again that without a new framework strategy it will be much more difficult for us to make progress. we must also urge our member states to take further action in those areas which are their responsibility. in this connection, i would like to make a special mention today of the 53 measures adopted last friday by the socialist government of my country - spain - to promote equality between men and women.
mr president, we are celebrating this day, 8 march, with the continuation of the follow-up to the beijing platform this year, following the meeting in new york. but we are positive and also ambitious and that is why, from the people's party, we want action to tackle the problem of women's unequal opportunities, for example in employment. we want a european union which actually supports women, which promotes flexibility in working hours or the valuation of pay by objectives in the member states, which allows parental leave to be taken according to the choice of the couple, which extends and extends measures such as the current child benefit granted by spain, which facilitates the construction of day nurseries, which relieves the burden on companies, or which establishes higher benefits for companies with family responsibilities. we are appalled and outraged by violence against women, prostitution, trafficking in women and human trafficking in general. we find that morally unacceptable and socially shameful. women's rights are human rights. we are in favour of the development of the states and we recognise the progress that is being made. we find such regrettable events as the one in istanbul these days reprehensible. women are the foundation of the family and any affront to women is a direct affront to the family, the foundation of our society.
mr president, i should like to begin by pointing out the negative assessment which, in general terms, i think i deserve of the report presented by mrs figueiredo, given that its content is contrary to the economic and social policy advocated by the people's party. it is true that the text has been improved in the committee on employment and social affairs, but it is also true that it still maintains a tone that clearly favors interventionism, relegating, forgetting and putting into the background everything that is important for the economic and social development of the union, such as private initiative, the market or competition policy. it is, in short, a report that is committed to policies and prescriptions that the european left has traditionally defended. our first amendment therefore seeks to highlight the important role of private enterprise in the development of the union. as regards paragraph 1, which has been commented on by other rapporteurs, i think its wording is particularly misguided, since it seems to suggest that the european union's unemployment problems are due to the stability pact, the lisbon strategy, the internal market or competition policy. in my view, these are precisely the factors which must be strengthened if we are to achieve growth, job creation and greater social cohesion in the union. and this is the case, as has been demonstrated, for example, in my country, spain, where, in recent years, an economic policy based on balancing public accounts, reducing taxes and developing liberalizing reforms in key sectors of the economy has allowed the creation of five million jobs. the problem, as acknowledged by the high level group chaired by wim kok, is that some member states are not committed to the reforms needed to develop strategies, not the strategy itself. finally, with the other amendments, we only want this parliament to reflect its concern for young people in view of the fact that they have difficulty accessing the labour market and the need to remove administrative and fiscal barriers for european entrepreneurs. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, thank you for inviting me to address parliament on the subject of the generalised system of preferences and its reform. the gsp is a key instrument to put trade at the service of development by helping stimulate developing country exports to the european union. the current system will be improved in four principal ways. first, the gsp will be simplified. second, the product coverage will be expanded. third, the benefits will be focused on those developing countries that are most in need. fourth, additional gsp benefits – gsp+ – will be available for the first time to those countries that encourage sustainable development. the new gsp scheme is simpler to comprehend. it comes in only three forms: the general arrangement; everything but arms for less-developed countries, which remains unchanged; and a new special arrangement to promote sustainable development and good governance. the graduation process will be clearer, simpler and fairer. graduation – the exclusion of competitive products from gsp benefits – will not be applied annually any more, but over the three-and-a-half year period of the regulation. this will bring greater stability and much more predictability. the new gsp scheme is a clear example of an integrated approach to trade policy and sustainable development and i am sure will be welcomed by members here for that reason. the new incentive for sustainable development and governance will support our commitment to core human and labour rights and environmental protection in the framework of our existing trade policy. the reformed gsp will be a more effective tool to foster export diversification and economic growth for countries most in need: for example, vulnerable countries like honduras; poorly diversified economies like georgia; small islands like sri lanka; and landlocked countries like mongolia. my aim is to get this simpler, better scheme into force more rapidly. following the tsunami, the commission has been keen to act quickly to provide relief for the countries affected in the indian ocean. the new gsp will provide better access for some of the countries worst affected by the tsunami, and we want to accelerate its entry into force on 1 april. the countries that bore the brunt of the tsunami disaster will benefit most from the new scheme. sri lanka will receive duty-free access to the eu for almost all its exports, including vital textile and clothing exports. india, indonesia and thailand will benefit from reduced duties and wider product coverage, especially on crucial seafood exports. in parallel, the commission is working on simplifying and, where appropriate, relaxing the rules of origin in order to make gsp preferences provide the poorest with more benefit. the commission will complete the revision of the gsp rules of origin as soon as possible. let me turn to the amendments proposed by parliament commission’s position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. overall, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr sánchez presedo, and the committee on international trade, for the excellent work done in a tight timeframe. i welcome the fact that the conclusions in the report adopted by that committee on 22 february are broadly supportive of the commission proposal. more specifically, the committee has highlighted the need for an evaluation of the functioning and impact of the current gsp scheme. the commission is currently working on an impact assessment of the gsp on beneficiary countries during the five-year period from 1999 to 2003 and we should deliver a final report to parliament by the end of the summer. furthermore, i am also ready to report to the european parliament annually on the impact assessment of the new gsp. let me turn to some detailed points. the commission is ready to accept amendment 47, tabled by the committee on international trade, according to which ‘the commission shall, in close cooperation with member states, monitor the imports of [some sensitive tuna] products’. however, i am not persuaded by the committee’s proposal to lower the graduation threshold for textiles and clothing products. this would exclude india from the gsp for those products. india is one of the countries that bore the brunt of the indian ocean tsunami disaster and where 300 million people still live on a dollar a day or less. the time and circumstances are not right to make this change, as it would adversely affect india. in this context, therefore, a decision such as this does not seem justified. member states are divided on the issue: some wish to decrease this threshold, others support a higher one. the commission proposal for a 12.5% threshold is a fair compromise between these two positions. then there are proposals that affect the eligibility of specific countries. the committee proposes a specific clause for el salvador. this would imply granting gsp+ to a country that has not ratified a maximum of two ilo conventions due to constitutional constraints, but undertakes to ratify and implement them as quickly as possible. i think you will agree that any ad hoc clause which downgrades two ilo conventions runs counter to the eu policy of promoting core labour standards. on 4 march this year the council adopted its conclusions on the social dimension of globalisation, which ‘recall its commitment to promote core labour standards and note the importance of the revision of the gsp in this context’. furthermore, up to now, el salvador has not shown any movement towards the ratification and implementation of the two missing ilo conventions – on freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. the committee also recommends a revised definition of the gsp+ vulnerability criterion, which would make pakistan eligible. let me remind members of this house of some of the history of this. in the wake of 9/11 we decided to grant the benefits of the gsp drug regime to pakistan. following the wto panel launched by india against the gsp drug regime, additional tariff preferences can only be granted to countries facing specific trade, financial, or development needs. accordingly, the selection of gsp+ beneficiaries is to be based on clear, transparent and non-discriminatory criteria. any specific clause for pakistan would represent a de facto discrimination. it would therefore make us vulnerable to challenge and i do not want to risk triggering another wto case against the new gsp scheme that would not only affect pakistan, but every other developing country that was a beneficiary of gsp+. we should also bear in mind that pakistan is one of the largest gsp beneficiaries, whereas gsp+ is targeted at the most vulnerable countries, in particular the smallest ones which represent less than 1% of gsp-covered trade flows. but i would like to stress that pakistan will not be disadvantaged. it will enjoy favourable treatment in the new scheme, as it will benefit from reduced duties for all its exports to the eu market. in conclusion, i believe that the new gsp scheme opens good market access opportunities for developing countries. it is simpler, it is more predictable and covers a broader range of products. by ensuring its wto compatibility, it will provide legal security to our trading partners and on that basis i commend it to this house.
the european union has been a pioneer in establishing the generalized system of preferences. since 1971, following the recommendation of the united nations conference on trade and development, it has been granting non-reciprocal preferential treatment to developing countries, which currently benefits 177 countries, 50 of which are among the least developed. the european union imports more gsp-covered products than all other developed countries combined and three times as much as the second. the first gsp regulation of the 21st century should reaffirm the european union's leadership in promoting trade and sustainable development in the world. the declaration of the fourth ministerial conference of the world trade organisation, held in doha in 2001, recognised that international trade could play a greater role in promoting economic development and poverty reduction. the new regulation is the first to be adopted by the european union of 25. it gives access to a market of more than 450 million people, which can be even larger with the accession of two new member states. the opportunity arises from the need to revise the special drug regime, taking into account the requirements of the world trade organisation's april 2004 report, which should become effective on 1 july this year. the rapporteur welcomes the council's consultation of parliament in a procedure where codecision is not yet applied. it considers that the new initiative should have been preceded by a study assessing the impact of the system in the beneficiary countries and by more time available for hearings of experts, specialised organisations, beneficiary countries and representatives of civil society. this would have allowed the report of the committee on development to be accompanied by those of other parliamentary committees. the report envisages that the future revision of the system will be more structured and participatory and will strengthen the role of the parliament, without altering the balance of powers, while improving good european governance. we support the initiative of commissioner mandelson to present a revised proposal to bring forward the application of the regulation to 1 april so that the countries affected by the tsunami can receive its benefits as soon as possible. it seems appropriate, in the interests of legal certainty, good administration and legitimate expectations, to ensure that the countries not included in the list may temporarily continue to enjoy the advantages granted to them until the end of the current year. i would like to stress that the requirements for access to the new special incentive must be in line with the requirements of the rule of law and the case of el salvador will put this to the test. the end of violence and the pacification of el salvador have been encouraged and supported by the granting of a preferential system by the union. if the current salvadoran constitution, which has created a delicate balance of concord, does not allow a literal and immediate response to the new requirements, although it does meet its essential objectives, it should not prevent the search for formulas such as the one envisaged in the report on compliance by equivalence. an overly restrictive definition of the vulnerability requirement for access to the special incentive scheme should also be avoided. the report envisages the provision of technical assistance to build institutional and regulatory capacity to enable beneficiary states to increase the currently low system utilisation rate. from the sectoral point of view, i would like to stress the acceptance of the compromise amendment, tabled with the development rapporteur, to link the sugar liberalisation deadlines with those set out in the reform of the common organization of the market, as well as the amendments on textiles and fishery products. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass of less than 100 tonnes. the report has dealt with other aspects of the future, such as the preservation of the calculation base, the expansion of sensitive products and the attention to the interests of acp countries which are not able to build an epa. i conclude by pointing out that the new gsp+, by placing human development at the heart of any development strategy, must become the backbone of the future gsp and by thanking you for your attention and the collaboration of all those who have contributed to the outcome of my report. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the proliferation of nuclear weapons in iraq and north korea is a threat not only to the regions in which these states are located, but to the whole of the planet, especially when we are talking about developing countries which could devote their resources to other purposes. furthermore, if we continue along this line, they could be emulated by other countries in the region, by neighbouring countries, which would therefore break the non-proliferation trend adopted in recent years by some twenty countries. mr president, there is a disturbing fact, namely that the international atomic energy agency has detected more than a dozen cases of nuclear material disappearing, which now represents a potential danger of the use of these weapons. as mr wiersma said in his speech, if terrorist organisations such as al qaeda could acquire nuclear weapons or totalitarian states such as those mentioned could have access to such weapons, it would be very difficult to control their use. the path indicated by mr schmit for the continuation of the dialogue is an interesting one, and i think we must follow it, but we must not forget that in the case of iran, on 1 march last, iaea inspectors were denied access to the parchin military complex and that, in turn, the international atomic energy agency has confirmed that iran is building underground tunnels for the storage of nuclear material and equipment, and that north korea has between 20 and 30 kilos of plutonium in the yongbyon nuclear reactor, in addition to one of the largest nuclear arsenals in the world. i think we must therefore accept the recommendation of the council presidency that we should be vigilant and watchful, and at the same time we must try to follow the path of dialogue, as the president said, in order to put a stop to the proliferation of nuclear weapons, which is, of course, a threat, as i said at the beginning, not only to the region but to the whole planet.
president of the council. mr president, the council is following closely and with concern the serious political crisis in lebanon. this crisis - triggered by the syrian-imposed three-year extension of president lahoud's term of office - culminated in the assassination of former prime minister rafic hariri and ten other innocent civilians. the union has strongly condemned this barbaric act and your parliament, moreover, debated it at length just a few days ago. a man of peace and dialogue, prime minister rafic hariri was a friend of europe. the ordeal that has befallen lebanon must be overcome in unity and serenity, and in respect for the two principles to which mr hariri has dedicated his life's struggle: the independence and sovereignty of lebanon. the resignation of the karamé government under popular pressure creates a new situation which must be exploited. the presidency would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the lebanese people for their courage and determination to regain their full sovereignty and live freely in a democratic country. the council bodies had a first exchange of views on the lebanese crisis on 4 march and returned to the matter this morning in the presence of mr roed-larsen, the united nations special envoy responsible for the implementation of resolution 1559. the eu's high representative, javier solana, will meet a delegation of representatives of the lebanese opposition tomorrow. the main lines of action of the european union could be as follows. firstly, we must support the formation of a new transitional government, acceptable to the main lebanese political forces, in accordance with the constitutional norms of the country. secondly, in order to continue the normalization of lebanese political life, it is essential to shed light on the circumstances and the responsibility for the assassination of rafic hariri. the union therefore supports the un commission of inquiry and intends to maintain pressure on the lebanese authorities to carry out a thorough inquiry. it is also important to support free and fair elections. the european union stands ready to provide assistance in this regard, including by sending an election observation mission if the new lebanese government so requests. the commission is about to carry out a mission to the area to assess the needs and possibilities for electoral assistance. the commission will be able to provide further details on this in its presentation. finally, it is necessary to maintain pressure on all the actors concerned to ensure the full and immediate implementation of resolution 1559, which calls for the immediate and complete withdrawal of syrian troops from lebanon. the council assures the european parliament that it will spare no effort to work for a political solution to the lebanese question, in accordance with the wishes of a large majority of lebanese.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my colleague, mrs ferrero-waldner, commissioner for external relations and european neighbourhood policy, i have the honour to address you on the situation in lebanon. we were shocked and saddened by the horrific terrorist attack in beirut on 14 february, which took the lives of former lebanese prime minister hariri and many others, and seriously injured more than 100 others. this is the most devastating attack on lebanon since the civil war of 1975-1990. mr hariri was one of the main architects of the 1989 taëf accords, which ended the civil war in lebanon. he was a champion of reconstruction in his war-torn country and became a symbol of peace and reconciliation based on a delicate balance between the 18 religious communities that make up the country. we have worked closely with mr hariri and his government. during his term of office, negotiations on an association agreement were successfully concluded and an interim agreement on trade entered into force in march 2003. mr hariri also fully supported the dialogue on the european neighbourhood policy, which also includes lebanon. in the weeks since hariri's death, thousands of protesters have protested against the syrian military presence in their country, defying the government's ban. in the face of relentless pressure following the assassination of mr hariri, lebanese prime minister omar karamé and his government resigned on 28 february following an extraordinary parliamentary debate on the political situation following mr hariri's death. the next few weeks will obviously be decisive for the country and it is important that the parliamentary elections in lebanon take place as scheduled in may. the commission hopes that calm will prevail in the period ahead and that the channels of dialogue between the various political groups will remain open. the elections must be held in accordance with a free and fair electoral process, without any foreign interference or influence, and under the sovereign control of the lebanese authorities. these elections could be a turning point in lebanon's return to full independence and sovereignty. the european union, together with the other partners, will have to remain vigilant as to the conditions under which these elections will be held and we will have to make our position known to the lebanese. the commission is studying how it can help to ensure that the elections take place in good conditions. we are considering the possibility of an election observation mission. we are also considering, if necessary, other support arrangements to ensure a transparent and free electoral process. we are thinking in particular of training local observers. at the moment we are preparing a technical exploratory mission to lebanon. we want to assess what we can do to ensure that the elections take place in the best possible conditions and we do not exclude the possibility of sending observers from the european union if the lebanese government invites us to do so. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union attaches the utmost importance to the full implementation by all parties of un security council resolution 1559, whose objectives we strongly support: free and fair elections without foreign interference, withdrawal of all foreign forces from lebanon, dismantling and disarming of all militias and government control over all lebanese territory. many of these requests have been conveyed in key messages from the european union to lebanon over the years. the european union fully supports the work of the secretary-general of the united nations. we look forward to his report on progress towards the objectives of resolution 1559 early in april. at the same time, the commission is building ever closer relations with lebanon in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. on 2 march the commission presented a report on lebanon, which gives a comprehensive overview of the political, economic and institutional situation, as well as of the state of relations between lebanon and the european union. this report will serve as a basis for work on the neighbourhood partnership action plan, which will include important priorities such as closer political dialogue and enhanced cooperation in a range of areas. for lebanon and other partner countries, the progress achieved under the european neighbourhood policy will reflect their own efforts and achievements, with the active support of the union, of course. in order to take account of the recent political developments in lebanon, the commission has recommended that the timing of the next stage of our work and consultations with the lebanese authorities on the action plan be based on developments in the situation in the country. clearly, we need to know how the situation is developing before we move forward. at the same time, we are continuing our discussions with parliament and the council on the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, which will enable us from 2007 to match our policy ambitions with the necessary financial resources. we hope to have a result before the end of this year, which would allow us to start programming for 2007. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission will continue to support the reform and democratic efforts in lebanon through the association agreement and the european neighbourhood policy. i hope that the european parliament will be our strongest ally in supporting these efforts.
i think that the president-in-office of the council and commissioner louis michel have sufficiently explained the devastating effects of the assassination of former prime minister hariri. it is clear that one of the clearest conclusions must be the withdrawal of syrian forces from lebanon, which must be immediate and must also extend to the secret services. there is no excuse for not complying with the terms of un resolution 1559 and syria must refrain from interfering in lebanon's internal affairs. it is clear, as mr michel has said, that free elections in lebanon must be held without any pressure, and our group welcomes the commissioner's announcement that a technical mission is to be sent to lebanon to prepare an eu election observation mission. we also believe that it is absolutely essential that there should be a commission to investigate independently the circumstances of the assassination of the former prime minister. mr president, this morning all the political groups negotiated a compromise resolution on this very important issue of lebanon and a satisfactory solution must be found for the inclusion of hezbollah on the list of terrorist organizations, since we understand that the action of this organization has been proved beyond doubt and, mr president, the terms of the compromise resolution will have to be adjusted to accommodate a decision that can be in line with the concerns that have been expressed in our political group. i would like to conclude by saying that the european union - as the president-in-office of the council and the commission representative have said - must defend the existence of a democratic, independent and sovereign lebanon, and the instruments we have through the neighbourhood policy and the association agreement really give us a measure of what this relationship can be. i insist: an independent, democratic and sovereign lebanon.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i shall answer the first and third questions together. i am not opposed to the principle of informing citizens with absolute clarity about the existence of extremely dangerous people who are perhaps wanted for very serious crimes. i believe that cooperation between police forces and the investigating authorities of the member states requires, in some cases, public involvement. it is obvious that the confidentiality of data which may be useful to the investigation and which obviously should not be disclosed must be safeguarded in order not to jeopardise the investigation and to preserve the fundamental right of every citizen to the confidentiality of personal data. i shall therefore put the matter to the task force of the police chiefs of the member states, so that a satisfactory answer can be found and reported to this parliament. the second question concerned the case of general godovina, a criminal who had committed very serious crimes. in my recent meeting with the president of the republic and the prime minister of croatia, i pointed out that the commission expects an outcome, namely the arrest of godovina and his surrender to the international criminal court in the hague. we are of course confident in croatia's commitment and also in wider international cooperation, so that not only godovina but all the criminals of the former yugoslavia still at large are swiftly arrested and tried by the hague tribunal.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would like you to note, mr president, that the confiscation of nail scissors and nail clippers from air passengers is not required by community law. regulation no 622/2003, as amended by regulation no 68/2004, does not prohibit knives and scissors other than those with blades exceeding 6 cm. a few member states have chosen to adopt stricter requirements, banning any sharp object regardless of its size. article 6 of regulation no 2320/2002 on the establishment of common rules in the field of civil aviation security authorises member states to apply more stringent measures than those provided for in the regulation. therefore, mr president, you should raise the matter with the national authorities concerned. it is for these national authorities to justify the existence of more stringent provisions.
the commission's vice-president mr rübig, the commission fully understands the inconvenience experienced by passengers when they find that in one member state of the union they are prohibited from taking certain items with them, whereas in another member state the same items can be brought on board. this is why the commission has adopted a common list of prohibited articles in regulation no 68/2004. it is true that the commission has refused to lay down stricter rules. however, as you point out - and i will certainly point this out to the transport ministers at the next council - there should be, as far as possible, if not at least a harmonisation of a number of principles in this area, reflecting the commission's intention: the member state cannot impose a stricter rule unless there is an overriding reason. in this respect you are probably right, and the ministers in the transport council will have to be willing to examine carefully this or that provision which does not seem to be essential and which greatly complicates the lives of european passengers. i thank you for highlighting this problem, which is important because we want air passengers in europe to be able to enjoy all the necessary safety but also to be free from unnecessary hassle.
the commission's vice-president mr president, madam member, the commission has indeed taken note of the closure of the somport road very recently. it asked the french authorities for information. in the light of the french reply, the commission will examine whether the closure for any vehicle over 3,5 tonnes is justified. it will then decide whether it is necessary to initiate infringement proceedings against france. the new pyrenean crossing is currently only at the stage of the first feasibility studies to identify the options for the route of this crossborder corridor. no decision has been taken at this stage by the spanish and french governments as to the horizon for the commissioning of this new pyrenean crossing. the commission, for its part, is ensuring that the national authorities take concrete steps to study and prepare this priority project. i would add that, on a personal level, madam member, i am very attentive to these pyrenees crossings, which actually make it possible to improve mobility not only between spain and france but between all of europe and the whole of the iberian peninsula. i therefore believe that, following the incident you have mentioned, we must continue to discuss and consult in order to move forward along the path you wish to take.
i simply wanted to ask the commissioner if he could specify under what conditions the commission could or should initiate infringement proceedings against france and whether he considers that community rules are adequate and sufficient in this area. as regards the transeuropean networks project, which includes the central railway crossing of the pyrenees and the vignemale crossing, does the commissioner intend, precisely because of the interest he is showing and for which i am particularly grateful, to meet the border regional authorities directly concerned, to hear their views and to be able to explain to him the special sensitivity they have towards this project?
in the pyrenees there is also a very important pass, biriatou, which i assume you are familiar with and which is the most heavily trafficked pass on the french-spanish border. every time a holiday comes - and we are very close to easter - there are huge traffic jams, because in 25 km on the french side and 25 km on the spanish side there are six mandatory stops for motorway tolls. commissioner, do you not think we should take some measures to prevent drivers from having to stop six times and from long queues at this biriatou crossing?
member of the commission. since the united states is applying the tariff band for pliers that it negotiated in the uruguay round, it is in complete compliance with its current world trade organization obligations. while in these negotiations the us might have got a good deal in the pliers sector, the eu certainly obtained a favourable result in other industrial sectors, in which eu exporters are better off than their us counterparts. looking at the whole range of industrial tariffs, the honourable member will note that both the us and the eu maintain high import tariffs in some sectors, but not necessarily in the same ones. i would like to add that the commission negotiators in the doha development agenda negotiating group on non-agricultural market access are well aware of the problem raised by the member. in the current wto round, the eu has shown its clear commitment to bringing down industrial tariffs further, especially in respect of such an important eu export market as the united states. the commission is confident that it will succeed in this.
thank you very much for your answer, mr. piebalgs. i hope that the new doha round will be successful, so that these differences can be balanced, because the manufacturers of hand tools for professional use are small businesses that provide jobs for workers and families who live and depend on the success of the next doha round. i would ask you to also refer to the commissioner, mr mandelson, the question relating to the situation of similar characteristics in trade with russia, where these european-made tools are penalized with a 15% rate. i do not think that either the united states or russia deserve to be within the system of generalized preferences and aid tariffs. i expect mr mandelson to give me a written answer to this question.
member of the commission. i will definitely pass the message on to commissioner mandelson. i should say, however, that when it comes to russia the situation is different. russia is still not a wto member, so we can try to solve this issue only through bilateral negotiations with russia.
question no 22 by georgios papastamkos (h-0132/05) subject: threat of increased customs duties applied by the united states to european exports of processed peaches is it true that the united states intends to increase customs duties applied to european exports of processed peaches and, if so, by what percentage? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wto is not forced to accept the wto's position on the matter.
question no 23 by jan andersson (h-0134/05) subject: impact of eu agricultural policy on world trade eu agricultural policy is an obstacle to world trade. because of eu agricultural subsidies, the world's poorest countries are excluded from the possibility of competing on the world market and the eu market. does the commission share this view on the impact of the eu's agricultural policy? if so, what action will it take?
member of the commission. i agree that the agricultural policy of the european communities was for a long time an obstacle to world trade, but since 1992 a successful reform of the common agricultural policy has remarkably changed the situation. the most recent agricultural reform packages adopted by the agriculture ministers in 2003 and 2004 have to a large extent eliminated the trade-distorting nature of the common agricultural policy and contributed to more market-oriented agricultural trade. eu trade statistics show that eu agricultural imports from the developing countries totalled more than eur 37 billion in 2003. that is more or less equal to the combined imports of the united states, canada, japan, australia and new zealand. the european union alone absorbs 85% of total agricultural exports from africa and 45% of total agricultural exports from latin america. in the doha negotiations, the eu committed itself to a substantial reduction in trade-distorting subsidies, eliminating export refunds and offering improved market access. for the benefit of the poorest or less developed countries, the european community, as well as other major agricultural producers, should introduce similar reforms. the eu makes efforts to persuade other countries to provide quota-free and duty-free market access for agricultural products for less developed countries.
member of the commission. mr. representative, i share your views and concerns. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on competition. it is well known that the 10 new accession countries receive substantially less support from the cap than the 15 former member states, and this puts farmers and producers in the 10 new member states at a competitive disadvantage. of course, i know that developing countries, and especially the poorest countries, have much bigger problems to deal with. but seeing how serious the problems of the 10 new countries are, i can feel and understand the problems of the poorest countries. further steps are needed to make the eu market accessible to the poorest countries.
questions nos 24 and 25 will be answered in writing.
question no 26 by mihael brejc (h-0112/05):subject: administrative reform of the european institutionsaccording to opinion polls, citizens regard the european institutions as large bureaucratic centres with great power whose operation requires a very large part of taxpayers' money. the prodi commission tackled this problem by entrusting commissioner kinnock with the administrative reform of the european institutions. can the commission state whether the kinnock reform has been implemented? is it currently under way or has it perhaps already been completed? if it has ended, what repercussions has it had? how many unnecessary administrative obstacles does eu legislation contain? does the commission intend to draw up a programme of measures to combat red tape?
member of the commission. i share your objectives for the commission and all the eu institutions and services to be effective. that is why the kinnock reforms were implemented, and they have been producing positive results. the eu institutions are working more efficiently than ever. the civil servants who work for the european institutions are dedicated to their tasks. i cannot, therefore, agree with the statement that the reform has produced no results. with regard to simplifying procedures, one has to bear in mind that the eu institutions are publicly funded, and this means that clear procedures have to be observed. looked at from this standpoint, we can never achieve the same types of procedures as private businesses have. the eu institutions will continue reforming because, although the kinnock reforms have certainly yielded good results, one can never reform too much.
question no 27 by paul van buitenen (h-0160/05) subject: role of the court of auditors as europe's 'financial conscience' should not the role of the court of auditors as europe's 'financial conscience' imply an exemplary willingness to investigate and rigor for olaf when it is informed of cases of mismanagement, fraud or any other illegality within this institution? does the commission share the view that the special nature of the court of auditors, which censors the failings of others, could encourage officials, not only of the court but of other institutions, to conceal cases of mismanagement, fraud or any other illegality that are brought to their attention in order to maintain the image of the court of auditors as being above reproach? it is a well-established fact that a former member of the court of auditors who was included by olaf in the investigation carried out by the court of auditors brought an action before the greek courts against a former official of that institution who had given evidence in this case. the institutions have taken measures to protect all officials from unfair or discriminatory treatment following the disclosure of illegal acts and serious misconduct committed within their institutions. does the commission not consider that it would be its duty to ensure the protection of former officials in these circumstances? what action does the commission intend to take in this area?
member of the commission. i can confirm the invitation from vice-president kallas for a meeting with mr van buitenen to discuss this question and the action to be taken in more detail.
question no 28 by bernd posselt (h-0108/05) subject: energy dependence on russia to what extent is the enlarged eu dependent on russian oil and gas supplies? what measures will the commission take to reduce this unilateral dependence?
member of the commission. we are pursuing an eu-russia energy dialogue and we also have an eu-russia dialogue. certainly the dialogue could produce much better results, but i would say that russia should adopt legislation that allows real competition in the market and offers scope for investments. russia needs to make its own decisions; our role is to encourage russia in this and that is what the eu is doing. so i expect the russian energy sector to develop healthily. russia will, for the foreseeable future, remain our partner in buying energy resources.
question no 29 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0154/05) subject: connecting the energy networks of western and eastern europe despite the evolution of the political situation, and in particular the accession of the baltic states to the european union, the energy networks of these countries remain connected to the russian grid. the transeuropean project to interconnect the lithuanian and polish electricity networks would put an end to this unacceptable situation. however, the initiatives to implement the project are lacking. does the fact that the project is on the list of priority projects of the european union mean that the commission wishes to carry out the different phases according to a specific timetable? if so, could the matter be put to the attention of the countries concerned, poland and the baltic states? can the commission take action against those responsible for the current state of inertia of the project? does the commission consider it important in general to interconnect the energy networks of the former eastern bloc with those of western europe?
member of the commission. as far as i know, there are no nuclear power stations in poland to close down. the situation in lithuania is also clear: the accession treaty calls for the closure of the ignalina reactors. that was not because they are old, but during the accession negotiations it became clear that those generators could not be upgraded to meet our safety standards. lithuania has kept its promise and closed the first reactor on time. i have no doubt that the second will be closed as promised in the accession treaty. there is no doubt whatsoever on this. the baltic states have been part of the cis electricity link. that is why it is extremely important to provide other links for security of supply. i have already spoken about estlink. this link connects the baltic states with the eu’s energy systems. we will have another interconnection between lithuania and poland. is this sufficient? definitely not, as we will need more interconnection capacities for the development of our internal electricity market. but at least it provides interconnection between the baltic energy grid and the central european energy grid.
question no 30 by ryszard czarnecki (h-0157/05) subject: harmonisation of energy legislation energy legislation in the eu member states is disparate in practice. this makes it difficult to establish a single european energy market and therefore to ensure the free movement of energy services at both european and international level. what does the commission intend to do in the immediate future to correct this situation?
member of the commission. i have no comments.
questions nos 31 to 55 will be answered in writing. the commission's questions are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 8.25 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur on his work, especially as this is his first report to this parliament on a sensitive and complex subject on which parliament has had to act hastily. i would like to stress that our institution has not had the time to reflect and debate in depth on this complex subject. the report by the committee on international trade, however, improves the commission's proposal, democratizes it by giving greater weight to the role of parliament and balances many aspects of it. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the rules of origin to certain products originating in third countries is based on the principle of mutual recognition of origin. i would like to stress very positively the reference in the report to some practical problems which may arise for third countries in the immediate implementation of certain annexed international conventions, as is the case in el salvador. i also welcome the inclusion of our amendments, which draw attention to the sensitivity of fishery products in general and tuna in particular, which are subject to strict regulations in the european union and whose imports should be properly controlled, so as not to create further problems for a very sensitive industry located in european objective 1 regions which are also very economically and socially dependent on this activity. i am glad that we have got the commission to accept them, as commissioner mandelson himself acknowledged this morning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report, in which he defends development as a basic principle of our trade policy within a transparent and fair international trading system. the system of generalized preferences has played a key role in reducing poverty and improving the economy of developing countries. as rapporteur for the report on the wto negotiations under the doha development agenda, i would like to stress the mutual impact that both systems can have. i believe that this new gsp must be fully compatible with the agreement reached in geneva last summer and with the negotiations currently taking place in the wto. i share the rapporteur's concern about the erosion of preferences that could be generated by tariff reductions agreed at the wto. i therefore believe that it is extremely appropriate for the commission, once the round is over, to draw up a report on the impact that these agreements may have on the gsp and to propose appropriate measures to ensure the full effectiveness of the system. this would help to reduce the reluctance of some developing countries to accept the trade liberalization proposed in the doha negotiations, since the union would take the necessary measures to maintain the current preferential treatment.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 2005 is going to be an important year for all the community institutions and, of course, for the european commission. i think it is important to wish the european commission a good start in its relations with parliament and the committee on budgets has found the best way to do this, by adopting rectifying budget no 1/2005 yesterday with very little internal discussion. we have decided to do so without amendments, in a single reading, and with the urgency that the european commission wanted. we accept the changes in activities from one policy area to another, because we understand that the new commission and the new commissioners require certain changes in the commission's service organization chart, because each commissioner will carry the portfolio in a different way from his predecessor and because it is necessary to make these small adjustments within the organization chart. the budgetary effect being neutral helps to ensure that parliament can adopt this amending budget without any problems. we hope that the commission's service organization chart will work perfectly and that this small change we are introducing will lead to better budget implementation by the various directorates-general. we are aware that other amending budgets which will come in the course of the year will present some further difficulties. it may not be possible to pass them in one reading. i therefore believe that this is a good opportunity, madam commissioner, to achieve perfect interinstitutional cooperation and for the three institutions to adopt this amending budget with the urgency you have called for.
member of the commission. i found the debate very interesting, but perhaps did not make myself clear in my opening speech, and would like to clarify my position. i can assure you that i take this matter extremely seriously and am very concerned at the whole situation. i do not recall saying anything that could possibly be interpreted otherwise. the commission is indeed worried about the situation, but one has to take into consideration the possibilities, competences and rights that it has under the treaty. those of you who followed my hearing know that i am not very happy with the competences we have under the treaty in relation to health. however, that is the law and the reality and we must comply with it. under the treaty we can deal only with the issues of safety and quality. that is why the directive stops short of dealing with the issue of payment, and simply expresses the spirit and philosophy of non-payment that should be implemented and followed by the member states. however, it is not a binding rule. the commission has limits on how much it can do in this respect. for example, it cannot initiate infringement proceedings against a member state, because the principle of subsidiarity applies and this is a matter for the member states. i repeat that this does not mean that because we do not have legal competence we cannot adopt political positions or take political initiatives. we intend to do this primarily through the report we will produce on the implementation of this directive, which will cover the measures taken by member states to promote unpaid and voluntary donations. in this respect we will do whatever we can to promote this aspect of the philosophy of the directive, relating to unpaid and voluntary donations, and at the same time report and point out where it is not being followed and payments are taking place. while i understand the points of view expressed by some members, i must make it clear that we have to comply with the directive and its philosophy of unpaid and voluntary donations, which is what guides the law that the commission has to follow. as far as the specific case is concerned, i once again remind you that we do not have legal competence and that it is not a question of direct investigation by the commission. we received a report from the uk authority and its independent agency and have no reason to doubt the results of that investigation. in fact the trade was stopped some time ago and there was no proof of payments having taken place. we will nevertheless follow up on this matter and pursue it with the romanian authorities to see what evidence they may have, although the uk investigation took place in romania as well and, here too, no proof was found as to payments. even though the directive states that ‘member states shall endeavour to ensure voluntary and unpaid donations’, that does not mean that member states cannot go beyond that and legislate, as i suggested in my speech, on such unpaid voluntary donations in a national context and even ban payments, provided that this can be justified on ethical, public morality grounds. given the realities of the treaty, greater responsibility lies with the member states than the european community in this respect. i do not feel that the problem has been solved, because it is true that since there is demand, there will always be a potential for trade and payments. perhaps this case did involve payments, although nothing has been proved, and there will always be a potential for this. that is why we must find ways to promote voluntary, unpaid donations so that demand is covered and there is no room for illicit trade or payments, with all the risks that this entails. i can assure you that, within the scope of our competences, we will follow this matter very closely. if we find there has been any violation of either the letter or the spirit of the directive we will report it and make it public.
member of the commission. in order to answer every single question on related and unrelated issues i would need about 45 minutes, which is not possible. however, we will answer in writing the question on the legal implications of the violation of fundamental rights and the position we can take on that. i am not from the legal service and so cannot give a legal opinion here. therefore we will respond in writing, at a later stage. otherwise, i believe that the main points raised have been answered.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy. we have here mr schmit on behalf of the council and mr verheugen on behalf of the commission. on the part of parliament we have a number of members who are taking their seats. i call mr schmit on behalf of the council.
madam president, only today can we celebrate the significance of this debate, the firm commitment between the council, the commission and the european parliament with which we want to relaunch and, above all, to concretise the efforts needed to finally make a more competitive and innovative europe a reality, without giving up on further strengthening what remains its best and most precious added value: the european social model, the quality of life and the social rights of european citizens. i particularly welcome the insistence of commissioner verheugen in speaking to us about innovation and financing, because the efforts to better prepare young europeans, to improve the training and skills of workers and entrepreneurs, to achieve better participation of women with equal rights in professional life without losing the illusion of family life, all these efforts which we are advocating today with our political will, will not be sufficient if we are not able to promote the necessary public and private investments which provide the european space and territory with the infrastructure which is a basic condition for the development of the economy, to make the mandate of free movement of goods, services and people throughout the european union a reality. this is currently reflected in the 30 transeuropean network projects, which, like the lisbon strategy, have so far been the victims of a certain laxity and funding problems on the part of the member states. the european parliament urges and encourages the commission to redouble its efforts to convince the member states - to which we also offer our help and support - and urges it to use all the means at its disposal to be more creative and to propose the synergies that can be created between the three types of networks - transport, energy and telecommunications - in order to reduce costs and obtain sufficient resources. we also support the amendment relating to a sustainable development model for transport, which we consider to be fundamental, including renewal and technological innovation for transport.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the answer to the question whether it is possible to create six million new jobs in europe by 2010 is 'yes'. the question whether this is an overly ambitious objective is answered by the answer 'no'. and to the question of whether we will be able to do that, the answer is, "it depends on what we do and what we don't do". what's not to do? we must not follow the example of those countries which have given up structural reforms and increased public spending. what we need to do is the exact opposite. more growth must be achieved. and let me suggest four concrete measures, using as an example the policy pursued in spain by the aznar government, which is not at all suspect of being inefficient. first, we should make the labour market more flexible, to increase labour participation. secondly, we must ensure that the budgetary allocation for cohesion in the period 2007-2013 is appropriate. thirdly, we should encourage entrepreneurship by reducing tax and administrative burdens. fourthly, we should support measures to improve education and lifelong learning. secondly, the single market must be completed, giving priority to the liberalisation of the markets for communications, energy and financial services. and thirdly, the european economy must be opened up to the outside world, with special attention to emerging countries. but none of this will be possible, ladies and gentlemen, unless we have an adequate budget - the commission's limit of 1.24% of the community's gross income is right - and unless we involve the member states, which are the main actors in the lisbon strategy, directly in the process. if any of these states use the lisbon strategy to propose cuts in community policies that have been effective in terms of growth or to relax the stability pact, i will bet you, ladies and gentlemen, a pint of spanish omelette and a belgian beer that we will go straight to failure.
the rapporteur. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, i agree with the diagnosis made by the president of the commission. i think europe is at a crossroads at the moment. europe may enter into crisis if the constitutional treaty is not ratified, either now or in a few years' time, if we are unable to define a european power which affirms our political and economic identity abroad. that is what we have to do now and it will coincide with the mandate of this commission and with the mandate of this parliament. and to do that, from an economic point of view, which is what we are talking about here today, there is a necessary condition, macroeconomic stability, and a sufficient condition, to accelerate the lisbon reform process, to create more jobs, to be more productive, in short, more competitive, and thus to shorten the distances that separate us from the united states and to face the competition of the emerging countries. we have discussed the lisbon reforms this morning, so i will now return to the necessary condition, the stability pact. i think we have to be very honest with each other on this issue. we are going to reform the stability pact, not because it has lost its internal logic, the foundations on which it was based, but simply because there have been too many breaches, mostly by the large countries. and if it is the big countries that are forcing us to reform the pact, we must know what they are prepared to do, and we have just learned that. they are willing to accept reform of the preventive aspect of the pact, to make efforts in times of prosperity, simply because they know that there will be no power in the world to force them to comply with those rules. and in matters of prevention, they want to sweeten, to break the rules, to the point that 'as some source in german social democracy has said', there are no rules at all. in this respect, there are only two solutions - and only two: either we move towards economic governance, economic coordination, an impartial arbiter incapable of imposing action, or we maintain automaticity. we have not wanted to make any progress on economic coordination. the intergovernmental conference has undone the timid steps taken by the convention in the field of coordination, so we are as before. and we also don't want to keep the automation. all we're going to do in this and the next councils is backtrack. the problem is to what extent and at what speed. the exemptions granted in respect of compliance with the rules we have given ourselves are a weakening, a concession, of the stability pact. the extent to which you give in will determine our future credibility, our economic strength and, in short, the avoidance of the economic crisis which i have predicted in the years ahead.
mr president, in the referendum on the eu constitution which was held in the spanish state, the basques and catalans clearly confirmed that we wish to be fully involved in europe. within the hispanic map, the percentage of 'no' votes cast in euskadi and catalunya was three times as high as in spain. europe must take account of this political reality, especially if the goal is to build a closer and stronger europe that counts for all the people of europe. it would be very undemocratic to neglect the different realities that exist in europe's stateless nations. we cannot be so hypocritical as to claim plurality in europe and deny it internally. at a time when several spanish meps have been complaining of alleged discrimination against the castilian language, in the same period, manuel marín, the president of the spanish parliament, forbade a catalan mp from speaking a few words of catalan in his introductory remarks. different criteria cannot be applied to equivalent situations. one cannot claim rights, justice or different standards of morality when in europe and, on the other hand, insist on a pragmatic approach based on financial practicality when in spain or italy. if we are truly committed to multilingualism, if we want the castilian language to be used at all committee meetings, press conferences, etc, we must first be honest and safeguard everyone's linguistic rights, including those of the catalans and basques as well as, for example, the welsh and irish. (the speaker continued in catalan)
president of the council. the council reminds the honourable member that the determination of the volumes of admission of migrant workers is the responsibility of each member state of the union, and i would add that it will continue to be the responsibility of each member state of the union even after the constitution has entered into force. as regards the regularization process implemented by the spanish government and referred to in the question, the council has not formally discussed it and is therefore not in a position to answer. more generally, the council invites the honourable member to refer to the developments contained in the multiannual programme of the hague adopted by the european council at its meeting of 4 and 5 november 2004. in adopting this programme, the european council, in the matter before us, based its conclusions in particular on the idea that the informal economy and clandestine employment can be a factor of attraction for illegal immigration and lead to exploitation. on the specific problem of managing economic migration, the council held an initial exchange of views on the commission's green paper on a community approach at its meeting on 24 february. at this stage it is a reflection paper covering a wide range of issues and considering a range of possible avenues. the review process that has been initiated should serve as a basis for the establishment by the commission, at the end of 2005, of a programme on legal immigration.
regardless of whether it is formal or informal, it is certain that mr otto schily and mrs rita verdonk made that protest. i have the commission's reply yesterday, in the same terms, and i am sorry to say, mr president-in-office of the council, that that answer was much clearer than yours, because you said that the size of the unregulated labour market is not being reduced, which means - and the commission said it yesterday too - that illegal migration is being encouraged in some way. and i say, with some experience, that in addition to encouraging illegal migration, the 'call effect' is being encouraged, facilitating the action of the mafias that traffic in human beings, the market for forged documents is being encouraged and, in addition, the schengen area is being violated. mr president-in-office of the council, we are dealing with a measure whose remedy is more serious than the disease.
president of the council. the hague programme, to which i referred, provides for the fight against illegal immigration, against clandestine immigration, but also against clandestine work. the problem is complex, let's face it, because the illegals who are here, they are here. so what do we do with it? they're here, and they're working underground. are we going to accept that they continue to work underground? that's the question. i think the best solution is that there is less illegal immigration and less illegal labor.
we must take into account, as an incontrovertible fact, the very serious mistakes of the previous spanish government, which led to the arrival of one million illegal immigrants in spain. i join the commission and now the president-in-office of the council in asking, in extension of the previous question, whether the spanish regulation is not precisely a commitment to legal and orderly immigration, a strengthening of border controls and a fight against the underground economy, as the president has very well said.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to thank mr potočnik for his open and open-minded approach, and mrs locatelli and all the members of the itre committee who have worked on this matter in a constructive and positive spirit. i think the oil barrel has reached 55 dollars today. according to financial analysts, the oil price is unlikely to fall and this poses a threat to the economy. we need answers pretty quick. we need energy responses that deliver results in a few years. the greens believe that the seventh framework programme must provide these answers through its investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy, which do provide rapid responses to this situation. we are concerned about the priority given to dangerous energies of the past, which are likely to be used by international terrorism, such as nuclear energy. we are also concerned about the massive focus on investment in energy projects such as iter fusion, which will not produce a single kilowatt of energy in 40 or 50 years, according to the scientists themselves. we want the outcome of the seventh framework programme to be favourable to quality of life and society, public health, preventive health, sustainable transport in our cities and the social science needed to take a reflective view of what we are researching and the society we are making. in this respect, mr potočnik, we are pleased that you attach importance to social science. i think that in the future - and i'll end here - research will be very important, if there is an open science that can be shared by society and the whole scientific world.
i would also like to congratulate mrs locatelli on her excellent work. i believe that the debate we have had in recent months on what the european research strategy should be and on the objectives of the seventh framework programme has been enriching and will undoubtedly have a positive impact on european science. the essential objectives for achieving the longer-term objectives of the european union have been clarified, the instruments available to us to achieve them have been analysed and some new ones have been suggested. in this sense, if we are to meet the objectives of the lisbon strategy and the barcelona summit and take account of the recommendations of the kok report, the seventh framework programme must, without a doubt, increase its resources sufficiently within the framework of the new financial perspectives. to achieve these objectives and to create the european research area, good coordination is also needed at both member state and european union level so that resources and actions are complementary and have a multiplier effect. support for excellent basic research as a driver of technological development, growth and competitiveness is also key to delivering on the lisbon strategy. this requires making europe more attractive to the best researchers, both young and female, and to the recovery of highly qualified scientists, and promoting the participation of smes in each and every one of the thematic priorities, in the cross-border collaboration axes and in technology initiatives through the funding of projects of the right size and the use of specific instruments according to their needs. we have reached an important agreement on all this - and i congratulate the rapporteur again on that. other, somewhat more controversial issues will require further discussion. this is the case with research priorities, which we believe should be extended to new ones of great potential economic importance for the european union, such as research in science ...
mr president, i am very sorry that despite mrs auken's efforts to improve the document, we are doing a bad job, because i have never seen an initiative like natura 2000, which brings together so many members of parliament and political groups, cause such confusion and often conflicting positions. why would you do that? because the document is bad in itself. it is a document which is based on goodwill, but which is technically incomplete and confusing. firstly, because it does not distinguish between the different families of natura 2000 sites, such as forests, agricultural land - which accounts for the majority of the land - where the land is cultivated or where there is a protected natural environment, and, for example, rivers, the sea and the seabed. it would be foolish to think of applying rural development to the seabed. how are you going to fund that? the same is true of rivers or wetlands. the different families are not clear, and neither is the question of funding. we see, for example, that the structural funds regulation would have to be changed in order to be able to finance natura 2000. the structural funds are based on statistical principles and not precisely on qualitative concepts such as natura. on the other hand, to finance rural development, a previous educational activity should have been carried out, because, in fact, the environment and agriculture are relatively incompatible and because the natura 2000 policy itself has meant the expropriation and limitation of activity for many owners. in addition, the necessary work has not been done to see to what extent, within rural development, there is a part of the natural environment that could even serve to inspire the farmers with a future project of conservation of the landscape and the environment. i am therefore very sorry to say that this document has not been returned to the commission, given the enthusiasm of the members of parliament on this subject and the good faith they are showing in these days with their actions. in my view, parliament and biodiversity deserved a better document.
mr president, commissioner, to ensure the funding of natura 2000 we must be practical. we have been working on this for a long time in this parliament and, as we have all agreed, we are deeply concerned about the future of the natura 2000 network. three months ago i had the opportunity to meet the director-general for the environment, mrs day, who made it quite clear that she had no intention of creating her own natura 2000 fund, however legitimate our requests in this house. the socialists therefore support the commitment which the committee on the environment has so far agreed to. it is a commitment which does not preclude co-financing or the creation of an own fund, but it leaves open a very interesting door within the new life+, so that all those actions can be covered where rural development alone will be impossible to reach. i would like to call for a vote tomorrow. my group does not understand the amendments tabled at the last minute by the people's party. we do not understand them, because i do not think it is worthwhile to divide us at the last minute and to break up the great common effort that has been achieved in the committee on the environment. that position must be ratified. we also welcome the fact that the text to be voted on tomorrow contains the principle of proportionality in the allocation of funds, i.e. that since the network benefits the whole of the union, it cannot entail greater costs for those member states, such as mine, which are home to greater biological diversity and greater protected area. we remind the commission of this, but it is already covered by the habitats directive. the natura 2000 network is one of the best bets that have been made since the union began to walk. we must therefore continue to support it at community level, together with the member states. we are not against co-financing but we are deeply concerned about its future and because right now there are many parts of the net that are left unprotected. i call for the house to reach consensus on the efforts made in the committee on the environment, particularly in paragraph five.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate mrs auken on her excellent work, especially since she has taken up most of the suggestions put forward by the committee on regional development. we are concerned, commissioner, about the financing of natura 2000. we agree with the strategic approach, but we also want to ensure adequate funding for natura 2000, and we are very much afraid that if projects of environmental interest have to compete with others considered to be of greater socioeconomic interest, the former will be harmed, especially when - as you very well said - the budget is limited. we are certainly in favour of paragraph 5, because it opens the door to adequate funding for natura 2000 through a specific instrument within life+ or, of course, by also increasing the structural and rural development funds with a specific heading. we therefore ask the commission to take this report into account, since it contains all the criteria which give firmness and genuinely support adequate funding for natura 2000.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, no one in this parliament is questioning the need for reform in the sugar sector. you have described very well in your speech the reasons why it is necessary. we are opposed to the commission's proposal, and in my case for two fundamental reasons: firstly, because it creates an imbalance in the distribution of the reduction effort within the european union, burdening it on the most disadvantaged areas; and secondly, because it does not guarantee the maintenance of the incomes of beet growers. in my country, spain, the application of this directive would mean the disappearance of a large part of the 118 000 hectares of arable land in castile and león, andalusia and castile-la mancha, and would affect 23 000 producers. the commission is proposing a new system of farm prices, which is not yet in force, and the impact of the reductions in prices and quotas on the incomes of family farms, the loss of jobs in industry and the impact on the rural environment of the member states concerned are not taken into account in the impact study. we believe, madam commissioner, that the price reductions should be smaller and more spread over time, with a significant part of the aid being tied up, so as not to disrupt the economic and social fabric of the producing areas in my country, which are located in the less prosperous regions. in addition, the reduction of quotas should begin with the surplus quantities and those intended for export, which are the most harmful to the international market for this product. we are totally against - and i have to say it this way - the transfer of quotas between member states. we believe that this would or could lead to a relocation of employment and economic activity within the european union, which would create greater imbalances the less competitive the states are, and would create a dangerous precedent within the cap. as regards the external scope of the proposal, the 'everything but arms' (eba) initiative should include quantitative import control instruments similar to those already in place for acps. this is what the acp and ldc representatives are asking for and it is thus amply reflected in our resolution. in conclusion, commissioner, i would ask you to take into account what has already been said to you by both mr daul and mr fruteau, my two colleagues who have tabled this proposal: this resolution was adopted by a broad consensus in the committee on agriculture and rural development; so it is now appropriate to put forward legislative proposals which reflect the observations contained in it.
mr president, the european industrial beet-growing sector has unanimously said 'no' to the european commission's proposal and has spoken out against a reduction in institutional prices, a cut in production quotas and the possibility of transferring quotas, a measure which would clearly benefit the most competitive countries to the detriment of others, such as spain. spanish beet growers alone will suffer losses that could amount to 60 million euros a year. the possibility of transferring quotas from one country to another would lead to the concentration of european production in a few regions and the impoverishment of the rural world in many areas where sugar beet production plays a very important social and economic role. the european commission itself acknowledges in its communication that this reform will also lead to the closure of sugar production units, that is, it assumes that its reform will have disastrous consequences. the commission does not take into account the situation of countries such as spain, whose sugar production quota has always been in deficit. the draft resolution by the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament should, in my view, be regarded as a minimum document, which should serve as a basis for the negotiations to be held by the council of ministers of the european union. the commission should not, once again, turn a deaf ear to the concerns of the sector and should take careful note of the rejection which i hope this parliament will express to its proposal in the vote which will take place today. i also hope that this house will reject the package of measures put forward by a socialist member, whose line is in contradiction with the negotiations that have already taken place between different political groups.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, one year ago, at the initiative of the european parliament, our union decided that 11 march would be the european day of the victims of terrorism. and we did so, because tomorrow will be the one year anniversary of madrid waking up to the sound of the bombs that took the lives of 192 citizens from different countries. spain has unfortunately been a country accustomed to the terrorist threat. for many years we endured it. many dead were left behind. but even in the hardest times of the fight against the terrorist group eta, spanish society never renounced its freedom. however, that march 11, that new and even more terrible attack, was part of the dynamic created by another attack, that of september 11, 2001 in new york and washington, which awakened the western world from its calm confidence and changed the course of world geopolitics. that 9/11 we said we were all americans. then in march, in madrid, we said we were all going on the atocha trains. today, in atocha square, the candles that made it a shrine of remembrance are no longer there, but the memory is still there, the memory of some victims who, as a sign of our respect, should be a symbol of our unity and not flags of our political confrontation. the first tribute to the victims is to make them a symbol of the unity of democrats, a symbol of the unity of those of us who believe in the rule of law and human rights. on 11 march, europeans were confronted with a global perspective on the problem of terrorism. until then, each country had its terrorists, but after 9/11, first, and then march 11, terrorism reached a global dimension that required a global response. we europeans then realised that our values, and not just our lives, were threatened and therefore reacted together without forgetting that the fight for democracy was and will be at the heart of our political project. let us remember that democracy has never succumbed to terrorism, but that more than military instruments are needed to implement it. first, we must look back and appreciate the response we have been able to give to those events. the first conclusion to be drawn is that perhaps the deaths in madrid were not in vain because, shortly afterwards, europe reached an agreement to unblock its constitution, now subject to ratification. maybe that was a big push that allowed us to overcome a lot of our differences. secondly, we must know whether we have really implemented the commitments we made then, whether we have fulfilled the agreements we made with ourselves and whether we have really implemented the measures we committed ourselves to implement. in this respect, perhaps, we should acknowledge that we have not applied all that the emotion of the moment has impelled us to agree. a large part of the measures provided for in the action plan adopted by the council after 11 march have not yet been fully implemented, which should remind us that the fight against terrorism also requires more europe, because we are now aware that the traditional forms of judicial and police cooperation are not working. the european parliament has always been at the forefront of the fight against terrorism, despite the limited role that the treaties give us in this area. it is not, of course, the time to give a long account of all that parliament has done, but it is the time to express our deep conviction that police effectiveness will be greater the greater the capacity of the member states to exchange police and security information and that is why we must ask ourselves now, now that we are remembering the victims: what are still the underlying problems that prevent europol from being fully operational? when will we have a european public prosecutor's office? when will we have european legislation to prevent money laundering...{protests)... a basic element in the fight against organised crime and its links to terrorism? there is some positive progress in these areas, but some of the decisions that were taken - i am not talking about anything other than what was decided to be done after 11 september - have not yet seen the light of day. i do not understand the expressions of indignation, because that is what many political leaders from all over the world are talking about in madrid today. that is what is being discussed in madrid today at the international conference attended by many dignitaries and experts from all over the world, and which i myself will be attending at the end of this solemn event, together with the secretary-general of the united nations, mr kofi annan, and the president of the commission, mr barroso, who will be presenting an action plan drawn up by the commission to combat terrorism, which refers to some of the measures i have just mentioned. yes, in madrid, as before yesterday here in brussels and strasbourg, there is talk of the need to fight terrorism from a global, comprehensive perspective, starting with full respect for the rule of law and not forgetting to examine the causes of terrorism and the instruments that allow it to grow and spread throughout the world. let us not forget that to ensure our security it is essential to promote dialogue and integration between cultures and religions, not forgetting development cooperation. it is not a comfortable or easy debate, but we cannot avoid it. terrorists have no explanation or justification, but there are causes which produce them and we must also pay attention to them in our analysis. an analysis which takes into account the need not only to respect the values and fundamental rights which are the basis of our community, but to apply preventive measures which not only prevent having to regret everything, but also avoid having to regret it. obviously, i am not just talking about prevention of war. i am talking about prevention in the broadest sense of the word. internal and external prevention, internally in our societies, to ensure the integration of migrants, tolerance, religious and cultural pluralism, the fight against discrimination, cooperation between intelligence services and judicial systems... (applause)... and external action also on many fronts: war, poverty, the proliferation of nuclear, biological or chemical weapons; a global framework to combat terrorism, without forgetting, ladies and gentlemen who represent the citizens of europe here, that the most effective way, the basis of all forms of combating terrorism, is respect for the fundamental values of our union. thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the house. (loud applause) and now, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in memory of those victims, who must be, as i said, the symbol of our democratic union, i ask you to observe a minute's silence. (parliament adopted the resolution)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs aubert on her report, which was unanimously adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development, and to express the satisfaction of the socialist group with the final result of the report. the committee has taken all our amendments into account, which has made it possible to improve substantially the initial proposal presented by the commission, which started with 21 measures that were not very specific, not very ambitious and not binding. one of the objectives of the cap reform is to combine the production of quality products with respect for the environment, and it is precisely this type of agriculture that is the fundamental pillar for achieving this dual objective. in some european regions, such as andalusia, we have increased the area devoted to these crops from 2 000 to 300 000 hectares in the last decade, thanks to the fact that the regional government is the first in europe to have a serious and budgeted action plan for organic crops. in general terms, the sector is growing at an average annual rate of 30%. we will therefore all agree that, while the cap recognizes the importance of organic farming, which is proving to be increasing, farmers and member states cannot and must not be left alone in the face of the truth. nor is it the best solution to leave to the will of the states the possibility of encouraging or not encouraging the development of this production. in my group we believe that the commission is basically speaking in two different languages. the good and virtues of this important sector are praised, but at the same time it is not supported in a clear and decisive way. it is not just gestures that are needed, but also realities and budgets. organic farming must become an integral part of a production system that respects the environment. we are starting from a reality and, moreover, from a consensus: farmers, consumers and all political bodies have shown a renewed interest in the phenomenon of organic farming. it is therefore our duty as the european parliament to urge and encourage clear and decisive support for this type of agriculture. we believe that this action plan which we are voting on today is a first step and an opportunity for debate, but it is a weak and unambitious step. more support is needed for marketing, certification, control, etc. but having said that, we think it is good that the commission is pursuing this plan. the commissioner's presence here is a good opportunity to ask her to make sure that this is really an action plan and not a plan of suggestions, and to make it clear that parliament is firmly behind this important sector and this pioneering action plan, which the sector was in dire need of.
the commission's statement on the situation in tibet is on the agenda.
mr president, i would once again like to congratulate this house and the commission for bringing the question of tibet to the table. i think we have a good opportunity to remind ourselves that it is no longer the tibetan government and the dalai lama - which have already done so - but particularly the chinese government who must now make a move in favour of sino-tibetan dialogue and a lasting and just solution for the people of tibet. in this context of growing relations with the european union, i think it is important to send a clear message to china that it must respond favourably to the progress of this dialogue and, in this respect, it is very worrying that the possibility of lifting the arms embargo on china is even mentioned. in my view, that would be a serious mistake and would not only send the wrong message about the double standard of the european union in the respect for human rights in the world, but also an institutional incoherence, since it should be remembered that the european parliament recently adopted a resolution clearly to the contrary. i therefore insist that lifting the arms embargo on china today, when the situation in tibet is not resolved, is clearly sending the wrong message.
the six motions for resolutions on belarus are now under discussion.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, let me start by saying that i very much share the sentiments expressed in your motion for a resolution on belarus, about which we share many of the same concerns. the eu's goal is to have close relations with all of our neighbours, including belarus. we want to see belarus as a democratic, stable and prosperous country, fully benefiting from our neighbourhood policy. unfortunately, its government's policies prevent it from taking its rightful place in the family of european nations. the seriously flawed conduct of the parliamentary elections and the referendum in october 2004, show how far belarus is lagging behind in terms of democratic development. it is deeply worrying for us all that democratization, respect for fundamental freedoms and respect for the rule of law are deteriorating rather than improving, as the regime continues to tighten its grip on democratic forces, the independent media and opposition forces. in november 2004, following the elections in belarus, eu foreign ministers adopted conclusions setting out a clear eu policy. we confirmed the restrictions on ministerial-level contacts with belarusian authorities, but at the same time sent a clear message to the population that they are not forgotten and that we are trying to support civil society and democratic forces in belarus. we are closely monitoring the human rights situation in the country and, as a result, the eu imposed a visa ban last year on certain high-ranking belarusian officials, on the basis of the findings of the council of europe's pourgourides report on politically motivated disappearances. we then extended this visa ban to the officials considered responsible for the rigged election and the referendum, as well as those responsible for the repression of the peaceful demonstrations that followed. the cases of mr marinich and other imprisoned political opponents are of great concern to us. we believe that his trial was politically motivated and have issued a statement calling for his disproportionate sentence to be reconsidered. we have serious concerns in general about the independence of the judiciary in belarus and continue to follow these cases closely. the eu issued the statement on mr marinich's case in january. as regards your call on the commission to step up our assistance efforts to belarus, i am pleased to report that we have already done so in response to the eu foreign ministers' conclusions last november. the commission is playing the lead role in coordinating and delivering eu assistance in support of civil society and democratisation in belarus. a conference will be held in vilnius next week on that very important subject. in difficult situations such as that of belarus, where a country is isolating itself from the world, this is particularly difficult and we are working on the appropriate division of labour between the community member states and other donors. we very much welcome the role that the european parliament can play in encouraging democratic changes and supporting democratic forces in belarus. we are currently carefully examining the action plan which your delegation for relations with belarus has prepared, to see how this can mesh with our own efforts in that regard. there is much to be done and we look forward to working with parliament and with the democratic forces inside belarus. you raised some questions in your contributions that i should like to answer. the first was whether belarus was discussed at high-level meetings between the eu and russia. the answer is yes; the issue is always raised during those meetings. the question of how to channel the funds and how to assist civil society in belarus financially was also raised. the main question is the ability of the relevant organisations to absorb the funds. the commission is ready to examine all possible ways of supporting belarusian civil society financially so that the funds can be used efficiently.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon after the end of the debate.
the six motions for resolutions on cambodia are now under discussion.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has been following with concern the events relating to the lifting on 3 february of the parliamentary immunity of mr sam rainsy, the leader of the cambodian opposition sam rainsy party, and two other members of the national assembly. the commission believes these events could further weaken the opposition and risk jeopardising the continuation of the democratic process in the country. commission representatives in brussels have also recently met mr rainsy, who briefed them on the recent developments. the commission strongly supported the issuing of an eu declaration on the subject and i can inform you that the eu declaration was brought to the personal attention of the prime minister by the local representative of the eu presidency. the commission is raising its concern over these issues in its political dialogue with cambodian authorities, for instance at the ec-cambodia joint committee meeting to be held later this year. i can also assure you that, in all its co-operation activities in cambodia, the commission attaches the greatest importance to democracy, good governance and respect for human rights. i take this opportunity to call upon the political leaders in cambodia to work constructively together to find an appropriate solution to this problem, so as to enable cambodia to continue its progress on the road to a fully functioning democracy. at the same time, i would like to assure this house that the commission will continue to follow these events closely, through its delegation in phnom penh and with the missions of eu member states in cambodia.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon after the end of the debate.
the six motions for resolutions on saudi arabia are now under debate.
mr president, mr commissioner, the holding of municipal elections in saudi arabia is indeed a significant and important event in favour of the political reforms that this country is undertaking; this must be recognized and this is also recognized in the resolution we are presenting today. however, the fact that the state of segregation still persists, in these terms, against women, who have not been able to vote or stand for office, is a clear anachronism. women face incomprehensible and unacceptable restrictions on freedom of movement - including the right to drive - employment opportunities, legal personality and legal representation in court proceedings. it is also regrettable that the whole immigrant population lives in precarious conditions, especially women. if saudi arabia wants to be internationally recognised as a modern state that respects human rights, it must at least respect the rights set out in the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, to which saudi arabia is a state party. in particular, article 7 of the convention provides that states parties shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women in the political and public life of their country and shall in particular guarantee the right of women to vote in all elections and to be elected and to take part in the formulation of state policy and its implementation. it is clear that this article was not respected in the recent municipal elections. it should also be recalled that according to amnesty international data, at least 31 people were executed under the death penalty in 2004. it is therefore necessary to reiterate the call for the abolition of the death penalty, as the european union has been doing for some time. maintaining good relations with saudi arabia is important and provides an opportunity for both sides to contribute to a better understanding between peoples and cultures. however, it is precisely for the sake of these good relations that saudi arabia should not be another example of the double standard with which the european union sometimes measures the democratization and respect for human rights in the world. the credibility of the european union is again at stake here.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the european commission thanks parliament for bringing forward this resolution on saudi arabia. it is a well-drafted and balanced resolution, which has the merit of pointing out the positive and less positive aspects of the saudi elections and the on-going reform process. the commission also welcomes the visit to saudi arabia by the european parliament's delegation for relations with the gulf cooperation council, and encourages it to pursue its efforts. the commission shares the parliament's view on the need to promote a substantial strengthening of eu-saudi relations. in june 2004, the european council adopted an eu strategic partnership for the mediterranean and the middle east. that document reflected the eu's political will to intensify efforts to resolve conflicts, ease tension, build trust, strengthen governance and improve the lives of the people living on the shores of the mediterranean and in the middle east, and not least to address the situation faced by women in some of these countries. our current eu-gulf cooperation council agreement and our future free trade area agreement - which will include human rights as an essential element - will remain the framework for our cooperation. however, we will be further developing our relations with each gulf country according to its particular needs, capacities and will to move towards. the european union's determination to promote both stability and change throughout the region is at the core of this process. indeed, we must pursue stability through change and reform: political and economic reforms are needed for the region's development and the well-being of its peoples. the commission, as you know, is keen that an initiative for reform should come from within the region itself. this requires that the region speak out clearly in favour of political, economic and social reform. while reforms cannot be imposed from the outside, they can be encouraged. for example, the eu should encourage the saudi government to accelerate the pace of reforms that contribute towards women's empowerment. the eu will continue to raise such issues in its official contacts with the saudis, not least at the next eu-gulf cooperation council ministerial meeting to be held in bahrain on 5 april. in addition, saudi arabia has now been included as one of the countries on which the european initiative for democracy and human rights can focus. that means we will assess initiatives from ngos willing to support the efforts made in the region.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time.
we now move on to the votes. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
yes, of course, mr posselt, it is from six political groups, and among them is the epp-ed group.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.50 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 10 march 2005.
the first thing i would like to do, on behalf of the european parliament, is to welcome the presence in the diplomatic gallery of bishop rallo, the holy see's special envoy to the council of europe.
ladies and gentlemen, last week we all heard the sad news of the death of pope john paul ii. as you know, that same night i sent a message to the vatican, the text of which has been circulated to you. and on friday morning, on behalf of the european parliament, i was present at his funeral in rome, accompanied by vice-president saryusz-wolski, in the joint representation of the european union, together with mr barroso. i believe that today we should all pay tribute to the memory of pope john paul ii, who left behind a great legacy to humanity with his enduring message of peace, love and freedom. he set a great example of faith and courage for all and bore the suffering of his final years with great dignity. but here, in the european parliament, we must above all acknowledge the gratitude that europe owes to him for his reunification; his messages of peace and freedom undoubtedly had a huge influence on the fall of the communist system: first in his homeland, in poland, and then in all the other countries of eastern europe. the european parliament has been a key factor in the fall of the wall, which has brought us the reunion of europeans, of which this parliament is the highest expression. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. those visionary words are now reality and the european union is moving forward in the unity that we all need and that he wanted. john paul ii leaves behind a legacy of dialogue, understanding and reconciliation between religions, as well as between believers and nonbelievers. he was a great man and, without doubt, a great european who will remain in the collective memory of this parliament. for this and many other reasons i would ask you now to gather all together in a minute to remember your memory. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as drawn up by the conference of presidents on thursday 7 april, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131. monday: no request for amendment has been submitted. tuesday:the green group/european free alliance has submitted a request to the commission to make a statement on illegal imports of bt 10 maize into the european union. the author of the proposal, mr graefe zu baringdorf, has the floor.
does anyone wish to speak in favour of the proposal? no one did. does anyone wish to intervene against it?
we are putting to the vote the proposal by the green group/european free alliance to include a commission statement on the illegal import of bt 10 maize into the european union. (the proposal was rejected)
of course i will. a matter of order. i will not ask you for the article you are referring to because i have not asked mr swoboda for it either, but tell me what it is.
you know that electronic voting requires the introduction of the card. without a card you can't vote in the electronic voting by definition, and i can't know who has a card and who doesn't. i can't see if you have a card or not. it's the computer that counts the votes. yours obviously couldn't have been accounted for if you didn't have a card. i'm sorry about that. wednesday: no request for amendment has been submitted. thursday:we received two requests concerning the items included in the debates on cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. on the one hand, the socialist group in the european parliament has asked for the bangladesh item to be replaced by the burma item. and the group of the european people's party has asked for the lampedusa item to be replaced by the burma item. we shall vote first on the request from the socialist group. if it were accepted, the ppe group's request would be dropped. does anyone wish to explain the request of the socialist group?
does anyone wish to speak in favour?
mr president, i simply want to say that the request made by the chairman of the competent delegation, mrs gill, is a very reasonable proposal, because it would allow this urgent debate to be postponed to a later part-session, giving time for the competent delegation to meet, and that my group would be prepared to support it provided that the socialist group supported another reasonable proposal that we have made: that the urgent resolution on lampedusa be dealt with at a later stage, giving time for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to carry out a mission, as it has decided in principle, on the ground. mr president, i would like the socialist group to comment on this.
you are in favour of conditions, but i am not going to ask the socialist group now whether it accepts your conditions, because then we would be staging a negotiation in the house and i do not think it would be appropriate. does anyone wish to speak out against it?
we shall be voting on the socialist group's proposal to replace the item on bangladesh with the item on burma. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.) (the proposal was rejected) the question of lampedusa remains on the agenda. no request for amendment was made for the partsession of 27 and 28 april. (parliament adopted the agenda as amended)
the first point we are going to deal with is the requests for a minute's speaking time from members. i shall first address those who have taken the trouble to address the presidency beforehand, indicating their intention to speak and the subject on which they wished to speak. i shall be alternating between the different political groups to which the applicants belong. first of all, i would like to ask mr de grandes pascual to speak.
mr president, when in this very plenary session the european parliament will inexcusably demand from bulgaria and romania guarantees of a clear separation of powers in their legal systems, with unequivocal independence of the judiciary, for their full integration into the european union; when the european union successively ratifies in these days a constitutional treaty for europe, which enshrines the division of powers as an essential part of its constitutional architecture, in this context it is a sad duty for me to denounce the regressive attitude of the spanish socialist government and its frontal attack on the independence of the judiciary.
mr. de grandes, would you excuse us for a moment, please? you may leave the chamber if you wish. i would ask those who wish to leave the chamber to do so, but do not turn the corridors into a place of banter for me, preventing the normal running of the sitting. leave the chamber if you wish, but please do not hold any discussions in the corridors. you can go ahead, mr. de grandes.
thank you for your protection, mr. president. the facts are clear: the government of mr. rodríguez zapatero has completed a reform of the organic law of the judiciary by which the pre-existing pact for justice is broken, the rules of the game are changed midway through the term of office of the general council of the judiciary, justice is dealt with by preventing any appointment from prospering without the political approval of a blocking minority to the orders of the government. neither merit nor capacity will be relevant as conditions of eligibility for judicial office, but only affinity to a political minority. the situation is blocked, the council has been paralysed in its mission to fill vacancies for judges and magistrates. the scandal is of such magnitude, that some distinguished aspirant has renounced his legitimate claims, ashamed of the marketing that the negotiations on the appointments have become. the socialists, coming to power in the 1980s, emphatically proclaimed "montesquieu is dead".
i will take your consideration into account, mr beglitis. the house services will study it and, if appropriate, we will give it a course. i'm not going to let you go.
i'll consider your request. i shall be informed by the chamber's services and, if necessary, we shall give you a course of action. mr tannock has the floor.
i'll take note of your request. the house services will help me analyse it and, if appropriate, we will give it a course. mr pęk has the floor.
there are only two recorded requests for the floor. i call mr medina ortega to speak.
mr president, i regret the intervention of mr de grandes, who has misunderstood parliament. he has raised an issue which has to do with the structure of the functioning of the spanish institutions. at the moment, the socialist government is trying to restore the balance, which was seriously disturbed as a result of the previous people's party government's pressure on the judiciary. we hope that the popular party, within the spanish constitutional system, will be prepared to adopt a more flexible position, so that it will be possible to bring the spanish judicial system back to the standards of a state governed by the rule of law.
mr de grandes, are you asking for the floor on a point of order?
mr president, i am speaking on the basis of rule 145 of the rules of procedure, on personal grounds.
article 145 was already invoked by another member and i pointed out that this article refers to personal matters. i, frankly, don't think his character has been called into question.
mr president, i have been specifically quoted in relation to the fraudulent use of parliament.
you've been subpoenaed, but i don't think that...
mr president, i have been referred to, with a judgment of value.
i would not like the circumstances of my case to lead to a biased interpretation of my use of the rules of procedure, because that would be unfortunate, but it would not be the case, mr de grandes. i'll give you the floor. this is the second time this has happened and i shall have to send a circular to all members, clearly indicating to them the scope of article 145. you have the floor to reply, i will read the article, "to a personal fact"; and article 145 says that the speaker, in this case you, "cannot speak on the merits of the debate. you can only refuse circumstances that concern you personally". this is what article 145 says. you invoke it and i ask you to abide by it.
mr president, i have been specifically told that i have the wrong parliament. mr president, i have not misunderstood parliament. this is the forum in which the charter of fundamental rights must be defended, and the division of powers, which is the title i asked about, is being harassed in my country, unfortunately, and i have wanted to denounce it at union level. because when we demand that other countries respect us, we have to start by respecting them ourselves. that is the misfortune of this moment and i have denounced it in this parliament.
thank you very much. it is doubtful whether his statement was on the merits of the case or not; we will have to clarify the scope of this article. mr medina, i beg you not to insist on the subject because we will enter into an endless chain. i ask you to be reasonable and not to insist, because we cannot understand that you have now been personally alluded to. i thank you, mr medina.
the agenda for the annual debate on the area of freedom, security and justice is as follows. it is a series of oral questions. mr cavada has the floor.
thank you very much, mr. rack. the presidency fully shares its reservations about the evening partsession. the floor now goes to mr de grandes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the new european reality has a very particular impact on territories such as spain and others, which have become peripheral in relation to the situation of the main european markets. for these peripheral countries, the likelihood of having to travel longer distances is much higher than for the central countries, which have a greater proximity between the centres of production and consumption. in order to try to alleviate these circumstances, we believe that it is fair to establish flexibility schemes to prevent adverse geography from progressively reducing the competitiveness of transport in the union. in this situation, the legislative effort is excessive and rigid rules may lead to an imbalance in the conditions faced by carriers in peripheral countries rather than to harmonization. the obligation to take a new rest period after six consecutive driving periods means that long-distance drivers are often unable to return to their places of origin and therefore have to take weekly rest breaks along the route. this is a real shame, because the conditions of rest are often far from those necessary to maintain a reasonable level of quality of life: confinement and isolation in a motorway rest area, without adequate housing or hygiene conditions, in a distant country and, moreover, without the possibility of moving away from vehicles for fear of being robbed. the situation is all the more bleeding because, in theory, these are measures which are said to be aimed at guaranteeing them adequate resting conditions. the recognition of the long distance concept has been picked up in other sectors, such as high-altitude fishing. in the field of transport, french legislation also distinguishes between short-distance and long-distance drivers. it is essential to distinguish between these two cases in order not to penalise long-distance drivers or the legitimate interests of peripheral countries.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i want to say that i have listened carefully to your various speeches. i do not need to insist, mr rapporteur, and a number of you have pointed this out: we do not want to legislate for the sake of legislating, it is about road safety. we still have many road deaths throughout europe and we must be very sensitive to this. we also need fair competition between carriers and we must think about these carriers and their working lives. i am one of those who believe that when a profession is practised according to a certain number of rules, it also allows the worker to give the best of himself and often to be more efficient. i would like to start by returning to a general idea that i think many of you share. the problem is that it is not enough to define rights, but also to create the conditions for the exercise of those rights. in other words, great attention must be paid to the applicability of the rules. rules must be applicable because they must be applied. this is very important. our discussion focused on two subjects: vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes. the commission is prepared to study the matter in depth. if you'll allow me, i suggest we make an appointment to see how we can meet any needs that may arise. i believe that in this area we must act with intelligence and pragmatism. if we have to go further, mr rapporteur, i am not saying no a priori, but we have to look at the scope of these rules. i have listened carefully to a number of speakers, including the authors of amendments such as mr grosch and mr jarzembowski, on the problem of tachographs. i am sure that the commission will be able to give you a clear answer to this question, and i hope that you will be able to give me the opportunity to explain why the commission is still very keen to see this system put into effect as soon as possible. i would remind you that article 2 of regulation no 2135/98, which introduces the digital tachograph, provides that vehicles put into circulation for the first time more than two years after the date of publication of the technical specifications must be equipped with a digital tachograph. the technical specifications were published on 5 august 2002 and the regulatory date was normally set at 5 august 2004. however, as the manufacturers of digital tachographs had not been able to supply the equipment in time, my predecessor, loyola de palacio, rightly adopted a moratorium providing for transitional measures for the member states and postponing the mandatory introduction of the digital tachograph on new lorries until 5 august 2005. the council insisted that this date be included in the legal text on driving and rest periods. for the commission, the date of 5 august 2005 already represents a year's delay compared to the deadline. i think it is necessary, and i say this in all sincerity, to send a clear signal to industry and to the member states. that is why we want, as far as possible, to see a rapid agreement on the draft directive and regulation on your table today. on the technical side - because we have to make sure that everything is ready on that side too - i would like to give you some information. certificates of approval for digital tachographs were granted to actia in june 2004, to vdo siemens in october 2004 and to several card manufacturers. a card security system has been set up by the commission's joint research centre. tachonet, a system to ensure that each driver has only one driver card, has been operational since august 2004. all major car manufacturers have started experimenting with digital tachographs in their vehicles and may be ready by the august 2005 introduction deadline. a tachograph manufacturer i met personally told me that he was able to supply the number of tachographs needed by car manufacturers by may 2005. training programmes are being developed for drivers and transport operators and member states are cooperating to provide similar courses for their enforcement staff. i would add, ladies and gentlemen, and i would stress this a little, that if we accept a postponement of the date of introduction of the digital tachograph, we are exposing ourselves to legal action by the professionals who are prepared. as regards catalytic converters, it is true that there was not yet an absolute legal decision, but they were nevertheless put in place as soon as the industry supplied these catalytic converters. i believe that there are times when the union must take the lead. i am very concerned about realism and respect for our industries, but i believe very sincerely that a further postponement would not be good for either of us. that is why i have listened very carefully to your comments on this point. that is what i wanted to say, mr president. i thank parliament and i see once again how interesting it is to be able to hold this dialogue between the council and parliament. this is the way to achieve a balanced and applicable legislation.
thank you very much, commissioner. we are thus concluding the debate on this point, which will be voted on wednesday.
we now move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on the report by mr navarro (a6-0055/2005) on short sea shipping.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr navarro on his excellent report. i think, and the report by the committee on transport and tourism shows, that short sea shipping is a matter on which there is broad agreement between parliament, the member states and the commission. we all know that short sea shipping is an excellent method, but it could still be developed. it is the only mode of transport capable, apart from rail, of coping with the development of road transport. so more money must be given to the short sea shipping industry. i would like to draw attention to some key elements of your report, mr navarro. we certainly need an integrated approach to make short sea shipping a true door to door concept. the new definition presented in the recitals of the report can inspire and contribute to this integration. the intermodal dimension of this new definition can complement the modal definition established in 1999 and commonly accepted in europe. in addition, considerable work has been done to overcome the obstacles to this development of short sea shipping. let me mention the directive on imo-fal standard forms for ships arriving in and leaving ports, based on the convention of the international maritime organization and aimed at facilitating international maritime traffic. with this directive, the number of different forms in force in europe has fallen from more than fifty to only five. in addition, the commission has repeatedly raised customs issues. the ongoing development towards a one-stop shop for administrative formalities and electronic communication will further facilitate short sea shipping. the efficiency of ports is obviously crucial for short sea shipping and the adoption of a new proposal for a directive on access to the market for port services should help us, although i have noted the concern of parliament to be very attentive to how we finalise this text. an effective way of promoting the intermodal image of short sea shipping is through the business-oriented work carried out by the short sea shipping promotion centres. these national centres are promoting this mode, which is of course commercially neutral. at present, 17 of these centres are operating in europe to relay our policies and mr navarro was right to highlight all these efforts. the motorways of the sea are a special - i would say, labelled - form of short sea shipping. they combine superior quality with concentration in quantity. by linking ports to the trans-european transport networks, they will be able to bypass land-based bottlenecks and create more cohesion. i want to pay special attention to this initiative so that the legal text becomes reality and is applied. the marco polo programme, in particular the future marco polo ii programme, will play a crucial role in the implementation of the motorways of the sea and will be able to provide additional financial resources for eligible projects. considerable work is being done to make short sea shipping a success. however, we must intensify our efforts to achieve better results in the future. i therefore thank parliament and the rapporteur for the work they have done. i am convinced that we will continue to work together to ensure that short sea shipping can develop. i am sure that it will make a great contribution to the whole freight transport policy, which remains essential for our great single european market. i thank you, mr navarro, and i shall now listen to the comments that follow the report, mr president.
mr navarro, this was your first report, but i assure you it is the last in which you have spoken for so long. we now turn to the speakers on behalf of the groups. i call mr jarzembowski on behalf of the group of the european people's party.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would of course like to respond very positively to this new offer of dialogue launched through mr navarro's report, to whom i would like to thank once again. the concept of motorways of the sea is beginning to become a reality. the opening of a new motorway between toulon and civitavecchia, near rome, at the end of the week, showed the way. the concept of motorways of the sea is now integrated into the transeuropean networks. i hope, mr president, that the financial perspective will allow us to make room for the motorways of the sea. i recognise that the collection of statistics will need to be improved and updated. the european parliament's definition - and i am thinking of what you yourself, mr rapporteur, and mr jarzembowski and a number of you have stressed - provides useful guidance for integrating maritime transport into the intermodal chain, including inland waterway transport. the states, regions and cities must be encouraged to establish the necessary cooperation. we're in the intermodal, we have to go all the way. there is no competition with rail transport but on the contrary complementarity. similarly, river and sea transport can also be very fortunately complementary. that is why i personally believe that short sea shipping has real potential - one of you said a great future - and should enable us to reduce congestion on our roads and thus offer europe additional means of mobility. i would therefore like to thank parliament for providing us with a number of elements in this report which i hope will be used to launch an even more ambitious policy for short sea shipping.
thank you very much, commissioner. the vote on the motions for resolutions will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
this court is adjourned. see you tomorrow, your lords.
the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken the initiative to present a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emea) to the european parliament and the council, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of an european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emea) to the european parliament and the council.
the rapporteur. mr president, i agree with my colleague terry wynn that this exercise has been a truly exciting one. we have had a great deal of communication, both with the commission and, above all, with the heads of the agencies, who have lent and have lent us all the necessary information throughout the procedure, and also with the court of auditors. the creation of agencies, which now have a number of important actions, such as the regulation or implementation of certain actions or promotion, makes us wonder whether there are too many or too different models and whether they are all necessary, although parliament has intervened in many of them, especially in demand. this decentralisation of community action through its agencies has a very positive aspect, namely that the european union is closer to the member states, more accessible and more visible, and that citizens are therefore better informed, and in this respect we propose that a comprehensive communication strategy be strengthened for these agencies, and that there is also greater capacity and agility to manoeuvre. but we must also recognize that there are strong risks, in the sense that decentralization may lead to a reduction in the control of budget implementation or to an overlap of activities with those of the commission or to moments of discoordination or even greater national conditioning against the community interest. in our report we have therefore asked for specific and in-depth reports from the commission and for a series of common proposals and guidelines to avoid these risks. we would like these common guidelines to be reflected in the interinstitutional agreement and to cover not only the mechanisms for strengthening control and budgetary responsibility for the implementation of budgets but also everything that concerns the harmonization of its staff and the application of all community rules to its staff. we would also like the commission to carry out a review and evaluation of the structure, especially sooner, since there are already renewals of the regulations, especially in view of the european added value of these agencies, that is, basically, their need for european action. we have also raised the need for greater cooperation with the court of auditors to increase transparency in the contradictory procedure prior to its report, because we have found that in the application of the timetable there have been problems at some points which prevented parliament from knowing exactly whether or not the problems which had been noted had been improved - and in that case, at what point - and whether, in the relationship between the court and the agencies or the commission, a positive conclusion had been reached. all of this, of course, is based on a positive declaration of reliability.
mr president, i would like to welcome and congratulate terry wynn on the excellent work he has done on his report. his experience is obvious and he has used it to ensure that our commission has done a much better job this time than in previous years. i agree with him that it is scandalous to hear again from the court of auditors that the accounts of our institution, the european union, are not reliable. it is a procedural problem and we all agree here that the system must be changed so that we can finally see the holy grail, which is a positive approval of our accounts. there is a fundamental problem: the sheer number of controls that make spending inefficient. as alexander stubb said, who has had control responsibilities in finland, as i had in spain, controls in the european union are greater than those in the member states and other institutions. and, of course, more and more controls only lead to worse spending, to missed opportunities, to officials not wanting to take any responsibility and to a loss of efficiency. we'll have to see how much control we want. not because cars go 20 km/h to avoid accidents, it benefits the public interest. so let's see how we do to put initiative first and think more about efficiency than controls. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on the report on the european parliament's accounts and i would like to say that we european members have practically no say in our own statute. we can't decide where we want to meet or where we don't want to meet. we are prisoners of the council's decision, and it is time that it was taken. but what doubt is there that, as long as i don't take it, it's better not to touch things and leave them as they are? we must have a statute with equal tax treatment for all, an argument which, we must not forget, is a substantial part of our statute and the way forward. thank you very much for the two seconds of tip you gave me, mr. president.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, in order to eradicate famine in the world, many things must be changed in the european union. the common agricultural policy, which is not very accurate in the allocation of funds, has made things difficult in europe and in many developing countries, especially in acp countries. on the one hand, europe should guarantee that the common agricultural policy is not being used to increase the benefits of large producers while small producers are in a very complicated situation. on the other hand, it should be guaranteed that product subsidies by the eu will not be an obstacle for the developing and acp countries. theoretically, the eu could help to eradicate poverty and famine in the world if it changed its agricultural policy. better conditions in the developing countries should mean benefits for europe and for the whole world. but before that, we also need to eradicate the very clear discrimination in the eu, which favours the big producers while small ones and thousands of farmers have to leave agriculture every year.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, malaria remains a disease closely linked to poverty. each year, more than a million people die from malaria, the vast majority of them children under five years of age. thus, malaria remains the leading cause of death among children in africa. the disease is most prevalent in africa, although other continents are also affected. the fight against malaria remains underfunded, even though the global fund to fight hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria, of which the european union is the main donor, has increased the resources available to countries in recent years. despite these global efforts and the efforts of the global south, the annual global resource shortfall is likely to reach usd 2.6 billion in 2007. as the countries most affected by this disease are also among the poorest, the majority of the resources needed will have to come from external partners, if countries are to be able to combat the disease and achieve the sixth millennium development goal. the european union must therefore increase its contribution through bilateral programmes and through the global fund. yet, we have effective tools to fight malaria. in 2001, the commission formulated a policy and action programme to combat the three main diseases of poverty, namely hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis. in 2004, the commission presented an overview of its work, which shows, among other things, that it has quadrupled its financial contribution to the fight against these diseases. this contribution includes an increased allocation for research. the commission's annual contribution to the global fund is eur 259 million for the period 2003-2006. it should enable it to support programmes proposed by countries for the production of insecticide-impregnated nets with sustainable efficacy and medicines. the commission also adopted a new policy framework to continue the fight against these diseases beyond 2007. this policy will be implemented in cooperation with the member states of the european union, with multilateral partners such as the world health organisation, the roll back malaria programme, and with the countries of the south, including the african union, civil society and the private sector. the main actions remain essentially the same. a strong focus on prevention measures, including insecticide-impregnated nets with long-term efficacy and the introduction of new anti-malarial drugs such as artemisinin-based combination drug formulations in countries experiencing resistance to current drugs. the commission will also continue to invest in research and development of preventive vaccines, diagnostic tools and new curative medicines. in order for the development of new tools and medicines to be equitable for those who need them, the social sectors, especially the health sector, obviously need to be strengthened through increased investment and human resources in health services.
i welcome this declaration by the commission on malaria because three years ago, when approving our contribution to the budget of the global fund to fight malaria, tuberculosis and aids, the commission accepted parliament's request to inform us regularly, and the previous commission did not always do so. also, in the fight against the infectious diseases linked to poverty, aids often takes center stage when tuberculosis and malaria claim more lives each year and the chances of success in their eradication are higher. just a few years ago, malaria seemed close to eradication in many countries; today it is the leading cause of death in sub-saharan africa, affecting more people and regions where it had already been eradicated. recent figures put the number of direct and indirect victims of malaria at over three million annually. it is good that the commission is encouraging debate on national protocols for the treatment of malaria, but this is not the most important thing if the aim is to include new therapeutic combinations, such as artemisinin and some other chemotherapeutic. insecticide-treated bed nets and intermittent preventive treatments significantly reduce morbidity and mortality, but to date only vietnam and some countries in latin america offer encouraging results. in africa, less than 10% of exposed children sleep protected by mosquito nets and systematic use of these nets protects only 1% of the population at risk. the commission, as a member of the governing council of the united nations fund for the fight against these diseases, should increase its attention to malaria and, in the light of experience, should do the same with the sixth and seventh framework programmes for research and technological development, to which we are contributing eur 400 million for research on these diseases, and thus relieve more people at a lower economic cost, although this brings less benefits to the pharmaceutical industry.
mr president, i support what the commissioner has said in his statement, and i believe that this is a debate on a colossal scandal that is taking place in the world and in our societies. the figures my colleagues have given are quite clear: 3,000 children die every day, particularly in sub-saharan countries, from a disease which has been perfectly studied and for which there are absolutely no shortcuts in terms of prevention and treatment. the challenge posed to our countries by this disease is a question on which the european union and the developed north in general are playing with their coherence, their credibility and, of course, their dignity. i therefore believe that if we are not able to deal with this problem effectively, we will have no moral authority to go and talk about values or human rights, specifically to talk about human rights in geneva to a country like cuba, which has been able to eradicate the evil on its territory and which has more doctors in sub-saharan africa fighting this evil than the 25 states of the european union put together.
the agenda includes the following items: recommendation by geoffrey van orden, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the application of the republic of bulgaria to join the european union (aa1/2/2005 - c6-0085/2005 - 2005/0901 (avc)) (a6-0082/2005), report by geoffrey van orden, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the application of the republic of bulgaria to join the european union (a6/2029 (ini)) (a6-0078/2005), recommendation by pierre moscovici, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on romania's application to join the european union (aa1/2/2005 - c6-0086/2005 - 2005/0902 (avc)) (a6-0083/2005), report by pierre bárdelkop moscovici, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on romania's application to join the european union (a6-0082/2005), and report by the commission on the financial contribution of the european union to the budget of the european union (a6-0090/2005), and report by the president of the commission, mr böhr dührkop dührkop, on the accession of romania (a7-0028/2005/ini) (a7-0090), and the financial contribution of the commission to the budget of the european union (a7-0031/2005/ini) (a7-0030).
the rapporteur. mr president, the european parliament's report, which was adopted unanimously last night, has two fundamental origins. firstly, the council's finding in march 2004 that the financial package proposed by the commission for bulgaria and romania is fair and balanced, completely excluding the other arm of the budgetary authority. secondly, the council intends to include in the annex to the accession treaty, for the years 2007 to 2009, fixed amounts of non-compulsory expenditure which become compulsory, thus undermining the institutional and budgetary powers of the european parliament. the european parliament deeply regrets that the council has systematically refused to agree to the drawing up of a joint declaration with parliament on the financial implications of the accession of these two countries. the council's lack of will means a lack of loyal cooperation in the spirit of the interinstitutional agreement. parliament strongly rejects this infringement of its budgetary powers. in this annex, where the figures will be fixed, parts of the annex which are the sole responsibility of the european parliament become mandatory. parliament therefore calls on the council to adopt this joint declaration. we leave this door open before the signing of the accession: that the council should put this joint declaration into effect. it should also be stressed that the council should be very clear that by its refusal it is sending a very bad signal to the future negotiations on the financial perspective.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the founding fathers of the community clearly stated in the treaty of rome in 1957 that they were 'determined to lay the foundations of an ever closer union between the peoples of europe'. in the preamble to the treaty, the member states call on the other peoples of europe - including those who were then divided - who share the same ideals of peace and freedom to join them in their project of building a united europe. tomorrow, by adopting the relevant opinions on the completion of the fifth enlargement of the union, which includes bulgaria and romania, the european parliament will enable the union to take a decisive step in the process of unifying our continent. it is a new step in the unification process, as the bulgarian and romanian nations are finding their place in a europe with a common history, heritage and culture. the two countries thus find their true place in a continent open to culture, knowledge and social progress, as the preamble to the constitution emphasizes. by your assent, you are making a crucial contribution to a europe without dividing lines, a europe of democracy, freedom, peace and progress, sharing the same values as those enshrined in the constitution for europe. moreover, the accession of these two countries to the union is first and foremost an adherence to these values, to this european model to which european citizens, all european citizens, are attached. our noblest ambition, shared by the citizens of these two countries, who have regained their freedom after nearly five decades of sometimes terrible oppression, is precisely to anchor these countries in these values. i would like to ask the honourable member a simple question: what convinced european, who wants to move europe forward along the path of democracy and human rights, but also social rights, can reasonably take the risk of rejecting the charter of fundamental rights, which is an integral part of the constitution and which marks a fundamental step in the construction of our europe, a europe based on common values? (applause) i would like to thank the two countries were also fully involved in the drafting of this constitution, which will provide a stronger basis for europe. the success of this enlargement depends not only on the concrete efforts of bulgaria and romania in the process of reforming their societies. it also needs the support of our citizens, who must understand the significance of this enlargement for the stability of our continent. the european parliament has a vital role to play in giving political legitimacy and credibility to this process. this fifth enlargement process, launched in 1997 by the luxembourg european council, has been a global, inclusive and evolving process. the twelve states involved have all done so under the same conditions and have been called upon to join the european union on the basis of the same criteria. it was carried out in stages, at the pace of each candidate country, depending on its level of preparation. this has ensured that each state is able to join the european union with equal opportunities but also with the same obligations. at the european council in december 2002, which decided on the accession of the 10 new member states, the one europe declaration underlined the continuity, inclusiveness and irreversibility of the enlargement process, clearly announcing our aim to welcome bulgaria and romania as new member states in 2007. the accession negotiations have not always been easy - the commission certainly knows something about this - but i think that the results contained in the accession treaty are fair and appropriate and are broadly comparable to those of the negotiations with the ten new member states. bulgaria and romania now have about 20 months to complete their preparations for accession. in its last regular reports, the commission considered that, in view of the progress made by these two countries, the results obtained in implementing their commitments and the preparatory work under way, these two countries should be ready to join the union on 1 january 2007. the commission confirmed this conclusion in its favourable opinion of 22 february on the accession of the two countries. the european council considered that bulgaria and romania will be able to meet all the obligations of accession, provided that both countries continue their efforts within the time limits, complete all the necessary reforms and honour all the commitments made in each of the areas of the acquis. you are aware of the legitimate questions about the correct and timely implementation of the acquis, particularly in the field of justice and home affairs, as regards romania, and in particular competition and environment policy. there are no shortcuts to membership. the credibility of the process depends on the fact that each country can only join on the basis of the same political and economic criteria and on its ability to fulfil all the obligations arising from membership. this implies the existence of the administrative and judicial capacity necessary to carry out this task. bulgaria and romania are fully aware of what is expected of them as future member states. from the very beginning of the accession negotiations, the union has emphasized what accession to the european union implies: full acceptance of all the actual and potential rights and obligations of the union system and its institutional framework, including the constitution, in which i have the greatest confidence, and the effective and real implementation of the acquis. in the light of the reports by mr moscovici and mr van orden on the applications for accession of bulgaria and romania, i am convinced that we share the same analysis that these two countries should be able to join the union in january 2007 and to fulfil fully the obligations arising from their membership. in the meantime, the union will continue to support bulgaria and romania in their preparations by all means at its disposal. until accession, the europe agreements concluded in 1994 will continue to apply. they have worked well and have been a key element in preparing bulgaria and romania for accession. but it is clear that it is up to bulgaria and romania to do everything possible to be ready. we cannot underestimate the economic, social and political implications of this and the work done so far certainly deserves our respect. the european union will continue to follow closely the preparations made by both countries and the results achieved, including the effective implementation of the commitments. i can assure you that the luxembourg presidency takes the monitoring work - the so-called monitoring - very seriously. it is in the vital interest of both countries to be truly prepared. otherwise, they risk not being able to take full advantage of membership, for example if the implementation of sectoral safeguard clauses should prove necessary. we know the respective roles of the institutions in this context. let me get this straight: having regard to the assent opinions of the european parliament on the application for accession to the european union of the republic of bulgaria and romania, the council, if the commission submits to it a recommendation for the implementation of one of the safeguard clauses contained in the treaty of accession, shall act in this regard, taking due account of the position of the european parliament. the council is giving this assurance to parliament today, which is right to want to follow developments in both countries closely. a letter was sent in this connection by the president of the european council to the president of the european parliament, as has been pointed out. i repeat that enlargement can only succeed if it enjoys the broad support of the peoples of the union. you represent these people. you represent the citizens of europe. your voice must be heard, your appreciation should be fully taken into account when decisions should be taken on the implementation of safeguard clauses. in this connection, let me remind you that the work of the european parliament does not end with your assent. your political contribution to the enlargement process will continue to be valuable. we are grateful for the political support you have given to the process throughout its development, in particular through the open and constructive dialogue with your elected parliamentary partners in the bulgarian and romanian parliaments. in conclusion, let me remind you that the historic project you are discussing today is the accession of bulgaria and romania. they all agree that the accession of these two countries will be a decisive step towards overcoming the injustice and artificial division of europe. i would now like to say a word about the financial implications. as regards the financing of the enlargement to 27 with bulgaria and romania, i would like to point out that the negotiations with these two countries were conducted on the same basis and in accordance with the same principles as those applied to the 10 new member states. on the basis of a commission proposal, the member states approved a financial envelope for these two countries, which will cover a period of three years, as was the case for the ten. after that, the acquis will apply, including the next financial perspective. it's a matter of justice, of fair treatment, but also of predictability for both countries. we cannot negotiate without putting the cards on the table, especially with regard to the financial aspects in their first difficult steps as member states. it is clear that, given the date envisaged for the accession of these two countries, we are in a different context from that experienced by the ten new member states. that is why we have already established at the thessaloniki european council a key principle: discussions on future political reforms or new financial perspectives must not hinder the continuation and conclusion of the accession negotiations with bulgaria and romania. the results of these negotiations should not prejudge discussions or agreement on political reforms or new financial perspectives. i share your regret that it was not possible to reach an agreement between the council and parliament. we were pretty close to an agreement. is it the nervousness that is manifested - i think above all in the council, to be fair - before the difficult negotiations on the financial perspective that has prevented us from concluding this agreement? i repeat clearly that there may have been misunderstandings. perhaps some technical considerations have outweighed a positive political approach. i can assure you, on behalf of the presidency, that we do not believe that the budgetary and institutional powers and competences of the european parliament are in any way being called into question by the proposals tabled and that the interinstitutional agreement retains its full value. i cannot commit myself, as mr böge has asked me to do, to seek agreement on a declaration before the agreement is signed, but we will make one last effort and who knows?
member of the commission. mr president, following your positive resolutions in december, in february the commission adopted a favourable opinion on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. in fact, if they complete their homework successfully, these two countries will be represented in this house in less than two years’ time. they will take their places here as observers after the accession treaty. i wish to stress, as i did at the foreign affairs committee on 29 march, that president barroso and i have repeatedly underlined that while the conclusion of the negotiations and the signature of the accession treaty imply that agreement has been reached on the terms and conditions for the accession of bulgaria and romania, they do not mean that the preparations for membership are complete. in the remaining 21 months, bulgaria and romania must deliver on key reforms and fully meet the commitments they have made in the course of the negotiations. the clock is ticking. every day, every week, every month counts from now on. both countries are the subject of very close monitoring by the commission, by the member states and by parliament. they will remain so until the eve of accession. i want to reassure you that if the commission judges, on the basis of its monitoring, that either bulgaria or romania are manifestly unprepared for membership, i would not hesitate to recommend the use of the remedial tools. this includes the clause allowing us to postpone accession by one year until 2008. i am convinced that the honourable members of parliament will agree to this approach. i therefore look forward to a regular dialogue with you on the implementation of bulgaria and romania’s commitments. as president barroso confirmed in a letter to president borrell last week, the commission will seriously consider the views of parliament before issuing any recommendation on this issue, in particular after the release in november of our comprehensive monitoring report on the progress towards accession made by romania and bulgaria. for this, i would like to thank especially the committee on foreign affairs, its chairman, rapporteurs, and the coordinators for their cooperation and for a very sound solution. in my view, this respects the treaty and at the same time gives the european parliament a voice in the process in the spirit of true european democracy. i visited sofia in mid-march and bucharest at the beginning of march. let me give you a brief outline of the commission’s current assessment of the progress made by the two countries. mr van orden’s report on bulgaria welcomes the conclusion of the accession negotiations. the country has indeed made steady progress in recent years. nonetheless, bulgaria needs to keep up the momentum in its preparation for accession. we are watching this closely through our intensified monitoring mechanism. bulgaria needs to make sound and solid efforts to reform the judiciary, and to fight against corruption and organised crime. the reform of the judiciary, in particular of the pre-trial phase, is the overarching priority until accession. this is the priority of all priorities for bulgaria. let me turn to romania. in its opinion on romania, the commission called on the country to pursue with determination the reforms that still need to be made. in particular, this covers the effective implementation of reforms of the public administration and the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the fulfilment of the commitments made in the field of competition and state aid, as well as the environment. in his report, mr moscovici adds to these priorities organised crime and the control of external borders. i fully share his views. these must be among the critical conditions when we evaluate romania’s progress towards accession. romania has started to tackle the accession requirements seriously, especially in the field of justice reform and the fight against corruption. i am glad to say today that all the key strategic documents required as a result of the negotiations have recently been transmitted by the romanian government to the commission on time. these concern the fight against corruption, reform of the justice system and border security. the documents are currently being assessed by the commission. in another key area which we will be watching very closely, that of competition and state aid, romania has inter alia fulfilled its obligation to submit its national plan for steel restructuring, and has done this on time before the deadline. progress is also being made in the areas of police cooperation, where new laws on the gendarmerie and the national police have been adopted. romania is engaged in discussions to determine the shape of its future funding commitments regarding border management. the political determination now has to be further translated into concrete actions. based on my frequent meetings with the romanians in both bucharest and in brussels, i have a strong belief that the new government has understood the scope and the importance of the monitoring exercise, as well as the urgency to deliver concrete results in the first semester of 2005. in my view we have reason to be cautiously optimistic as regards romania’s preparation for accession. let us have a fair game. the jury is still out and it is now time to give romania the benefit of the doubt in terms of its preparations for accession as a fully-fledged member state of the european union. before concluding, let me briefly touch upon the financial implications of the accession of bulgaria and romania, to which mr smith referred in his speech. commissioner grybauskaitė has worked closely with the two rapporteurs mr böge and mrs dührkop dührkop, my former colleagues from the committee on budgetary control. the commission’s position on the matter is as follows. the amounts agreed in the accession negotiations with bulgaria and romania for the period 2007-2009 are included in the accession treaty. the financial perspective for 2007-2013 is to be broken into broad categories of expenditure for the eu-27, not on distinctions of allocations between certain groups of member states, some of which can only be very indicative anyway. the commission believes that distinguishing indicative amounts by certain groups of member states is not in line with the spirit and the letter of the interinstitutional agreement. to conclude, both the european commission and our financial assistance programmes will continue to support the efforts of the two countries to intensify their necessary preparations. the timely signature of the accession treaty is important with a view to sustaining the momentum and ensuring the successful preparation for the accession of bulgaria and romania. i count on your support in this respect.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, tomorrow will be a very important day for this parliament, for romania, for bulgaria and for all eu citizens. the aim is to approve the forthcoming signing of the accession treaty between the two countries, thereby completing the process of the fifth enlargement, bringing stability and progress to the south-east of europe and also making the dream of european reunification a reality. the opinion on romania which we are voting on tomorrow is consistent with the first moscovici report, which was approved by this parliament last december. in it we said yes to the timetable set for romania's accession and called for the deepening of a number of reforms in well-known areas. this opinion is also consistent with parliament's wish to remain closely associated with the process until effective accession in january 2007. i am referring to the follow-up of the reforms and also to the wish of this house to remain involved in the case of the activation of the so-called safeguard clauses. in this respect, i welcome the commitment that commissioner rehn has reiterated today to involve parliament fully in the process that remains until january 2007, and i also take note of the commitment expressed in this regard by the presidency-in-office of the council. we are certainly living through a momentous moment in the history of romania. i would like to stress the very broad support of the romanian people for the integration of their country into the union. it is a historic objective which has enormous support among the romanian people and also among the political forces in that country. i was able to see this again this morning at a meeting with leading parliamentarians from various romanian political parties. i am confident that the romanian authorities, encouraged by this broad support, will continue to implement with full determination and rigor the commitments undertaken in the accession treaty, as mr rehn has just explained to us. this is romanian european time. this is the priority task and i hope that tomorrow parliament will express its confidence that the romanian government will meet these expectations and therefore give its assent. parliament will follow with the greatest attention the progress made by romania towards integration. it deserves to be in the union not only because of its history, geography and culture, but also because of its european will and conscience.
mr president, after congratulating the rapporteurs, mr moscovici and mr van orden, i would like to say that the debate we are having here this afternoon goes beyond the importance, which is very great, of the accession of romania and bulgaria. the declaration made today by the commission and the council substantially strengthens the powers of this parliament and projects its validity beyond the strict limits of the assent procedure. this statement sets a very significant precedent which we cannot and must not ignore for the future. it is clear that the political and budgetary prerogatives of this parliament must be preserved and i believe, mr president, that this parliament should not shake its pulse to demand the fulfilment of the commitments which have been expressed here this morning 'in the event of any breach', but i understand that at this moment there is no reason for us to have any doubt or suspicion in this regard. just as i say that the prerogatives of parliament must be preserved, mr president, i also say that romania and bulgaria cannot become hostages to budgetary or political quarrels between the various institutions which at present make up the european union. that is why, mr president, i think that this parliament must adopt tomorrow, with the necessary precautions, which i believe are more than sufficient, the opinions in accordance with the terms proposed by the rapporteurs, in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the committee on foreign affairs, so that the treaty of accession can be signed on 26 april as planned. that said, mr president, the european parliament, by virtue of these statements made here today, has its powers intact to be able, if necessary, to play its proper role and in the meantime, i repeat, we must adopt tomorrow with all the caution which, in my opinion, is sufficient, the assent opinions which have been set out today.
mr president, the committee on agriculture and rural development stresses the political and economic importance of the accession of both romania and bulgaria to the european union. however, we must admit that we are faced with a problem in the case of the financial perspective. we cannot look at the accession treaties without taking account of the financial perspective, and even less so of the common agricultural policy. the financial cost of implementing the cap in these two candidate countries must be taken into account. in the case of agriculture, we cannot use the excuse that the financing of these two countries is within the limits agreed by the council. this agreement covered only expenditure for the union of 25 and only the 10 new countries, with the exception of romania and bulgaria. we in parliament want the agreements reached at the brussels summit in october 2002 to be respected, which ensured that the gradual introduction of new countries would take place in a framework of financial stability. in order to include the two new countries, which we agree with, the figure calculated for inclusion has to be increased to accommodate both romania and bulgaria within the common agricultural policy. that is the wish of parliament, and we hope that it will be fulfilled by both the council and the commission.
mr president, in supporting the reports we are discussing, the committee on industry, research and energy would like to stress that in the fields of research, energy, industrial policy and telecommunications, both countries need to make a further effort. they need to reform their industrial policy; they need to remove structural obstacles to investment and excessive bureaucracy; and they need to have a stable legislative environment to ensure an efficient strategy for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are real job creators and sources of technological innovation. they must also continue to work on an energy security policy. bulgaria has already taken steps to achieve a high level of safety at the kozludy nuclear power plant, and we welcome this. but significant reductions in power generation capacity are foreseen, so it is urgent to create new capacity and ensure security of supply. we ask the commission to follow this matter closely and to provide the necessary assistance in this regard. and for romania, the abandonment of inefficient thermal power stations and the management of non-viable coal mines are key challenges that require immediate social policy action to address the serious difficulties generated in employment. for all that, mr president, you must have our support.
member of the commission. the commission thanks the honourable members for their questions. the commission wants to stress on this occasion that it attaches the greatest importance to the freedom of information and the work carried out by journalists, often under very difficult conditions in conflict situations. we believe that in all armed conflicts like the one in iraq, respect for international laws and the principle of accountability should be fully applied for all operating forces. regarding the death of the journalist jose couso, as well as the more recent injury to an italian journalist and the death of an italian security agent, we regret such incidents and express our solidarity with the families of those involved. we obviously believe that all such cases should be thoroughly investigated by the relevant authorities. it is essential that the circumstances and the responsibilities be fully clarified and any necessary follow-up measures be taken swiftly and transparently. however, the steps required to ensure a proper investigation by the relevant authorities into the death of an eu national in a third country are the responsibility of the member states involved.
commissioner, i think it is important to defend the role of journalists as a fundamental element of democracy. in addition to regretting what has happened, madam commissioner, under the current treaties, i am not talking about the constitution, the commission and the council, not just the member states, have an obligation to defend the rights of european citizens in third countries, even in situations of conflict. and that is part of the question, because there are two problems here: one is the defence of freedom of information and the other is the defence of the rights of european citizens and their relatives in third countries. and so far, there has been no investigation by the us authorities that has criminal or compensatory consequences for the relatives of mr couso and the others killed in similar circumstances.
member of the commission. as i have mentioned, it is the responsibility of the member states. the former spanish government had undertaken no initiatives or formal protests. under current legislation in spain, members of the public may bring cases to the attention of investigating magistrates independently of law enforcement and other state agencies. in that respect, therefore, judge guillermo ruiz polanco of the audiencia nacional has commenced preliminary investigations. he thus accepted the lawsuit filed on 27 may by mr couso’s mother and siblings against three members of the third infantry division. i cannot say what the outcome will be, but that has been filed. as regards the italian government, it has expressed its formal protests to washington, firmly asking for an investigation into the causes of the fatal accident. parallel investigations are being carried out by the us military and italian judges, so again i would like to reiterate that it is the responsibility of the member states themselves to care for their own nationals.
madam president, commissioner, in addition to being citizens of the member states themselves, they are also european citizens, in accordance with the treaties. does the commission support the efforts being made by the competent courts in relation to the united states authorities?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. madam president, as rapporteur for the committee on fisheries, i should first of all like to express my regret that fisheries are not among the issues addressed in the annual political declaration. the fact is that this sector, which is crucial for many european regions, is facing problems which urgently require decisive action at community level to protect the income and employment levels of fishing communities and coastal areas. 2006 is also a crucial transitional year for the reform of the common fisheries policy, which will be supported by a new financial instrument, the european fisheries fund. the allocation for this fund seems to us clearly insufficient to meet our needs, which are supplemented by improved enforcement of the rules, greater guarantees of data protection and quality and objectivity in scientific information, and we are also asked to guarantee sustainable development and the proper management of natural resources, as well as support for the setting up of the new regional councils. we believe that it is essential to increase the budgetary resources available to the cfp in order to meet the real needs of a europe of 27.
author. madam president, the enlargement of the european union to 10 new states was undoubtedly an extraordinary event in our common history. never during those negotiations, which were clearly not easy, did any country subordinate what some call the reunification of europe to its national interests, however legitimate they may have been. the most difficult chapters of the negotiations were concluded during the spanish presidency of the union, which was the largest recipient of funds up to that time. the cost of enlargement is estimated at eur 200 billion. in this debate the european commission is being asked to say how it proposes to divide this sum between the former 15 member states. because the contrasting information we have had access to allows us to say that the european commission's proposal is not fair in this respect. is it not true that ireland, portugal, spain and greece are proposed to make an effort which, in relation to their gdp, is three times the average of the union, far exceeds all net taxpayers and, for example, four times what is proposed for germany? if that is the case, madam commissioner, the european commission has the responsibility to propose, in the context of the negotiations for the renewal of the financial perspective, a compensation mechanism for these countries which would offset the sharp fall in their net balance with the union and thus avoid jeopardizing their process of real convergence.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i share the commissioner's concern that we do not have enough time for such an important issue. the former 15 were in a position to take on the enlargement. however, as has been mentioned here, it is true that the countries which paid the most for this enlargement will lose, as a statistical effect, the cohesion fund contributions. i am very glad that commissioner hübne has said that she will try, in the negotiations with the council, to create some compensatory instrument or a gradual exit, a facing out, as we have seen in the regional funds. because, for example, the loss of the cohesion fund in the case of spain is particularly dramatic, as it suffers a sudden reduction in its net operating balance equivalent to 0.91% of gnp. in this commission proposal, and this is the question we have asked, the signatories - myself included - express their concern about the lack of equity in the distribution of the financial effort to deal with enlargement; concern that the principle of equity is being violated in accordance with the latest conclusions of the european council, which calls for equity in funding to be respected.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in particular, they contain stronger wording for the prospect of further reductions in the future, clarification of the date of application in the north sea, conditions for the supply and distribution of fuel so that ship operators are aware of their obligations, exemption from the application of the limits on the distance from the quay for ships using clean energy from shore, obligation for ships using emission reduction technology to have continuous emission monitoring equipment. even more important is the compromise package which contains much stronger wording on the possibility of even lower thresholds, which may reach up to 0.5% at the time of the commission's review in 2008. the amendment to the review clause requires the commission to investigate the economic effectiveness of any further measures, to take account of the development of emission reduction technologies, to consider proposals for the introduction of economic instruments to incentivise industry to develop new environmental technologies. i know that all these elements were of great importance to parliament at first reading and to the committee responsible. while we have not been able to include the 0.5% sulphur limit now to form the second phase of the directive, i can assure you that we are committed to considering the possibility of a 0.5% limit in the near future. recognising that the new 1,5% sulphur limit for marine fuels will remain 1500 times higher than the sulphur content of road transport fuels, the commission firmly believes that shipping can and should lower this limit in order to maintain its environmental credibility. this is why the commission has prepared a statement clearly stating its commitment to a far-reaching review of the directive in 2008. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. in conclusion, madam president, the commission is very satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs hassi, again for her efforts to reach an agreement at the second reading. the commission can accept all the proposed compromise amendments (commission position on parliament's amendments: see annex).
the agenda now includes the debate on the report by the european council and the commission's statement on the european council meeting in brussels on 22 and 23 march this year. first of all, on behalf of the council, i would like to give the floor to its president-in-office, mr juncker.
the rules are the same for everyone, mrs. muscardini.
mr president, the european economy is going through a delicate situation. the recent european summit coincides with a downward revision of the european commission's economic growth forecasts and therefore with a revision not only of growth but also of job creation. what we are told is that in the europe of 2005 the unemployment rate will rise and we will have an economic stagnation. and that is negative and that is what we have to respond to by launching clear messages, messages of confidence to consumers and messages of confidence to investors. the problem with the european economy is the lack of confidence, which comes from economic policies that are not able to instill that confidence. the lisbon agenda, the stability pact and the liberalisation of services are key elements in building that trust. and here we have lost an opportunity in the month of march. we have lost the opportunity to make a commitment to sound public finances and we have examples of this within europe. the countries which have made an effort to clean up their budgets are the ones which are growing and creating jobs in europe. the countries which have made the structural reforms contained in the lisbon agenda are the countries which are certainly growing and creating jobs within the european union. we cannot talk about a european social model without looking at these countries and we cannot make a complacent speech when what has been done is a revision of the stability pact based on the political interests of large countries that are not growing and are not creating jobs and when doubts are being introduced about the very nature of the stability pact and also distrust regarding the economic reforms that the european union needs. this is the opportunity you have before you, mr barroso, to make your project of europe being the growth and jobs we all want to see come true.
the next item is the voting period. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
mr daul, judging by the applause, i see that your concern is shared by many members of parliament. i would point out to you and to everyone that we are only voting on the agenda for plenary sessions at the moment. the conference of presidents will then discuss the weeks corresponding to committees, groups, etc. i know that everything is already pretty much set, but in any case today's vote does not define the periods of committee meetings, but only the plenary. - before the vote on amendment no 5
mr goebbels, the presidency appreciates your wry comments, but you have interrupted the voting procedure.
you had tabled an amendment rejecting the whole thing, which is not intended to be possible, and therefore your amendment has not been put to the vote. only partial amendments to the calendar can be voted on.
can the council confirm the amendment resulting from the amendment announced by mr lewandowski?
president of the council. mr president, after a number of contacts we were able to establish, we were able, in collaboration with the members of parliament who took part in this exercise, to agree on the financial and budgetary terms of accession for bulgaria and romania. we have just concluded a trilogue and i was pleased to see that there is a comprehensive agreement on this point. i would like to warmly congratulate all those who have contributed to it. (applause) i would like to thank
for the sake of clarity, that means, if i understand it correctly, that paragraph 1 of the motion for a resolution should say, instead of 'it regrets that the council did not agree', 'it is pleased that the council agrees to adopt the joint declaration'.
no decision has been taken at the moment because parliament has not yet voted. (laughter and divergent reactions) there is an amendment which the council has ratified and which i have tabled before.
for the sake of complete clarity, the joint statement by the presidency and the council, which was not accepted until now and is now accepted, is included in the annex to the draft resolution.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr böge rightly pointed out that it would have been better, more reasonable, more intelligent and wiser, if we had been able to take the decision we have just taken in time. i would like to point out that this has not been a failure of the presidency. (applause from the centre) i'm going to convey our collective regret, the regret of the house and the presidency, to the three capitals that we had to negotiate with until five minutes ago. (applause from the centre and the right)
the presidency has not understood the point of order. (laughter and applause)
mr salafranca, i hope your point of order is more intelligible.
i hope so too, mr president, and i think that when i put it out it will be easily understandable, especially to an intelligence as agile as yours. mr president, i simply wanted to say that, in the light of the oral amendment we have just voted on in the böge/dührkop report, amendments no 2 to the assent of mr van orden and mr moscovici, tabled by our political group, no longer make sense and i wanted to announce before the vote that we are withdrawing them because they are incompatible with what we have just voted on.
for the sake of clarity, the amendment in question exists and is tabled by the greens/efa group and other members. - the 9th amendment
according to our rules of procedure, after hearing the proposer's arguments, one member may speak in favour and one against.
let's apply the rules. the greens/efa group will know what to do. they're all of legal age. i call mr swoboda to speak.
mr nassauer has the floor to intervene.
mr president, i understood that you understood the motion for a resolution i tabled earlier to withdraw amendments 2 to this report and to the report by mr moscovici.
mr salafranca, it has been withdrawn and cannot be voted on.
the voting procedure provides for the possibility of voting in favour, against, abstaining or not taking part in the vote. i call mr wurtz to speak against the motion.
i have the floor for a statement in favour of the proposal by mr voggenhuber.
president of the council. the council has repeatedly condemned the massacre of civilians, including journalists, and has always stressed the need for the authorities concerned to carry out thorough investigations whenever incidents occur. the council is aware that many incidents remain unclear and have not yet been sufficiently investigated. it will continue to raise the case of these incidents and call for timely investigations. as regards the specific incident referred to in the questions, the investigation carried out by the us authorities concluded that there was no fault on the part of the us forces. the victim's family, however, has filed a lawsuit against the u.s. soldiers involved. in these circumstances, the council does not consider it appropriate to comment on this case.
mr president, mr minister, your answer is very disappointing because we are trying, or have been trying, to sell to the whole of european citizenship that, from the treaty establishing a constitution, everything that means common security will require a unitary policy of all the member states. five days ago, the second anniversary of the death of this journalist was marked, and what is being asked of the european union is not only to use the judicial route, to which the families have already resorted, but also to politically demand an impartial investigation from the american government. everyone knows that the place where this journalist died, the palestine hotel, was a non-military target which had to be protected and in which all the accredited international press were present, and therefore the response of the american authorities is not to be welcomed and it would be desirable, on the part of the presidency-in-office of the council, to make a strong and clear request to the american government for an impartial investigation to be opened. i therefore regret that answer and hope that it will be considered so that the need for such an inquiry can be raised more firmly.
mr. minister, i'm a little disappointed in your answer. it is to say that, since the family reacted and is taking legal action, defending the interests of a brother, a cousin, therefore someone they loved, the council has nothing to say. that means, if we understand the answer you have just given in this chamber, that the council would have reacted only if the family had been inactive, which is a totally incomprehensible, if not intolerable, response. two things at once. either you have the courage, on behalf of the council, to say that you are perfectly satisfied with the investigation carried out by the american authorities, which is your right, but in that case, have the courage to say that the investigation by the american authorities, which considers that nothing has happened, fully satisfies the council. have the courage to say that in public, in this room. either you say you're not satisfied and you're going to demand more explanations. but passivity is never the answer. and it doesn't help bring people closer to their government and their institutions.
president of the council. the importance which the european union attaches to relations with the andean community and to progress in its integration is clearly shown by the summit between the european union and the guadalajara summit in may 2004. the heads of state or government welcomed the decision of the parties concerned to start the process leading to an association agreement, including a free trade area, now. this perspective should give new impetus to the strengthening of the regional integration process. in the meantime, the preliminary joint evaluation phase has begun - this is a technical evaluation - and the joint ministerial meeting scheduled for the end of may in luxembourg will be a further opportunity to deepen this subject, which is essential for our future relations. the european union welcomes the reiterated willingness of the andean political representatives to continue along this path as well as the process of rapprochement between mercosur and the andean community. on the question of the fight against drugs, the european union welcomes the meetings with the andean countries in the high-level specialised framework on drugs and precursors, the next of which will be held in lima in the first half of this year. the two sides will continue their efforts to combat this scourge through a cooperative and co-responsible approach. in terms of trade policy, the european union gives priority to the andean countries in the framework of the proposed gsp+. pursuing the objective of building lasting political relations on the interest and participation of the peoples, the council stressed the important contribution made by the meeting with representatives of civil society in the andean countries in brussels on 3 march.
mr president, i appreciate the explanations given to me by the president-in-office of the council and i simply wanted to ask a short supplementary question. in connection with the progress of the negotiations with these countries, as at the same time there is talk of the creation of a wider latin american system, particularly through the union between the andean community and mercosur, i wanted to know whether the negotiations with mercosur and the andean community have any relation, are they parallel negotiations or are they being linked in some way.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i think we can all agree that fighting doping in sport is not only about clean sporting competition but also about the health of our citizens. the fight against doping in sport must therefore be clearly one of our political objectives, as it is in many of our countries. i want to address this issue by stressing the need to give a european dimension to anti-doping research. some countries in the european union have already included in their anti-doping plans research programmes both on what can be considered new doping substances and their effects on the human body and on the possibility of equipping laboratories with better and more appropriate instruments for the detection of these substances. in other countries, such as my own, spain, the government has already announced specific research programmes to be included in the national r & d plan. but it is obvious that this issue has a clear international dimension, and it is therefore very important that the european union also supports the inclusion of anti-doping research in our research and development plans. i put this question to commissioner potočnik in his first appearance before the committee on industry, research and energy of our parliament, who expressed interest in the proposal and undertook to study it. i would encourage the commission to take important action in this respect from this perspective. i also think, mr president, that such an initiative would also be in keeping with article iii-282 of the new european constitution, which speaks of developing the european dimension of sport, promoting fairness in order to compete on equal terms and protecting the physical and moral integrity of our sportsmen and sportswomen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mr borg for the information he has given us on the progress of the negotiations on the convention on cultural diversity. the convention on cultural diversity must be a genuine instrument of international cooperation, protecting and promoting the diversity of cultural content and artistic expressions in the face of the pressures of globalisation and international trade policy. it should also ensure the pluralism of the audiovisual media and recognise the key role of public services, in particular broadcasting. the council decision authorising the european commission to negotiate on behalf of the union is a positive development. however, and despite the great precedent it has in the union, i would like to stress the need for the european parliament to be kept informed of the content and timing of the negotiations and for the views of civil society to be taken into account. given the dual nature of cultural services and products as economic goods on the one hand, but also as vectors of the identity of peoples, i would like to stress that their regulation must also take account of their specific nature, including that of workers in the sector. finally, i welcome the proposal to create an observatory for cultural diversity at unesco, which will operate in collaboration with professional organisations, and i call on the commission and the members of the international community, especially the united states, canada and mexico, to support this convention as a binding normative instrument. its adoption at the next unesco general conference in october 2005 would make it possible to take these objectives into account in the world trade organisation's trade negotiations in the field of culture.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission appreciates the hard work and close attention to detail by parliament’s committee on fisheries in preparing for this debate with regard to the two files in front of parliament this morning. the objective of the measures we are contemplating is that of safeguarding the needs of future generations from the demands of the present population. this is what we define as sustainability and we see long-term management plans as the right legislative instrument for achieving this. i am pleased to note that parliament is broadly in agreement with our thinking. as always, our shared commitment to achieving sustainability in fisheries remains unwavering. we cannot overstate this principle. our aim remains common, but our approach may be somewhat different. in this instance we have some differences concerning the details. with regard to the plan for southern hake and norway lobster we have held consultations with parties involved concerning the fisheries that catch these species, often catching them together in mixed fisheries. we agree that there should be the possibility for state aid to fishermen involved in these fisheries, but these should be applied equitably to all fishermen who may find themselves in similar situations, and should therefore be applied in the context of the european fisheries fund. we consider that the limits on tac changes should be plus or minus 15% to be in accordance with scientific advice. there is no technical basis to choose a different value. however, i accept that this limit should be applied from the first year of the plan’s implementation. we should not intentionally delay stock recovery if this is feasible within the plan. recovery should occur as soon as possible and in no later than ten years. we appreciate that there are special difficulties in the gulf of cadiz and that uncertainties are high. however, to be consistent with the precautionary approach that has been agreed in the un and in community legislation, greater uncertainty cannot be a reason to apply more lax conservation measures. we can agree to the exclusion of the gulf of cadiz from the same effort management scheme as elsewhere, if an alternative but equally effective management system is in place. after discussions with stakeholders on this point we can now agree to remove the closed areas originally proposed for nephrops, but we think they should be replaced with other closed areas that are better adapted to protecting the stock. nephrops stocks require conservation measures to restore their ability to support significant fisheries. i agree that bay of biscay sole could be moved to a management plan in accordance with its less serious biological state, but western channel sole should remain the subject of a recovery plan. legally, a management plan cannot be applied to western channel sole until it is inside safe biological limits. we are convening a scientific meeting of stecf to look at options for target fishing mortalities for sole that will be consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and with international commitments at the un and the fao. therefore, we have to reserve our position until we have seen the results of this evaluation.
the rapporteur. i would like to remind you that with only one vote against, which i am very grateful to all my colleagues for, this report makes significant changes to the commission's proposal for measures to restore cod and cichlid stocks in iberian waters. the recovery target proposed by the commission for cod was based on fishing mortality, whereas my report proposes, as recommended by the scientists, the achievement of an appropriate level of biomass, supplemented by a system of limiting fishing effort by geographical areas and grouping fishing gear. the commission has already proposed a system of calculating effort based on kilowatts of power, which we consider too complicated, and we therefore propose that it be based on days at sea and that a system of co-responsibility for fishermen in the control of fisheries be introduced. the period of application, commissioner, is not negotiable for us. for this recovery plan, it is not enough to implement or decide on five years. we would be happy to see the fisheries sector recover in five years, but the ten years, as opposed to the five proposed by the commission, are intended to allow the sector to adapt gradually and more flexibly and to ensure the greatest possible stability of fishing activity, without prejudicing the final objective, which is the recovery of resources, which is desired by everyone, not just the commission. i have also modified and lightened the quantities laid down in the proposal on weighing, by-catch and other technical measures, so that the margins of tolerance will be similar to those in other existing schemes. as regards the forecasts for the cigala fishery, everyone knows today that the areas of the proposal are not adapted to the situation of the stocks or to the duration, since it is proposed that it should be indefinite. mr commissioner, according to the reports drawn up by the ieo, only one of the proposed areas has concentrations of cigala of a certain size and these are in a much more limited area than that indicated by the commission, at depths of 100 to 140 metres, so we believe that the ban, if it is introduced, should be limited both in space and in its duration, between may and august. the commission tends to forget something: the socioeconomic impact. the commission proposal, mr commissioner, is entirely concerned with conservation of resources, without any reference to the socioeconomic realities involved in its implementation, and i can assure you that if the commission proposal as it stands is implemented, it would be dramatic for the sector, because the proposed bans on cigala will in practice render all trawling in iberian waters invalid and impossible, and we are talking about multi-species fisheries in which cigala represents barely 1% of the total catches made by these fleets. i have indeed considered it appropriate to introduce a reference to the socioeconomic measures to be taken to deal with the possible loss of income that the sector may suffer, either through the new european fisheries fund, as you have said, or through any other specific instrument that the european union may create, and i am glad that the specificity of the gulf of cádiz area is recognised and that, in this sense, it has been considered more positive to dissociate it from the proposal. the exclusion of this fish from the recovery plan should not, under any circumstances, mean that measures are not being taken to enable it to be recovered and managed in a sustainable way, and in this connection you are aware that the national authorities are drawing up an emergency plan for this particular fishery. i believe, mr commissioner, that as rapporteur i have chosen the most realistic and most possible way, and i must admit that i have kept very much in mind the objective of preserving resources - which i consider to be of extraordinary importance and, as you say, ensures our future - as well as the objective of preserving a healthy, prosperous and viable european fisheries sector. that is the meaning of the report i am presenting to this house today.
i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the european parliament, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the european parliament. this debate goes back a long way, to the previous legislature. the commission put forward a first proposal equating the situation of cod and hake. we had to stop her, and we did. the situation of the two species was not comparable. the commission finally agreed with us and then put forward two separate proposals. we have also succeeded in differentiating between northern and southern hake, with two different proposals. this followed a major joint hearing between the sector and scientists involved in the parliament's fisheries committee in 2001. in the end we got a satisfactory result for northern hake and we also got the debate on southern hake postponed in 2003 for this parliamentary term, which allowed the sector and scientists to provide more data and to specify the proposals. i believe that mr borg's visit to spain was also instrumental in correcting the commission's initial position on southern hake and cichlid. we must therefore congratulate ourselves, because i believe that this is the right way forward, as is being demonstrated in the case of the mediterranean. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs miguélez, on her work and on the final result of her report, and also all those who have contributed to it, such as the spanish and portuguese governments, the former and the present, and the members of my group, mrs fraga and mr freitas, for their valuable contribution. i would also like to highlight the amendment which we are putting to the house today on behalf of our group, the epp, which will give the member states greater flexibility in implementing their recovery plans. finally, i would also like to congratulate and express my sincere thanks to the xunta de galicia, which has helped to bring about the necessary unity of the sector in this decisive matter within the galician consultative committee, since its consensus has served as the basis for reaching a satisfactory and realistic agreement here.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the honourable members mrs miguélez ramos and mr morillon for the excellent reports which they have presented to us and which we are debating in this parliament today. at the end of 2003, the commission proposed a recovery plan for the southern european stocks of hake and cichlids, which the international council for the exploration of the sea considered to be threatened by high levels of fishing mortality of mature individuals of these species, which reduced their capacity for regeneration by natural biological reproduction. i have some reservations about the full validity of the reports which were put together to assess the situation of the stocks of these species, since the associations of shipowners and fishermen, or at least those i have consulted, say that the best way to know whether stocks are at risk or not is to cast the net into the sea. of course, the network that scrupulously complies with the regulations in force. if you catch fish, you can't say that the species is endangered and they're catching more fish than they used to. however, those who live off this extractive sector are the first to be interested in maintaining the fisheries resources on which their economy and their way of life depend and therefore they welcome, as do we, the introduction of measures to protect the southern cod and cichlid stocks. however, the implementation of some of the proposed measures may affect the socioeconomic situation of the sector, and it is therefore absolutely necessary to introduce in the regulation some kind of mechanism to mitigate the consequences of the foreseeable restrictions on fishing capacity for the people concerned and to compensate for the damage inflicted on the sector. in addition, the knowledge that fishermen and businesses will be able to count on this aid will encourage them to participate willingly in the recovery plans being considered. we also support the idea that control should be exercised over the numbers of mature individuals of each species and not over the levels of mortality rates, and that the measures to be adopted should cover a ten-year horizon and that the annual variations in the permissible tonnage of catch should not exceed, by more or less, 10%.
mr president, i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteurs and especially mrs miguélez, because i am going to refer to her report, not because the report by the president of the commission is not magnificent. first of all, i would say that the first discrepancy between the commission and the fisheries sector is usually the length of time for which the plans are being drawn up. in this respect, it should be borne in mind that it is not the same to establish a recovery plan for a short-lived and fast-growing species as for another species with the opposite characteristics. on the other hand, as many of those who have spoken before me have said, we must take into account the socioeconomic impact of each plan, which varies greatly according to the fleets concerned. in this case, therefore, we have set a minimum recovery period of 10 years, which allows the above factors to be taken into account. it is important to stress that the first step in any recovery plan must be to prevent the further decline of the species concerned and to enable it to recover. achieving this in a relatively short time has little biological relevance, but it can be catastrophic for regions that live off fishing. we therefore believe that once the biological parameters have been set by the scientists - and this report has incorporated, for example, the biomass target that the population must reach in order to be considered recovered - member states should be allowed some flexibility to achieve this target in the way that best suits the characteristics of their fleets. once again, the important thing is that the species recovers, no matter how much effort is reduced. that is why, as mr freitas has said, we have tabled an amendment on behalf of our group calling for greater flexibility for the fleets. as regards the issue of the seals, i refer to what the rapporteur has said; there is no scientific basis for this and therefore i simply ask the commission and the council to support the amendments by mrs miguélez and the committee on fisheries, which bring a great deal of common sense to this proposal.
the next item is the commission statement on the drought in portugal.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is well aware of the severity of the drought situation in portugal. it understands the concerns and is fully committed to assist portugal. my colleague, commissioner fischer boel, met the portuguese minister of agriculture, mr silva, on 6 april 2005 in relation to this issue. there are three sets of instruments that are of particular importance in assisting portuguese farmers. the first concerns market support and direct aid, where the commission has already acted. it has adopted two decisions: one on 4 march to increase the advance payments for the bovine premiums for 2004 to 80%, and another on 7 april to allow the use of set-aside land for animal feeding in the affected regions. three more decisions are currently in preparation. the first concerns a temporary derogation from the density requirements of the regulation on the conversion of arable land to extensive livestock farming. it introduces a corrective correlation coefficient to be applied to the number of livestock units recorded on the holding. another decision will extend the use of set-aside land for the feeding of animals to the whole continental territory of portugal. in this context, i also want to mention the portuguese request for transfer of intervention stocks. traditionally, the commission is opposed to such transfers in light of abundant market supplies. commissioner fischer boel has, in discussion with the portuguese minister of agriculture, accepted the particularly difficult circumstances due to the prolonged drought in portugal. she has asked the services of the directorate-general for agriculture to discuss the arrangements with portuguese officials with regard to the disposal of the transferred stocks. a third decision will authorise, under certain conditions, the advance payment of a number of premiums. these include an advance of 80% of the amount of the suckler cow premium, and 50% of the sheep, goats and dairy premium for 2005. under article 28(3)(c) of regulation (ec) no 1782/2003, the single farm payment might be advanced as well, provided that it is not paid out before 16 october at the earliest and subject to controls being carried out. the second instrument concerns rural development. when natural disasters occur, re-programming is possible. however, this possibility seems limited as we approach the end of the programming period and resources are scarce. portugal asked that farmers continue to receive rural development payments even if certain conditions cannot be met due to the drought. at the end of january 2005, the portuguese authorities requested recognition of the drought as a force majeure under article 39 of regulation (ec) no 817/2004 and to accept derogations to certain conditions concerning the agri-environment measure. application of a force majeure requires a number of objective criteria, in particular the severity of the drought and the quantification of the consequences on agriculture and the farming economy. some reports are already available and paint an initial picture of the expected consequences. on the basis of the information available, the commission has no objection to the portuguese request. however, portugal will be asked for a more comprehensive report. portugal may decide to compensate farmers through state aid for income losses resulting from severe drought. they have to notify their plans to the commission. the commission will do its best to approve such plans quickly. however, it is essential to prove that the losses due to a climatic event reached a threshold of 20% or 30%; secondly, that there is a direct link between the losses and the adverse weather conditions; and thirdly, that no over-compensation occurs. the portuguese authorities can also use the de minimis regulation on state aid. over a period of three years, up to eur 3 000 per farmer can be granted in aid without the commission being notified, provided that, among other conditions, the total amount for the period does not exceed eur 17 832 000.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to congratulate you on the initiative you have taken to bring this question of drought in portugal to this house as an urgent debate, and to begin by conveying all the sympathy and understanding that can be had as a co-insular citizen with regard to this problem. it is clear that it does not take an expert in meteorology or a weatherman to know that if it does not rain in portugal, it does not rain in certain parts of spain. i think it is quite obvious and therefore, as far as the climatological dimension of what we are discussing here is concerned, the problem in portugal is virtually identical to that of much of spain. it is certainly another thing for the actual economic effects in a country to be different, depending on the geography or the territory. but the drought problem, the problem of lack of rain as such, is shared. that is why we have introduced amendments to this motion for a resolution, which in some paragraphs slightly broaden the scope of the motion and, in fact, do not restrict it to portugal alone, but extend it also, in part, to the whole of the iberian peninsula. and i think that's the way it should be. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we should all start to do, as the speaker before me said, a deeper reflection, because this is not a temporary situation. the european commission therefore has a responsibility to study, anticipate and plan for the consequences of climate change, which is not just for big political speeches in big debates, but has immediate, and sometimes dramatic, consequences for the economies of countries, as is shown in this case. that is the first point i want to make: this is not a temporary situation, it is not a crisis that is passing, but something that deserves serious consideration and therefore requires political action in the medium and long term. the resolution itself, which deals with very specific issues, i would like to highlight two or three. the first is, fundamentally, the insistence that the economic impact is a general impact, going beyond agriculture; the impact of drought, for example, directly affects tourism and the entire rural dimension of it, and that is something that must always be taken into account, and very especially when we talk about this issue. secondly, the reference to that drama in which, if you will, spain and portugal are very close, and i would also dare to say catalonia and portugal: the element of fires, forest fires. that is an amendment which has been introduced and which does not concern portugal alone and i would therefore like to link the consequences of drought to the very serious risk of fires and at the same time call for the possible application of the solidarity fund to deal with these issues. i think it is a very important matter which will probably, in due course, require a resolution and a debate directly devoted to this subject. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, i thank the honourable members for their comments on the commission statement. the commission shares the concerns expressed here on the effects of the drought in portugal. as i stated at the start of this debate, we will do what we can to assist those most affected by the drought, i.e. the agricultural community. these measures will, in turn, also help the affected rural economies. i have listened to your concerns and your information about the hardship on the ground. certainly the commission will demonstrate its solidarity by putting in place the measures that i listed earlier. my colleague, commissioner fischer boel, is conscious of the problems and has done and is doing everything possible to address the situation. as for the idea of setting up a more permanent structure to deal with such situations, i will forward the information to my colleagues, who will doubtless give it careful consideration. other ideas and suggestions have been put forward, which will be given due consideration by the commission. a number of you mentioned the need to take a wider look at the issue and at the causes of this kind of drought, which range from climate change to forestry policy. i thank you for your suggestions and your proposals, which seek to take a longer-term and more coordinated approach to this phenomenon. they certainly give me much food for thought and demonstrate parliament’s commitment to sustainable development, a commitment that is shared fully by the commission. the commission is very sensitive to this issue and to the hardship that it has caused. we will do what we can and will demonstrate our solidarity with those most affected by this drought. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
it is surprising that the european union has not yet developed and implemented a short- and long-term strategy to combat drought and desertification, which is one of the main threats to economic and social sustainability in the southern and mediterranean countries. but the lack of a joint plan between the countries and the committee (agriculture and environment) is all the more striking when the european environment agency recently highlighted that the areas most negatively affected by the expected climate change are the mediterranean countries. we therefore support a policy to combat drought in portugal, and any aid to alleviate the impacts on productivity, the market or the plantations themselves resulting from this water deficit. at the same time we ask that its extension to other countries of the south be studied.
the six motions for resolutions on bangladesh are now under discussion.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission welcomes the european parliament’s initiative to draw public attention to the serious governance and human rights situation in bangladesh. today’s debate is very timely; it is being held against the background of a law and order situation that has suffered a serious decline since the last european parliament resolution of november 2002. abuses against human rights activists, journalists and minorities are on the increase. the governance situation is at an all-time low and political violence has reached a new climax, as sadly exemplified by the grenade attack in august 2004 and the tragic assassination of former finance minister kibria in january. we share your concerns about the dysfunction of the country’s institutions, the culture of impunity, mounting fundamentalism, the human rights abuses of minorities and the escalating confrontation between ruling and opposition parties. all these factors, combined with mounting religious militancy, make us believe that bangladesh’s democratic and secular foundations are in jeopardy. the european community has been very vocal on these issues, not least in view of our development mandate and the human rights clause that provides the basis of our aid relationship with bangladesh. over the last months the european community and the member states have repeatedly called on the government to condemn the persecution of political opponents, intellectuals, journalists, ngos and minorities. the european union has reacted strongly to the attack on mrs sheikh hasina and the assassination of former minister kibria by urging the government to restore justice without delay and to give clear signals that acts of terrorism are not acceptable. we are continuously stressing our concerns about the climate of impunity reigning in the country, the confrontational politics, the mounting attacks against the tribal people of the chittagong hill tracts and the ahmadiyya community and the extrajudicial killings in ‘crossfire’ by special police forces. let me also note that the european union showed great unity on bangladesh at this year’s human rights commission in geneva, where the eu agreed to single out bangladesh as one of five countries in its statement of principle on human rights in the world. the deteriorating governance situation has compelled us to enhance donor unity. in february the european community, the world bank and the us department of state convened a meeting in washington with all major international donors to discuss how we can foster key governance reforms. the exchanges confirmed that our concerns are fully shared by the international donor community. this donor unity has allowed us to define common priorities and to convey strong private messages to the government on the poor governance and the urgent need to deliver on reforms. the gathering in washington had a clear impact on the country: it prompted the government to admit publicly the existence of an islamic fundamentalist problem. alas, the government crackdown on islamic militants is already petering out, as demonstrated by charges being dropped against a prominent islamic leader. for its part, the commission will continue closely to monitor the political situation in the country and pursue these fundamental issues through our political dialogue with the government and close donor coordination. in that context we will also increase the focus of our attention on the next parliamentary elections in late 2006 and the conditions for free and fair elections. the political dialogue will be underpinned by our offer to support pressing institutional reforms in the next aid strategy which, if accepted by the government, would contribute to a meaningful change and thus to more progress and prosperity for the people of bangladesh.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon after the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the five motions for resolutions on humanitarian aid to the refugees from western sahara.
author. mr president, i was prepared to join a list of speakers and not to start a debate. in any case, it is true that this joint resolution which we are about to adopt on the situation of the refugees in the sahara is quite self-explanatory and is bound up with a strictly humanitarian drama. in dealing with the human rights situation in the world, we will find a paragraph devoted to the situation in the sahara. and the political situation in the sahara deserves further reflection. but it is the strictly humanitarian situation that now affects us. we are talking about some 200 000 refugees who have been living in refugee camps for almost 30 years and with no other source of resources than international humanitarian aid. that's what we're talking about here today. and that is what is at stake for a number of reasons, including some strictly bureaucratic ones affecting the european commission. all of that together is about to create a real humanitarian crisis. that is what this motion for a resolution is trying to do by calling on the commission to take urgent action to prevent a humanitarian crisis of unprecedented proportions from developing. and then, it is proposed some very concrete measures, such as greater collaboration with the non-governmental organizations on the ground or greater support for those sahrawi institutions which, inside the refugee camps, are collaborating in the administration of this humanitarian aid, which, i repeat, is the only source of income for 200 000 people. there is no doubt that this resolution solves or tackles only part of the problem and that we cannot turn a blind eye to what the problem is. there is a serious problem at the doorstep of europe and sooner or later we must be able to exert all the political and diplomatic pressure on the various actors involved in the solution of this conflict so that we can as soon as possible stop having debates like this: how do we feed 200 000 people who without us will have nothing to eat.
author. mr president, the resolution we are presenting and voting on today is indeed about the increasingly deteriorating humanitarian situation in the sahrawi camps. this is a commitment made by a parliamentary delegation which visited the camps a few weeks ago, and which we are now fulfilling. aid is running out, and there is an urgent need to respond to this situation. but we must also bear in mind that the humanitarian question actually conceals the real problem, which is political. humanitarian aid is necessary because the saharawi people are forced to live in camps far from their homes and cannot lead a normal life far from their country. after 30 years of conflict, the patience is running out in the camps. there are even voices calling for a return to armed conflict if the situation is not resolved soon. this is very worrying; the european union cannot turn a blind eye to this fact. but the most worrying thing is that the solution is on the table, it exists and it's called plan baker ii. it is an imperfect plan, no doubt, but one which the saharawi people accepted, making important concessions in its approaches. and yet the other party, morocco, refuses to sign it. europe is looking to spain and therefore the spanish government must take the lead in the process of resolving the conflict. let us not forget that the saharawi population is now in the camps as a result of an unfinished decolonization, for which the spanish government is primarily responsible. i therefore encourage president zapatero to encourage spain to take up the role that portugal played in relation to timor. after 30 years of neglect, silence and broken promises, it is time for the world in general and europe in particular to stop turning a blind eye to the problem and to face it head on. it is time for the saharawi people to see their just and understandable demand for a referendum on self-determination in western sahara, in accordance with international law and the united nations charter, fulfilled. finally, i would also like to express my solidarity with the moroccan journalist ali lmrabet, who has been unjustly convicted of defamation for saying that the people living in the camps are refugees and not abductees.
author. mr president, this resolution is the fruit of the commitment that some members of the european parliament, including mr portas, mr romeva and mrs scheele, made in the tindouf refugee camps, where we spent four days, experiencing the hardships of living in the middle of the desert. we were there for a few days to see the suffering of the saharawi people, because they have no political solution, no peaceful or orderly solution to their situation. we were, like them, without water, without light. but to these tindemans' own ruthlessness, because these 150 000 human beings live in the middle of the desert without any comfort, we must add the fact that we are faltering in what is humanitarian aid. the resolution we are proposing here deals strictly with humanitarian aid, because we have seen firsthand the humanitarian difficulties facing the saharawi people because of the lack of aid. because the help they were getting is dwindling. i do not know whether any member state of the european union will have responsibility for this. france's position in this conflict is very clear... but i do not want to talk about that, because we are talking about the importance of the european union continuing to help as it has been doing to these 150 000 saharawis who are trying to find a solution. the political problems are one thing, and they will have to be solved and addressed in other resolutions. but we cannot ignore the fact that, within a few kilometres of the european union, we have 150 000 saharawis who are suffering because we are not generous enough. because by cutting off flour or reducing the food quotas we have been sending, we are contributing to the already very difficult living conditions in the refugee camps. the european union also has its responsibility as the main donor of aid from the united nations. we must also make our voice heard there.
mr president, forgetfulness is the great enemy of many situations of injustice in the world. the sahrawi people are the most important people in the world. after 30 years, these men and women are surviving in a totally inhuman situation, deprived of the most basic needs, in extremely difficult conditions. despite this, we could say that they are a clear example in terms of organization and work, which hold them together with great dignity, especially highlighting the courage of saharawi women, who have been able to build a well-structured society from nothing. we have a moral and political obligation in europe today. we are talking about a borderline situation that demands an immediate response. the saharawi people would like to live off their own resources and their own labour, but unfortunately they have to do so on the basis of our solidarity. the saharawi people have shown us their organization and their ability to manage resources. the increase in european aid and the confidence in its management by the sahrawi structures are therefore the demands we are making to this house today. we cannot forget that the cause of this humanitarian problem is rooted in a political conflict that needs to be addressed. we must be able to resolve the political question and make the referendum on self-determination for the saharawi people a reality. we must be able to find a just and final solution. peace and freedom for the saharawi people.
member of the commission. thank you for your initiative, which gives me the opportunity to express the commission’s views concerning the western sahara conflict. first of all, let me stress that the commission would like to see this conflict resolved soon and its resolution is crucial for the stability, regional integration and development in the maghreb and in the mediterranean. from a humanitarian point of view, one cannot but feel concern regarding the dramatic conditions for the thousands of sahrawi refugees, the ongoing detention by the polisario of 408 moroccan prisoners of war, the difficulties for the families divided between the refugee camps and the western sahara, and the fate of people unaccounted for on both sides. all these issues impress on us the need for an end to this crisis, which has been going on for nearly 30 years. as you know, the provision of humanitarian aid by the commission respects the principles of neutrality, impartiality and independence and is based on real needs. the commission’s humanitarian office, echo, also acts in accordance with the criteria of non-discrimination and not subjecting policies to political objectives. this means that anyone affected by a humanitarian crisis is entitled to receive aid, no matter which side of the conflict they are on. in full observance of these principles and criteria, the commission has provided humanitarian aid totalling eur 108 million to the sahrawi refugees since 1993. thanks to these continuing efforts, the commission has become the principle donor of humanitarian aid to the sahrawi refugees. the commission has never interrupted its assistance. it has, however, adapted the timing and the level of the most recent funding decisions to the situation on the ground. i would like to emphasise that, thanks to the essential role of the ‘buffer stock’, created and funded by the commission in 2000, we have been able to avoid any interruption in food supplies. the current humanitarian situation in the camps has not deteriorated. however, it remains worrying. there is a risk of deterioration when and if the possible break in the food pipeline, as announced by the world food programme, is not compensated for in a timely and sufficient manner. echo intends to propose a funding decision next month to deal with this situation. the funding for 2005 will depend both on the needs of the sahrawi refugees and on the conditions for the implementation of echo-funded projects. i would like to stress that the commission has a dual responsibility. it not only needs to address the humanitarian needs of refugees in a timely and dedicated manner but it also has to protect the financial interests of the european union. its operations in the sahrawi refugee camps are designed to carry out this dual responsibility effectively. that is why the commission attaches such importance to the proper identification of beneficiaries and full transparency of its operations. with a view to properly assessing the humanitarian needs of the sahrawi refugees, the commission is continuing its discussions with the principal agencies and organisations, in particular the algerian and sahrawi authorities, the high commissioner for refugees, the world food programme and non-governmental organisations. these ngos have played and continue to play an important role as echo’s partner in the implementation of its operations in the sahrawi camps. beyond its purely humanitarian dimension, i believe that the international community’s assistance to the sahrawi refugees helps to create and maintain conditions that are favourable to finding a peaceful solution to the conflict. more generally, i would like to state for the record that the commission and the european union’s position on the political aspects of this conflict has always been to remain impartial. the european union continues to fully support the united nations’ efforts towards finding a fair and lasting solution in accordance with international law.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon after the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the five motions for resolutions on lampedusa.
the mass expulsions of migrants carried out by the italian authorities between october 2004 and march 2005 from the italian island of lampedusa to libya are a matter of grave concern. in particular, the high commissioner for refugees denounced the return of 180 people on 17 march, stating that it was not at all clear that italy had taken the necessary precautions to ensure the return in good faith of these people to libya, a country which in no case can be considered a safe land of asylum. in this connection, we deeply regret that the italian authorities did not allow unhcr access to the lampedusa detention centre. we therefore call on the european commission to ensure that the right of asylum is respected in the european union and to put a stop to the mass expulsions. we also call on the italian authorities to respect their obligations under european union law. we therefore ask that a delegation consisting of members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the subcommittee on human rights be sent to the lampedusa refugee centre and to libya to assess the extent of the problem and the way it is being dealt with and, in particular, the way people are being treated, which also means that the fate and final destination of those who have been expelled must be investigated in particular. in short, there is cause for concern that, in the area of asylum and immigration, there are increasingly frequent cases of violations of the fundamental principles to which the european union and its member states are committed. lampedusa is simply one of those examples which we should avoid repeating.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 14 april 2005.
it is a pleasure for parliament to welcome a group of members of the parliament of the federal state of mecklenburg-western pomerania who are visiting our institution. (applause) i would like to thank
with the agreement of the political groups, i propose the following amendments to the agenda for this part-session, which are contained in the corrigendum distributed to them. wednesday:the commission communication is no longer on the agenda. thursday:debate on the report by mrs fraga estévez on the sustainable exploitation of mediterranean fisheries resources is adjourned until a later part-session. after the debate on mrs klaß's report we shall have a debate on mrs handzlik's report on the internal market of the new member states, which was initially scheduled for the vote. i should also like to point out that two requests for consultation of the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions were added to the votes. if there are no comments, the agenda will be adopted. finally, i would inform you that, following the negotiations in the trilogue, i have just received a request from the committee on development to postpone to a later part-session the debate on mr mitchell's report on the financing instrument for development cooperation and economic cooperation, which was originally scheduled for this afternoon. if there are no comments, we will take up this request and this report will be discussed at a later plenary session. as regards the timetable of our work, i should like to point out that, because of the presence of the council this afternoon, the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance which we normally hold at the beginning of the sitting will take place after the commission's statement on the situation of the roma population in the eu. (parliament adopted the agenda as amended)
we now come to the debate on the report by mr coveney on the annual report on human rights in the world in 2004 and the european union's human rights policy [2004/2151 (ini) ] (a6-0086/2005) for this purpose we have mr almunia, who is replacing commissioner ferrero-waldner, who is in luxembourg.
president of the council. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr coveney on his excellent report. i would say that it presents a very broad and comprehensive view of the human rights situation in a number of respects, as the rapporteur has just said. human rights are more than ever at the centre of the international debate. the sixty-first session of the united nations commission on human rights has just concluded in geneva. the secretary-general of the united nations released his report in march entitled "in greater freedom: toward development, security and respect for human rights for all". it has thus, in a sense, placed the question of human rights at the centre of our concern for the peaceful development of our world. that's kind of what you do in your report. you have drawn a picture of the human rights situation in the world, a picture which is uncompromising and which shows that we must continue to be concerned about human rights. it calls for even more decisive action, even more committed to the defence of human rights. the european union has always been committed to the defence and promotion of human rights; we are making it a central element of our foreign policy. in the face of the challenges of globalisation, and also in view of the continuing deterioration of respect for human rights in many parts of the world, the european union must make a further effort to promote and defend human rights, first internally with governments, but also with civil society, ngos, national parliaments and international institutions. at the heart of the defence of human rights is the commitment we must make to resolving conflicts, conflicts which are often the very source of contempt for the human person. in fact, in your report you denounce a number of cases, you draw up a sort of catastrophic catalogue of cases of human rights violations in many parts of the world. in this connection, i would like to stress the report of the secretary-general of the united nations and the reform of the united nations system, the importance of the human rights aspect in the context of the link between the reform of the united nations, better respect for the charter and the declaration of human rights. let us simply remember that the union is first and foremost a community of values, a community of values which is moreover better anchored in the draft constitution, in particular through the charter of fundamental rights. the community of values we want to be imposes on us the obligation to defend the principles of democracy and respect for human rights throughout the world. these values guide us and should guide us in our choices which are expressed through the various tools at our disposal for conducting our politics. you will understand, mr rapporteur, that i cannot answer in detail all the aspects of your report, all the extremely useful and extremely rich headings it contains. i shall therefore confine myself to a number of the questions you have raised, while giving the undertaking on behalf of the council that our services will continue to study this document and take account of the many suggestions you make in it. i would therefore like to highlight a few aspects which are of such importance that they deserve special attention, and i shall begin with the dialogue. we try to raise human rights wherever we have the opportunity and with all our interlocutors. that is why human rights are always an integral part of all agreements we conclude with partners, even if they are mainly economic agreements. we have therefore started a human rights dialogue with china to show that human rights are not a luxury for rich and developed countries, but a necessary element in economic development. we have also started human rights consultations with russia. it is also a component of the four common areas approach which we hope to put into practice at the next summit with russia on 10 may. on the other hand, as i speak, a troika of the european union is discussing the modalities for resuming the human rights dialogue with iran. in this country too, human rights are an integral part of our relationship with tehran on other important issues: respect for human rights cannot be separated from the other fundamental issues on which we are working. we know that this is a long-term task. although it is difficult, if not impossible, to quantify the results achieved through these human rights dialogues, we consider them to be an indispensable tool for advancing the cause of human rights in the various countries concerned. the need to find common ground with our partners does not, of course, exempt us from regular evaluations of these dialogues. improving the situation on the ground is the objective pursued and it is concrete results such as respect for the rule of law or the release of political prisoners that provide us with indications of the successes we achieve through such dialogues. i will also emphasize strongly the support for human rights organizations in a number of countries, which you also do in your report. it is unacceptable that in some countries the european union funds allocated to these human rights organisations are blocked by governments, something which i believe the president of parliament emphasised very strongly during a visit to one of these countries. i would also like to say a word on a subject which is very close to our hearts: respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism. this is a question of morality first and efficiency second. those who think they can weaken respect for human rights under the pretext of fighting terrorism are, in a sense, giving in to the terrible blackmail of the worst enemies of democracy, namely terrorists. so it's not a path to choose. the attacks of 11 september 2001 have indeed placed terrorism among the priorities of the european union, but we have said and reiterated recently in geneva before the commission on human rights that efforts to combat terrorism must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. the council stated on 21 september 2001 that the fight against terrorism must be inseparable from respect for the fundamental freedoms on which our civilization is founded. at the recent session of the commission on human rights in geneva, the union actively participated in the negotiations on this subject and thus contributed to the adoption of a resolution on respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism. the resolution provides for the appointment of a special rapporteur and will thus help to strengthen the protection of human rights in the fight against terrorism. as for the cooperation you mention in your report between the personal representative for human rights, recently appointed by the secretary-general of the council/high representative for the cfsp, and the european union coordinator for counter-terrorism, it is in line with our policy on this matter and we are working to develop it. i would like to mention some other matters which are of particular importance to you. first, the rights of the child. we are still talking about human rights, but the priority should be the often catastrophic situation of children who are victims of conflict and also of poverty. i believe that the european union has a special vocation in this respect and we will have to see how we can strengthen our action in favour of children's rights. on this point too, let me remind you that the draft constitution explicitly refers to the defence of the rights of the child. i believe that we must step up our action in this direction, in terms of our development aid and in the context of the millennium development goals. there is also the question of the rights of women victims of conflict, but also the question of strengthening the european union's action against all forms of trafficking in human beings, of which women and children are generally the main victims. this is an area in which the european union must step up its action. i would also like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of freedom of information and the right to information. your parliament has made a great deal of effort to promote this right. journalists are often the victims of imprisonment, torture, harassment of all kinds and, today, hostage-taking. this is a good time to think about these journalists who have been held hostage in iraq for more than 100 days. another issue that is also discussed in your report is that of the future agency for fundamental freedoms and the risk of duplication of work resulting from the proliferation of human rights bodies. we decided as early as 2003 that the mandate of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia should be reviewed and that it should be considered to become an agency. a wide public consultation was then launched by the commission. the very large number of individuals and organisations who have expressed their ideas on the future role of the observatory and its transformation into an agency for fundamental freedoms and human rights shows how concerned citizens are about human rights issues. we can only congratulate ourselves on that. following this consultation, the commission started to draft a proposal for a regulation on the basis of the many elements gathered. this proposal will then be examined in accordance with the usual procedure. so while it is premature to discuss this agency here, let me stress that, given the scale of the task, there will never be too many of us to deal with the preservation and defence of human rights. we are aware of the problems and intend to strengthen cooperation between the various bodies concerned. our aim is to strengthen all the instruments and bodies in the service of human rights in a spirit of concerted and coordinated work in order to achieve effective action and to avoid any duplication which would be an irresponsible waste of our resources. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to begin by apologising to commissioner ferrero-waldner for her absence today and also expressing my satisfaction at being able to take her place on such an essential issue in our model of society, of political and civic community and in our european project. the universal declaration of human rights begins by noting that "freedom, justice and peace in the world are based on the recognition of the inherent dignity and equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family". all of us, in the exercise of our responsibilities and in our daily and private lives, have a responsibility to promote and protect the rights of every human being everywhere in the world. the european parliament's report on human rights which we are discussing this afternoon is a very important contribution and i would like to begin by paying a warm tribute to mr coveney for his excellent work, which again illustrates the strong commitment of this parliament to human rights. the report contains very important reflection material and many useful recommendations; its breadth will not allow me to answer in detail the various questions it raises today, but, as usual, the commission will continue this debate by responding to each and every one of the recommendations in the report in writing. however, i would like to draw attention in these minutes to some of the points raised by mr coveney in his report. in particular, i would like to make brief comments on three issues: firstly, on the rights of children, especially in armed conflict; secondly, on human rights defenders; and lastly, on the international criminal court. the commission welcomes the emphasis on children's rights in the report. in recent years, the european union has put in place an effective framework for the integration of children's rights into its policies and programmes. in collaboration with unicef, we have initiated a specific training programme on children's rights and last september we set up an interinstitutional group on this subject. the commission plays an active role in the implementation of the european union guidelines on children and armed conflict adopted in 2003: we regularly raise the issue in our dialogues with third countries and with representatives of groups involved in armed conflict. for example, during her visit to sri lanka last march, commissioner ferrero-waldner had the opportunity to place particular emphasis on the importance of eradicating the use of children in these conflicts. the commission supports a wide range of projects addressing different aspects of this problem and, after careful consideration, we have decided to allocate funds from the european initiative for democracy and human rights to supporting and training projects in third countries. the objective of these programmes and resources is to advance the implementation of the convention on the rights of the child and its optional protocols. let me also point out that the group of commissioners for human rights places particular emphasis on this subject. my colleagues have reviewed the commission's work in this field and are currently considering how best to give priority to this issue; one of the possibilities being considered is the adoption of a communication, as suggested by mr coveney in his report. secondly, i would like to refer to the human rights defenders. in his speech to the united nations general assembly, the un high commissioner for human rights stated, in relation to human rights defenders, that they are our eyes and ears and represent our collective conscience. they are a vital source of information on developments in third countries. we, the european union, therefore depend on them, on human rights defenders, for information. that means that we have a huge responsibility to protect them, we must concentrate on improving the monitoring and transmission of information and establish a strong commitment in this respect by the missions of the european union and the commission delegations in the world. the commission is determined to play an active role in making the guidelines on human rights defenders a reality. in this respect, we give them priority in our campaign 'promoting a culture of human rights', which is one of the four pillars of the european initiative for democracy and human rights. we also place particular emphasis on supporting local human rights organisations in third countries. the programme for this and the next year of the initiative calls for more than 50 delegations of the european commission to launch a micro-project plan, which will represent more than 30% of their total budget. finally, mr president, let me refer to the international criminal court, an institution of vital importance for the promotion of international peace and justice. the commission considers the court to be one of the essential components of a well-regulated international order. it is thanks to it that those who commit mass violations of life and human dignity know that the international community will hold them accountable and, with this, we all hope that the frequency of these crimes will be reduced, but wherever they occur and wherever national systems are unwilling or unable to intervene, the international community now has a complementary system of criminal justice, executed through the court, which must deliver justice in an impartial, transparent and effective manner. this is the only way to ensure that it is regarded as a legitimate institution and that the accession of many other states to the rome statute which created the court is achieved. the european union believes that three principles of the court are fundamental. firstly, the principle of universality of the court, and in this respect we are campaigning around the world to increase the number of ratifications of the rome statute and i am particularly pleased that 77 acp countries jointly agreed last march to include a commitment to ratify the statute in the new cotonou agreement, which is to be signed shortly. secondly, we consider the principle of the integrity of the court, which is under attack by some countries, to be fundamental. for example, the bilateral immunity agreements proposed by the united states undermine the very concept of the court. the commission is also concerned about the sanctions regime imposed by the united states on those countries which refuse to sign such agreements and we continue to express our concern about these issues in our dialogue with the united states. and finally, the third principle of the court is complementarity with national judicial systems; international justice is not a substitute for national justice. that is why we support the reconstruction of legal systems in those countries where the judiciary has not been able or has not had the will to prosecute massive human rights violations. the adoption on 31 march of a un security council resolution on the situation in darfur, which for the first time refers to the international criminal court, is very encouraging. finally, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can assure you on behalf of the commission that the breadth of countries and issues covered in parliament's report will be of great help when we start work on the european union's annual report on human rights in the near future. i would therefore like to reiterate my thanks and that of the commission to mr coveney and to the european parliament as a whole for their excellent work and to remind once again of our continued readiness to cooperate with parliament in this task. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr coveney, on the tireless efforts he has made to defend human rights in his report and also on the tireless search for consensus to overcome the many problems and conflicts of interest which this report raises. this report on human rights in the world clearly demonstrates the unwavering and unwavering commitment of the european union in general and of this parliament in particular to the cause of human rights, which need not be preached from a region, a country or a continent, but must be of a planetary or universal character. i think that in europe we must approach this task with an attitude of intellectual modesty, and that we must think that before we set out to fix the world, we should perhaps look around our own house first. we must apply this reference to human rights, which the european union makes effective through the democratic clause in the association and cooperation agreements, avoiding double standards and applying it equally to large countries, medium-sized countries and small countries. i think we must be rigorous in demanding respect for human rights, we must be precise, we must not go overboard and we must also, mr president, be generous in the progress that many developing countries are making in their legislation and in their factual situations. because the action of the european union, mr president, must be directed towards encouraging these processes, stimulating them and providing an incentive for human rights to become a reality in all regions of the world. mr president, i would like to refer to three aspects of the many important points made by mr coveney in his report which have particularly caught my attention. firstly, the reference to the case of somalí mam, to the cause she has been defending against child prostitution and to the 91 girls who have been abducted from one of her reception centres where she carries out her social work. assizes and the death penalty in countries such as the philippines. and i would also like to take this opportunity, mr president, to refer, and i think it is appropriate in the context of this discussion on human rights, to the spanish citizen carlos ayala, an official of the european commission posted to bogotá, where he has apparently been kidnapped in strange circumstances. i would like to draw the attention of this house to this case, to ask for clarification of the consequences and causes of his disappearance and, of course, to ask for his release. i would like to conclude, mr president, by congratulating the rapporteur and hoping that this report will be given the large majority it deserves in this parliament in the vote tomorrow morning. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we have always said that the main value of the european project is human rights, their respect and their promotion. with this report, for which i also want to congratulate mr coveney, we are once again risking the credibility of the european union in this delicate area. in the context of the proliferation of trade and association agreements which the union is promoting, the human rights aspect should not become a minor requirement but the very essence of these agreements. let us consider some examples. with regard to china, before lifting the arms embargo, we must take advantage of the human rights dialogue we have with that country to promote internal political changes leading to greater democratization and improvement of institutions and justice, with particular emphasis on the so-called three t's (tiananmen, tibet and taiwan) and the abolition of the death penalty. we must also take advantage of our privileged neighbourhood with morocco to denounce the repeated violation of press freedom, which means, among other things, that rabat should abolish the sentences against journalists like ali lmrabet, respect international law and promote the baker plan as a framework for a just and lasting solution to the western sahara conflict. mexico is another case where we must insist, on the basis of the association agreement signed with that country, that the mexican authorities confront violence against women with greater determination and political will. we also regret the increasing persecution that certain indigenous and anti-globalization groups are suffering for publicly expressing criticism of the government. the european union is deeply concerned about the continuing violation of human rights in colombia and the growing threat to human rights defenders. the colombian authorities should therefore be urged to protect these people. finally, the european union must promote a series of binding regulations on companies in order to hold them accountable for the possible negative impacts of their activities on the environment, the social and labour dimension of people and peoples and human rights in general.
mr president, i do share the view that this is the laborious history of an impossible report, which, by the way, deals with a subject of growing interest to both citizens and international bodies, and i would like to refer specifically to the position of the secretary-general of the united nations, kofi annan, in his report 'a broader concept of freedom: development, security and human rights for all'. this is the story of an impossible report, for which we must of course thank mr coveney, and it is impossible because it will always be unbalanced. 'we have the world as a stage', incoherent. 'we have only to see the paragraph which refers to venezuela specifically' and, moreover, each year, original, because we do not consolidate any position of this parliament adopted in previous reports. its usefulness, mr president, is very relative, and yet this report says very important things. i think we must redefine the position of the european parliament on this report: many of the positions of this parliament adopted in other reports and other resolutions are completely dissociated from our annual human rights report. we must concentrate our parliamentary work mainly on contributing to the report already being drawn up by the council, and in this way we will be able to have some effective influence on the human rights situation in the world. and finally, although i have to say that there has been a very broad, very complicated and very long exercise of consensus between the political groups, i would like to ask my colleagues on the right of this house to make an exercise of coherence or responsibility or, if you like, simply compassion, to support our position in relation to women and girls who are raped, victims of abuse in war or conflict situations, who need pre- and post-aggression prophylaxis, many of whom are made pregnant by their aggressors and who must be able to resort to voluntary termination of pregnancy. or is it not, your honours?
mr president, i am very concerned about the kidnapping in the republic of colombia of a spanish citizen of the european union, carlos ayala saavedra, an official of the commission delegation in bogotá. we do not know the circumstances under which this disappearance occurred, but it seems that he has been kidnapped, and since he is an official of one of our institutions it would be appropriate for parliament to take steps to show solidarity with the citizen and his family and with the sister institution, the european commission.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, we in the epp-de group welcome the directive very much. however, from the outset we found ourselves, at least certain sectors within my group and some countries, in a frankly uncomfortable situation because the directive did not achieve all the objectives we wanted. for example, it left out the fundamental issue of monitoring aquifers - quantity - and focused only on quality, when in fact the water directive, in its respective annexes, talks about monitoring quantities - water volumes - and at the same time quality control. not to link quality and quantity in a measure of governance, a measure of management, is something that cannot be understood. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. and finally, we must say that many of parliament's amendments, from our point of view, make the situation worse, because they seek to standardise all aquifers and all control of substances, when we know precisely that the geology of europe is very diverse and the concept of geological diversity in europe must be a cornerstone of this policy, because sustainable development must be appropriate to each site. on the other hand, we understand that there are amendments which are impossible to comply with, such as amendment no 94, because a state cannot guarantee what enters its aquifers, since it often shares it. that is why, if amendment no 94 is adopted, we shall vote against the directive because it is incomplete and does not allow for the monitoring of water quantities.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs klaß, and all the other members on the work done to supplement the groundwater protection provisions in the framework directive to prevent and control groundwater pollution and to establish criteria for assessing the good chemical status of groundwater bodies. we must therefore consider that, since the possibilities of purifying an aquifer are very limited, control and prevention are strictly necessary in order to prevent pollutants from being stored in groundwater. we must not forget that groundwater is the most sensitive and important water resource in the european union and, in particular, the main source of public drinking water supply. on the other hand, and given that measures to prevent or limit the ingress of pollutants into groundwater are a vital element of this proposal for a directive, it would be very important, contrary to what the honourable member who has preceded me on the floor has said, to get the amendment on article 6 which we have tabled with other honourable members approved, so that member states control indirect discharges on the basis of best environmental practices and sufficient techniques to prevent such discharges. commissioner, i would like to say that the commission, in its proposal for an annex on pollutants, has not taken sufficient account of the fact that, due to the geological nature of the existing subsurface, there are substances, such as chlorides and sulphates, which occur naturally in many aquifers in the european union and that the classification of pollutants for these salts is even questionable from a scientific point of view. i would also like to say that the proposal you have put before us is not very ambitious, since it is limited to the minimum required by the framework directive, but i am still confident that with the work of all of us we will achieve a better directive.
mr president, the first thing i would like to say is that the problem that has arisen with the use of the floor has been solely and exclusively due to a mistake in the services of the whip of my group, and therefore it is up to them to give an explanation to the colleagues who are affected. i would point out, focusing on mrs klaß's report, that farmers are probably the first to be affected by the groundwater directive we are dealing with, and yet their views have not been taken into account in the drafting of the proposal we have on the table. agriculture in many european regions ensures the existence of a vegetation mass which prevents desertification of land, a phenomenon which produces a considerable increase in natural pollutants in groundwater. the drastic reduction of this agricultural activity, as some seem to be seeking to do, would therefore run counter to the very aims of the directive we are discussing today. secondly, i would like to express my disappointment at the lack of interest shown by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development of this parliament, in particular those calling for the element of 'quantity of water' to be taken into account in determining the factors contributing to groundwater pollution. the low-flow aquifers, as is common in many regions of southern europe, especially in the dry season, have a higher salinity and therefore higher sulphate concentrations; this salinity is, i repeat, closely linked to the volumes of water supply, a fact which has not been taken into account in the report before us. i would also like to express my opposition to the establishment of community standards which replace the concept of national thresholds with quality standards, since this would introduce a static element which is incompatible with the diversity of soils and waters existing in many european regions. farmers will also be the first victims of this measure, because the tolerance levels of some substances, especially sulphate, which are generated by nature itself in many areas, depend on the characteristics of the soils and the crops, and examples of crops, such as rice, can withstand higher sulphate levels than other plant species. the setting of community standards for such substances, which in no way endanger the health of consumers, could therefore lead to unjustified stoppages in irrigation.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 28 april 2005.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make a statement to commemorate the end of the second world war in europe. as you know, as everyone knows, 60 years ago today, a review of the horrors that europe experienced in that period began. the figures are staggering: 60 million dead, the systematic extermination of peoples and minorities, cities and regions reduced to rubble and ashes, economies ruined and 30 million displaced among the civilian populations of all the contending countries. and whatever the responsibility of those who started the war, the suffering of human beings is the suffering of human beings. in the pacific, as you know, the war would still continue until august 14th and it ended with those dreadful images of nuclear extermination. europe was then a continent destroyed, starved and threatened. with peace, or at least with the end of the war, on 8 may, some political leaders proclaimed that the flag of freedom was waving across europe, but today we must recognize that, at that time, the end of the war only brought peace and freedom to half a continent. the other half were victims of that new world order that was born in yalta. indeed, peace and freedom did not come for all. on 8 may, a new geography of europe was drawn up: totalitarianism - certain forms of totalitarianism - was overcome, but another, different, but equally iron and more durable, kidnapped half of europe. bipolarity was born, a long ideological conflict began, and the nuclear age terrorized the world. our continent was split in two and today, 60 years later, here in the european parliament, we can finally celebrate a europe rediscovered, not enlarged, but reunited. on 1 may we celebrated the first anniversary of the reunion we had with the countries that were kidnapped after yalta. soon we will be more and our reunification will be complete. and that gives greater meaning to this 9 may, europe day, on which 55 years ago the foundations were laid to respond to the desolation of war, to ensure that it never happened again, and which today constitutes a complete response with the arrival of the new countries that have joined the union. i would like to see today, ladies and gentlemen, a day of reflection, as we commemorate three events of a different but interrelated nature: 55 years since the beginning of the european adventure, 60 years since the end of the war and one year since reunification. it is a great opportunity to remember together our duty of memory and to make it known, especially to the younger generations who have not known war and to whom peace may seem a natural thing. but it hasn't. the streets of our cities are full of names of people and of events, of events which have shaped our history and which form part of our collective memory: the westerplatte in gdansk-danzig, montgomery square in brussels, the stalingrad metro in paris, the boulevard dresden, a few metres from here, and military cemeteries from both sides which populate the geography of europe. all this is our common memory, the memory of a continent which has now overcome what was then the subordination of the individual to the state and the contempt for law and human dignity. today our system is based on the separation of powers, on popular sovereignty and on respect for human rights. and that must be the message we must give to the whole of europe and the whole world as we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the end of the war and the beginning of the adventure of the european union: the commitment to continue fighting for the defence of the values of peace, justice and tolerance, not only for europe, but for the whole world. and let us do so by remembering that what the citizens of europe expect from their union today is no longer peace, because for europeans, peace among ourselves is already there and we all consider it irreversible. no one can imagine that we will ever again resolve our differences by resorting to arms. what europeans expect today from their union is that it should contribute to their prosperity and to their security in the face of new threats from a world which is no longer the one that was born in yalta. i therefore ask you to look to the future with the burning obligation to achieve the prosperity and security that our citizens demand of us. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to commemorate this day - the end of the second world war, europe day and the first anniversary of the reunification of europe - in a solemn and exceptional way, with music in the chamber. allow me to introduce a young latvian woman, born in riga, miss baiba skride. (applause) miss skride has accepted our invitation to be with us today and to commemorate the occasion she proposes a baroque piece: bach's chacona 1004. alejo carpentier said that the baroque is surely the style most in keeping with the european cultural diversity. baiba skride has played, despite his youth, in the most prestigious auditoriums in the world and i am sure that today he will add to his resume the improvised auditorium that we have turned this house into. miss skride's talent and youth are accompanied by a violin that was built by stradivarius in 1725 and named after wilhelm, in honor of the famous german violinist august wilhelm, to whom it belonged for almost 50 years. i suggest that you listen and see at the same time - because sometimes music is not just to be heard, but also to be seen - the proof that our european union is a synthesis of history, talent, youth and therefore of the future. let's do it, if possible, with our phones off. miss skride, i give the floor to your violin. (applause) i would like to thank
the final draft agenda for the may i and ii partsession, as drawn up by the conference of presidents on wednesday 4 may, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131. the following amendments have been proposed:monday:no amendment request has been submitted. tuesday: no request for amendment has been submitted. wednesday: the independence and democracy group has asked for its oral question to the commission, tabled by mr farage, on the commission's procedure for avoiding any risk of conflict of interest to be included. does anyone wish to explain the request for independence and democracy?
in accordance with our rules of procedure, we should now ask whether anyone wishes to express their support for the proposal.
since no one wishes to speak against mr farage's proposal, we shall put it to the vote. (the motion is rejected)
you are raising a point of order and, as you know, you have to indicate to me the rule you are referring to.
all right, it will be noted in the record that you wanted to vote yes. thursday: no request for amendment has been submitted.
your speech is for wednesday, but please continue.
thank you so much for reminding me that you wrote to me. i have your letter in writing and the reply to your remarks prepared by the services is under my signature. you will receive it immediately. sessions of 25.05.2005 and 26.05.2005no request for amendment has been made. (parliament adopted the agenda)
we now begin the one-minute speaking time on matters of political importance.
we have finished with this item on the agenda.
the next item on the agenda is the statement from the committee, justice for the family of robert mccartney. i want to tell you that the sisters of robert mccartney are in the stands, with mr. niall o'neill. we welcome you to our debate.
mr president, madam commissioner, i begin by congratulating mr hegyi on his report, which is based on a commission proposal, and consists of two different texts: a follow-up communication to the 2001 communication on cinema, on the protection of cinematographic heritage and state aid, and a proposal for a council and european parliament recommendation, which relates only to cinematographic heritage, since parliament currently lacks legislative capacity in the area of aid. europe is the birthplace of cinema. our film heritage must be protected because it contains an important part of our memory, expresses our cultural identity and shows the diversity of our peoples; it covers, as the rapporteur says, all aspects of our lives since the end of the 19th century. it is also an economic asset whose protection can contribute to growth and employment, as well as to the promotion of policies of innovation, research and technological development that boost overall industrial competitiveness. the commission has rightly understood this when it based its recommendation on article 157 of the treaty, which deals with the competitiveness of related industrial activities, thus making co-decision possible. the dominance of north american films on the european market - with a share of around 75% - the difficulty of european films to penetrate the home market - they account for only 10% of the community market - and the lack of interest in film production all call for a thorough response. i therefore really look forward to the results of the study announced by the commission on the economic and cultural impact of existing state aid and i welcome the commission's extension of the validity of the criteria for aid to film and television production until 2007, and i am pleased that this has been included in mr hegyi's report. i would like to stress the importance of public service broadcasting in protecting the cinematographic heritage, extending its scope to television productions and meeting the requirements of public service. i believe that they must be taken into account in order to make progress in the development of the audiovisual heritage.
on behalf of the pse group. madam commissioner, as you know, the european parliament has been following very closely the current negotiating process with mercosur, a region with which we europeans have important links, not only economic but also historical, political and cultural. let me address my comments and questions to you, madam commissioner, as a member of the committee on international trade of this parliament and of its delegation for relations with mercosur, which will be on an official visit to brazil next week. after the stagnation of the negotiations last autumn - you mentioned it - and their subsequent hibernation, i am pleased to note that the commission is making every effort to reach an agreement. however, i am concerned - and you have also mentioned this - about the tensions that may arise between these negotiations and the doha round negotiations, which i understand are the union's top priority in the field of trade policy, particularly in view of the hong kong ministerial conference in december this year. could you elaborate - and you have already mentioned this - on the mutual impact of both negotiation processes? at the start of the negotiations it was stressed that the basis of the association agreement would be the wto agreement. i wonder how the results of the association agreement round will be incorporated if it is reached before december. from what i can see, it's going to be difficult, but if it's achieved, how will it be done? i would like to ask you briefly, in telegraphic style, three questions: what solution is there to the differences in the lack of reciprocity between the free movement of agricultural products requested from mercosur and our demands for the opening of its market, in order to achieve the free movement of services, especially in the field of telecommunications and financial services? secondly, how do you intend to reconcile the access of developing countries to our market with the protection of our fisheries and agri-food industries? and finally, thirdly, could you briefly assess the commission's cooperation and technical assistance programmes for the institutional development of mercosur with a view to greater subregional integration at political and economic level?
president of the council. mr president, i should first like to thank the rapporteur for raising this extremely important issue. we share his analysis of the importance of transeuropean networks, which is manifested in several ways: firstly, these transeuropean networks are part of a growth initiative which has been relaunched by the european council; they contribute or are expected to contribute to the competitiveness objective as defined by the march european council; they are also an essential element of the proper functioning of the internal market and, above all, they are indispensable for ensuring the territorial cohesion of the european union. delays have indeed occurred and this is all the more regrettable as a number of projects were decided under a fast-start programme. these projects were to be launched rapidly. it is precisely these issues and the reasons for these delays that have been the subject of the high level group on trans-european transport networks chaired by mr karel van miert, in particular the delays experienced by cross-border sections. to overcome these delays, the council adopted regulation no 807/2004 in april 2004, which aims in particular to increase the rate of community financing for certain projects. the obvious objective of the regulation is to ensure adequate co-financing for the projects in question; the commission is responsible for implementing this regulation and i am sure the vice-president will explain this to you. the council received a new proposal for a regulation on this subject on 27 july 2004. the proposal aims to improve the financing of the transeuropean transport and energy networks for the period 2007-13. the relevant council working party has examined the text only once. in view of the significant financial implications of this proposal, several delegations wished to wait until the discussion on the financial perspective was concluded before taking a final decision. i can say on behalf of the presidency that the implementation of this programme and these projects is of paramount importance for the reasons we have indicated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the presidency therefore considers that the budget proposed by the commission is adequate and sufficient. the council is also examining a commission communication on the possibility of establishing a community guarantee instrument for loans for transeuropean transport network projects. i think that we will only be able to implement this set of projects if we are also able to create innovative financing methods. you have suggested a number of them, including a better distribution between the private and the public. i am sure that, on the basis of these various elements, we will be able to launch these projects as soon as possible, since this is also an important factor in the context of enlargement.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the transport committee, i would like to thank the european parliament for the kindness of asking this question today, because it allows me to stress once again, mr minister, the central role of the transeuropean transport networks in the implementation of the lisbon strategy and in the growth of europe. you yourself, mr schmit, mentioned territorial cohesion, which is essential for an enlarged europe. you also mentioned the competitiveness objective of the lisbon strategy. i am one of those who believe that mobility is now an integral part of competitiveness. before answering the questions put by the chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, mr costa, i should like to mention a few figures which confirm the importance of these networks. time lost in congestion in europe has been estimated at 1% of gross domestic product, or almost as much as the european union's budget, over 100 billion. the commission's 2003 impact assessment concluded that the construction of the major trans-european network projects could generate a surplus of economic growth of around 0.25% of gdp, i.e. one million permanent, highly skilled jobs. mr costa pointed out the delays in the implementation of essen projects. the delay is mainly due to the insufficiency of community aid. the aid was not always sufficient to encourage investors to mobilise and coordinate their efforts, particularly for transnational links. it is clear that these projects will not be realised without a financial effort by the european union, which is reflected in this reasonable and long-overdue increase in the community budget devoted to the transeuropean networks. if you will allow me, i will briefly touch on three questions. the first concerns the estimate by the van miert group of the total of thirty priority projects at eur 225 billion for the period 2003 to 2020. after a survey of the member states, the commission has established the financial needs for each of the projects up to 2020. adding these needs together gives an investment profile which shows that for the period 2007-13, the peak of financial needs will be concentrated in the middle of the new financial perspective period. this profile indicates that investment needs are in the order of eur 140 billion for the period 2007-2013 and that they will increase considerably between 2007, with eur 17 billion, and 2010, with eur 25 billion, taking into account in particular the start-up of major projects, such as the alpine crossings of the brenner and the mont cenis, which will absorb very large sums. the budget of eur 20 000 300 000 proposed by the commission is a minimum amount. in fact, if i stick to the sections of the priority projects which are ready to be committed today, i can say before this parliament, mr president, that the entire average annual budget proposed by the commission for 2007-2013 would already be absorbed. the requests for funding from the member states received by the commission in 2003 and 2004 would already allow three to four times the current budget to be spent. i am addressing the luxembourg presidency because we really have to have these figures in mind to understand that this money will be used immediately, under the best possible conditions. i would add that in addition to the priority projects, the rest of the network will have to be co-financed, particularly technological projects such as the european rail traffic management system ertms or the sesame initiative on air traffic management. all this shows you, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of maintaining at least the proposed budget of eur 20 300 000. this money will be put to good use as soon as the european union can have it. that's my first answer. i now come to the second question. as regards the distribution of the budget, it will be based, in the first instance, on a multiannual indicative programme 2007-13 which will specify the amounts allocated per project and per period. of course, these grants will be conditional on the actual progress of the projects. this programme should be established during 2006. secondly, part of the budget will be distributed on the basis of annual calls for proposals. projects will be selected on the basis of the state of preparation of the project, the soundness of the financial package and the environmental impact. the commission will pay particular attention to obtaining firm commitments from member states to ensure that priority projects proceed as planned. that is my answer to the second question. as regards the third point which mr costa has rightly emphasized, i would like to confirm that the 48 crossborder sections of the 30 priority projects to which you refer are and will continue to be considered as priorities in the allocation of funds, provided that these crossborder sections meet the criteria of readiness and maturity which i have just mentioned. for crossborder sections that may be eligible, please note that this is not a general scale, but some crossborder sections may be eligible up to 50% if the commission's proposal is accepted. to be eligible for such a rate, projects will have to meet the following criteria: first, they will have to require actions, construction work on both sides of the border between two member states. secondly, the project must be technically and financially indivisible. finally, the member states concerned will have to commit themselves jointly to the project and set up a common structure. i personally believe very strongly in this priority given to cross-border sections. i would point out to mr costa that we do have the list of these projects, of these 48 sections. i now come to my conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen. i know that you are already convinced of the need for the union to have an efficient and effective transeuropean transport network. did you not adopt the thirty priority projects here in this parliament in april 2004? of course, mr minister, the future financial perspectives for 2007 to 2013 must make it possible to translate into practice the prospects which parliament has so wisely described. i want to be clear on this. the budget for the 30 priority projects will be given to us by your parliament and the council of ministers, and then, i am sure, we will be able to implement these 30 priority projects successfully, and i can assure you that i will make a personal and firm commitment to this. so, what i do not want to believe is that your decision will be an announcement and that only a more or less modest part of these projects will be able to be co-financed. i would like to change the subject and say, mr president, that i would like to take this opportunity to thank the luxembourg presidency for the first step we have taken in the introduction of the euro. i would like to stress that the luxembourg presidency has done everything it could to achieve this result. i should also like to point out that my colleague, mr almunia, and i have created this guarantee tool which will allow, as you mentioned earlier, only in certain cases, to use public-private partnerships. but, frankly, without the 20 300 000 euros, it will be extremely difficult for us to meet this challenge. i therefore thank parliament again for its goodwill in bringing this important matter up today. even if this is a precursor to the major discussions on the financial perspective, it is good, ladies and gentlemen, to remember that there are a number of imperatives which cannot be avoided. if we believe deeply in the success of europe, in the success of the territorial cohesion we all want, and in the success of a more competitive europe, then, quite honestly, i think we must give the right priority to our transeuropean networks, as this parliament has wisely described them, which i believe in my heart and soul to be an absolute condition for the success of europe in the years to come. (applause) i would like to thank
i have asked to speak in this debate because i fully share the reasons which led the committee on transport and tourism to put the question, through the brilliant intervention of mr costa. i know that our sectoral concerns are not the only ones threatened by the impending cuts in resources, but in any case they are part of the responsibilities of this parliament. the delay in fulfilling the commitments made in 1996 by the codecision procedure between parliament and the council on the financing of the transeuropean transport networks is a fact. it's not just an opinion. the commission's proposal for an amount of eur 20.3 billion for this objective, in the framework of the financial perspective 2007-13, is also a reality. the council is asked about the financial sufficiency to address the commitments under decision 884/2004. we respect the council's opinion, which we heard from mr schmit, who said that it was at least adequate and sufficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has outlined serious concerns in its proposal, which deserve to be reproduced in full. the commission states that 'the most flagrant delays affect two railway projects and crossborder links and prevent the full use of the dynamics created by the opening of the railway market. these delays are also one of the main sources of congestion and imbalance between modes of transport on the main routes.' at the current rate of investment, it would take more than 20 years to complete the entire trans-european transport network under the 2004 revision. the conclusion is very clear: mr barrot has shown us his ambition and the council has told us that this budget is sufficient, but we understand that if this is not completed in this way, the great projects in which peripheral countries like spain have their hopes will be frustrated. we are confident in the effectiveness of the work of the commission and the council, with the contribution of this parliament.
mr president, i would also like to thank commissioner barrot for his courage and the goodwill shown by the presidency of the council, which, more than goodwill, must show rigor in demanding more or at least sufficient funding for the transeuropean networks. parliament has always supported the transeuropean networks and their adequate financing and in fact accepts at least the proposal of 20 300 million for the financial perspective and condemns delays and obstacles, because they are delays and obstacles in boosting growth and employment and social, economic and territorial cohesion. i welcome the special attention given to crossborder sections and would like to ask the commission whether it has considered whether the amount of 20 300 million will be sufficient in the optimum case where, in at least half of the crossborder projects, the 50% possible is invested by 2013. will this amount also be sufficient to guarantee the operation of the guarantee instruments which commissioners barrot and almunia are jointly establishing? i would also like to be sure that the commission and the council are willing to concentrate on the 30 projects already adopted, ensuring their stability and the necessary momentum, without being distracted by other interests which, in the form of alternative projects, are appearing for the sake of providing fresh money. i would like to conclude by referring to the necessary flexibility and provision of additionality at the various levels of funding, both at community, national and regional level, as well as public and private, including possible synergies between transport and energy networks.
the commission's vice-president madam president, i will be very brief, but i would first like to reassure both the rapporteur and, in particular, mr chichester. we are well aware that there is a cost problem and, as regards the costs that these measures may generate, we intend to commit ourselves in our work programme for 2005 to a communication on safety in the various modes of transport, including the question of their financing. the concern of your parliament will be taken into account in this way. this reference to financing is in fact in a recital. i would also like to remind those who fear that national specificities are not being taken into account that this is a directive and not a regulation, which allows, at the stage of transposition by the member states, to take into account, under the subsidiarity principle, a number of practical considerations which will make this fight for safety more effective. finally, i would like to say to mr piecyk that he is absolutely right and that we must also be concerned about prevention along the whole transport chain. i now turn to you, mrs hennis-plasschaert, to thank you very much, because i believe that thanks to you we will be able to save time in the implementation of these safety rules. i also thank your committee, the committee on transport and tourism. you have taken this rather technical proposal at face value and have adopted a pragmatic and constructive approach in handling this matter. i am pleased to note that there is a great deal of substantive agreement between parliament, the commission and the council on the measures to be taken. the commission can therefore support the compromise reached by parliament in the negotiations with the council, which is reflected, madam president, in amendments nos 13 to 75. we can therefore accept amendments nos 13 to 75, but unfortunately not amendments nos 1 to 12. in conclusion, i hope that a decision will be taken to ensure that this directive is adopted quickly. as i said, the european union cannot afford to ignore preventive measures to protect its ports, both in relation to its population and its port industry and in relation to its international partners. all this has been very well reported by some of you. madam president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, my services will convey to you the detailed position of the commission on each of the proposed amendments. i would like to thank you very much for your attention and for your very decisive contribution to the completion of this project.
member of the commission. madam president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by thanking your rapporteur and the whole of parliament for the very good work you have done in such a short time on such a complex and sensitive subject. the review of the directive has a clear objective, we want to continue to ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers. we know very well that there is a relationship between work-related accidents and working too long. we also know that the future belongs to a resilient enterprise that introduces innovative forms of work that motivate workers to be more productive while providing them with quality work. in the interests of our fellow citizens, we must respond to these new realities in the best possible way. the european social model, which is based on quality as a factor of competitiveness, needs to be given a concrete content. this is also reflected in the consultation of citizens carried out in the context of the constitutional treaty. the commission has always sought to ensure that the revised version of the directive maintains the current level of protection for workers while providing greater flexibility in the regulation of working time. that was the case with the original proposal and i believe that the amendments proposed by parliament which the commission will be able to accept go in that direction. after hearing your debate, i will comment in more detail on the commission's position on the proposed amendments.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you very much, commissioner, for your kind words, referring not only to my report but to the joint work that we have done as all the members of the committee on employment and social affairs of this parliament. ladies and gentlemen, it was a coincidence that our debate on the working time directive and the european day of remembrance on 9 may coincided. the words of our president, mr borrell, yesterday, about the relationship between our duty to remember and our duty to build a europe in which euroscepticism and anti-europeanism are defeated, still ring out in this house. our debate today and the vote tomorrow have a lot to do with our responsibilities. they have a lot to do with it, because millions of europeans are waiting for the outcome of debates in which there is great expectation, because this directive is at the heart of social europe and will be a clear sign of our will and our confidence that the european social model has a future or that, on the contrary, we are throwing ourselves into the hands of the other that comes not from the other side of the atlantic, but from the pacific itself. our debates also coincide with an important moment in the construction of europe and the ratification of the constitutional treaty in various european parliaments and peoples. and at the heart of the concerns of citizens who are faced these days with the idea of whether or not to go forward by the constitutional route is always the same question: what is europe doing to improve our living conditions? we all know that this is the key point and that it is precisely in reaffirming the european model that we unite our agenda or separate it from the agenda and the concern of the citizens. the key point, as the commissioner has said, is the opt-out. parliament wants this clause to be abolished. european laws of a social nature must apply to all countries without exception. it is not enough, commissioner, to eliminate the abuses or fraud that have been committed in the past under the old legislation. the legal basis for the directive must be abolished in all the member states, as parliament says, after 36 months or whatever is left in a subsequent negotiation with the council. why would you do that? because opt-out is in flagrant contradiction with the objectives of the directive, the health and safety of workers and fundamental principles of the treaty. because it contradicts the evidence of 10 years of experience in which, in the countries where it has been applied, the health, safety and reconciliation of family and professional life of millions of women and men in europe have been seriously undermined. because it is contrary to the charter of fundamental rights and our constitutional treaty, article 91 of which states the obligation to ensure a high standard of living in employment and a limitation of working hours. because, commissioner, we are being asked to do so by european workers, their organisations, women's organisations and, also in private, by a great many employers who want a model of industrial relations which is typically european. but what about flexibility? this parliament knows that it also needs to give a response to flexibility, because in europe we need not only better quality work, but more work. that is why we are in agreement and we will give flexibility and we will vote for the annulment, but, eye, it is a do ut des, we will not vote for the annulment if the vote is not to end the opt-out clause. we believe that opt-out is regulating a europe without rules, but we are in favour of making european rules more flexible. a higher level of flexibility is not incompatible with a high level of social protection for workers, provided that a minimum of regulations and guarantees are ensured, as the wim kok report said. we also want to respond, commissioner, to the principles that are involved in the definition of watch periods; we want the acquis communautaire to be respected; we want the court of justice's decision to be respected. the shift is work time, because the workers cannot freely dispose of their time and are in the places indicated by the employer. but we are equally sensitive to the needs of european health systems, which have serious difficulties in recruiting staff to cover these periods of watch. that is why we have sought a solution that combines flexibility and security. the commissioner, the members of the committee on employment and social affairs, we believe that both terms are compatible. those who believe they are not compatible are those who seek to perpetuate the opt-out or those who seek to define guard time as non-working time. we can make an effort, we have shown that, there is a consensus in parliament. i ask the commission and the council not to break the illusion created by this agreement, because it is the old agreement that made the european social model possible. we therefore look forward to your help, your dialogue and constructive cooperation in the months ahead.
ladies and gentlemen, we are now beginning the session on the official visit of the president of afghanistan, mr hamid karzai. scharele president karzai, amadané schoma ra bâ parliamentary europe khosh amdadid megoyém, which means that we welcome president karzai to the european parliament. mr president, this parliament, like the rest of the world, has followed very closely the dramatic events that have taken place in your country over the last quarter of a century. few countries have experienced a history as tormenting as theirs: soviet occupation, civil war, international military intervention following the 9/11 attacks, and now the difficult process of transition to democracy in a country that has suffered so much and seen its social, economic and political structures profoundly transformed. mr president, we want to acknowledge your strong leadership, which is helping to develop this embryonic democracy, first on an interim basis and now as the democratically elected president of afghanistan. we also recognize the great personal risks you and your government colleagues have faced. we are all aware that there is still a long way to go. sometimes the television cameras remind us of it with the harshness of their images, sometimes the cameras are gone, but the reality is still there; the conscientious, slow and methodical reconstruction of a country devastated by decades of war does not attract as much media attention as the war itself. we know, in the western world, the importance of the impact of the event against the daily task or the daily events, which only matter when the media reflect them harshly. we also know that the consolidation of democracy is not achieved overnight, that societies are not changed by decree, that it is one thing to guarantee women's rights, for example, in a constitution, and another thing to ensure that those rights are respected in the most remote areas of a country. we also know that you are committed to equal rights for women, but you will also understand that when there are concrete events that move our consciences, concern emerges. we hope to use the indignation this produces to increase our commitment to the task of democratic reform and the progress of your country. i am sure you will mention it in your speech too. we want to engage with you in this difficult transition process. we will do everything possible to help you in the creation of a stable and democratic country. that is why this house, mr president, is looking forward with great interest to the parliamentary elections next september and, as we have spoken to you before, this parliament should seriously consider the possibility of sending a delegation to assess the current situation before the elections are held and sending observers afterwards to follow developments on the ground. we hope, mr president, that after the elections we will be able to develop close interparliamentary relations, precisely because we are confident that the european union and afghanistan will realise their great potential for friendship and cooperation. for all these reasons and because of the importance of the country you represent, it is a pleasure for me and an honour for this parliament to welcome you and give you the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the green group, mr president, let me begin by thanking the commission and the council, and the other members of this house, for accepting the invitation to discuss this question again. because today, as has been said, these are the real weapons of mass destruction, not only because of the millions of victims they cause each year, but because of the social and political consequences they cause. the uncontrolled use of pistols, revolvers, assault rifles, grenades, machine guns and similar weapons has had dramatic consequences for the safety and integrity of millions of people around the world. in some countries, such as brazil, colombia and el salvador, it is estimated that the violence carried out with such weapons is responsible for the loss of 10% of the gross domestic product. at the request of civil society and in particular the international action network against small arms (iansa), the united nations held a conference in new york in july 2001 at which a programme of action to prevent, combat and eliminate illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects was adopted. the governments of the united nations member states will meet again in new york next july for the biannual meeting on the implementation of this programme of action, and the review conference is scheduled for a year later. the programme of action calls on governments to control the production and sale of such weapons, to mark pistols to facilitate their identification after sale, to penalize the production and possession of illicit weapons, to identify and destroy surplus weapons and to establish end-use certificates for export and transit, among other measures. since 2001, considerable progress has been made, particularly in the area of national legislation. however, the general recommendations still need to be developed further. in this context, the european union and its member states must continue to lead the debate. the current process of revising the code of conduct is a good opportunity to do so. i am generally optimistic, i have to say, especially after the presidency-in-office of the council, not only today but on other occasions, has stressed the need to go further and urge governments to make a legally binding text on brokering and transfers of small arms. however, other facts make me a little more cautious, such as the fact that there are still only a few countries in the european union which have shown themselves in favour of the establishment of an international arms trade treaty. so far only finland and the united kingdom have shown themselves to be firm supporters of the idea, although spain has also made some statements in this regard, so we would like you to elaborate and complete it a little more. it is urgent, ladies and gentlemen, that we give a definitive boost to the establishment of an international arms trade treaty which should be possible just after the review conference of the united nations programme of action in july 2006. this is not only necessary, but clearly of vital importance.
mr president, i would like to thank mr schmit and mr michel for their speeches, which i would particularly like to highlight for their level of commitment. this commitment - which we are all interested in taking on - is expressed in two lines of work: the first is to put an end to the uncontrolled trade in arms and, in this sense, we must insist on the need for mechanisms to allow control from the moment the weapon is manufactured to the moment it is used, that is, we must achieve international control. and secondly, it is fundamental and very important - as other colleagues have already said - that we prepare the conditions so that at the 2006 meeting we can make progress and achieve a real international treaty regulating everything concerning the arms trade. we europeans must continue to set an example. it would be very important in the debate we are having on the code of conduct that we first of all make it more restrictive and, above all, binding on all the member states. i believe that if we all work in this direction, we can make a modest contribution from europe to bringing about an effective end to this lack of control, which is the source of most of the suffering of many peoples and of many territorial conflicts. i therefore appeal to this unity of will so that we can actually, in a horizon of no more than two years, put an end to this scourge of humanity.
vice-president of the commission. we have always tried to maintain an open and honest dialogue with the uk government, not least on information, but we also respect the will and plans and strategies of each and every member state. it would be very unfortunate if we were seen to be trying to force upon a member state anything that would then be seen as propaganda or to be trying to interfere with a debate under way in a specific member state. we instead offer our support, our help, the material and all the facts that we can make available to each and every member state. i hope that we will continue these talks and see how best we can help the uk government with information on the constitution, but the strategy always has to be a national one. we can assist, help and back up the national strategies, and that is how it has been planned up until now.
madam president, madam commissioner, in the basque country we have already voted in favour of the constitutional treaty and the result has been in the affirmative, but one of the things that struck me was that those who opposed the constitution argued that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union was reducing the rights that citizens of most member states already had, especially in the areas of housing, work, etc. i would like to ask you what we could do together, and also from the commission, to make the citizens of europe understand that the charter of fundamental rights is in addition to the rights already guaranteed by the constitutions of the member states and that european citizenship is in addition to the citizenship of the member states.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i should like to express my great satisfaction with the draft report which parliament is voting on tomorrow, because it contains in its entirety - yes, with some modifications - each of the measures which i proposed in the initial draft. in view of the broad consensus in the committee on agriculture and rural development, i hope that this report will now receive the support of the vast majority of members of this parliament. the european people's party group has, however, tabled an amendment to the report, urging the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal as soon as possible. the announcement by the european commissioner, mrs fischer boel, who is here, that the reform of the sector will be postponed has caused great unease among producers, an unease which i would like this european parliament to echo. the commissioner's announcement is a symptom of the low importance attached to such an important sector as fruit and vegetables, and i would remind you once again that the fruit and vegetable sector represents 17% of the final agricultural production of the european union, a fact which the commission seems to ignore at a crucial moment like this, when the financial perspectives for a seven-year period are being negotiated. the commission's attitude leaves much to be desired, in my view, and if i have understood the messages recently conveyed by the commissioner correctly, the community executive could include the reform within a sector, within a sack, of a general proposal for the implementation of a single common organization of the market in all agricultural products. in my view, this would mean mixing churras with merinas - as we say in spain - because, up to now, the fruit and vegetable sector has received a specific treatment, which has been generally positive, although it is necessary to introduce important changes on some occasions. fruit and vegetable producers were once frustrated at being treated as a separate sector, without the right to direct aid. today, however, the special scheme, based on the existence of operational funds, co-financed by the growers, has enabled them to find a means of better adapting their production to the needs of the market. although the system has its faults - what does it not have? - and although it requires some modification aimed, above all, at increasing the competitiveness of producers, it would be a mistake to assimilate fruit and vegetables to the rest of the agricultural sectors. this would mean dismantling an entire philosophy on which the progress achieved so far in the sector is based. i would like to stress the dissatisfaction which some professional organisations have conveyed to me about the delay in these legislative proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. a flexible system of crisis intervention in the hands of producer organisations would improve their role as market managers and should also serve as a bait for individual producers who have not found it profitable to join such groups. 60% of the producers are not in these groups. the draft report i have presented to the european parliament proposes precisely an alternative to the current intervention system, namely the introduction of so-called 'safe-deposit boxes', managed by the groups themselves, to finance withdrawals in times of severe crises, operations to reduce production in the event of market saturation, or even the introduction of an income insurance scheme. this well-articulated box should become the instrument which producer organizations lack today to cope with the onslaught of the market. the report also contains some measures which must be urgently put in place to deal with a problematic situation, such as the low level of association in the new member states, and it also addresses the particular problem of red fruit, for which it proposes a whole series of measures aimed at improving both the fresh and processed fruit and vegetable regime, without forgetting the need to extend the campaigns to promote products, emphasizing community origin.
member of the commission. i should like to start by thanking mr herranz garcía and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for all the work they have done on this report. the commission communication on the common market organisation in fruit and vegetables had three aims. the first was to describe how the commission had started the simplification process; the second, to present a commission working document analysing the principal figures of the sector, the implementation of the producer organisations and the related operational funds and budgetary aspects; and the third, to stimulate a debate in the council, the european parliament and within the sector. turning to the content of your report, let me begin with the role of the producer organisations. they are and will continue to be the key element in the common market organisation. i welcome your suggestions aimed at strengthening their role in the management of markets and the concentration of supply, notably concerning mergers, transnational producer organisations and specific measures focusing on the new member states. we should also consider the possibility of introducing new products and new categories of producer organisations. turning to crisis management, i should like to draw your attention to the communication on risk and crisis management in agriculture of february 2005. in addition to the horizontal measures for crisis management proposed in this context, we will evaluate the need to provide specific tools in the fruit and vegetable sector. we will specially consider the proposal for creating mutual funds. concerning processed products, the dutch presidency conclusions stated that the commission should carry out an impact analysis. that was to include a possible shift from the current regimes to an approach based on objectives and instruments already used in the cap reform. the commission will, therefore, wait for the outcome of the impact analysis before proposing any alternative for processed products. following enlargement of the european union, the community is studying the situation concerning red fruits. once the studies are finished, we will consider the appropriate measures, both in the framework of the common market organisation and vis-à-vis imports from third countries. i fully agree with you about the necessity of promoting fruit and vegetable consumption, taking into account the positive effects on public health. i would also like to mention our horizontal instruments in the cap for promoting these products. the fruit and vegetable sector is one which has benefited from this. as regards the increase in imports of fruit and vegetables from third countries, as wto members, we cannot adopt measures inconsistent with our international obligations. the most effective way to respond to market signals is to focus on quality. we will carefully consider the possibility of introducing special labels of origin for processed products made exclusively from european raw materials. with regard the compatibility of rural development instruments and the cmo operational funds, i can assure you that we will provide for measures which allow producers to benefit from both instruments, but avoid the possibility of double financing.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, we all share the need, expressed here, for some adjustments to the current cmo in order to meet the new challenges facing this sector, but nobody wants, and this is clear from the report, a reform that goes beyond these needs. the own-initiative report we are debating today has the broad, i would say majority, support not only of the committee on agriculture and rural development but, i hope, also of this parliament, especially of the sector itself - which is not easy - and it contains many of the points that my group, the socialist group, is calling for and has introduced in the form of an amendment: greater flexibility for the cpvo, the need to clarify and make less bureaucratic access to operational funds, to encourage partnership and to influence the concentration of supply and the need to protect our producers from third countries, the management of crisis situations, etc. the commission asked this parliament for its opinion on what the next reform of the fruit and vegetable sector should look like. here are the answers, answers which we share with parliament and, of course, with those concerned. we now hope and wish that they will be taken into account both in time and in substance. i would remind the commission that the report clearly calls for a legislative proposal to be tabled before this summer to strengthen and improve the role of producer organisations in the management of the market fundamentally; the future of this sector is the market, and the market is the future. let us not forget that the fruit and vegetable sector is dynamic, but at the same time very fragile, with great instability in the markets. we therefore want a reform which takes account of parliament's report and the demands of farmers themselves, and above all which is sustained and serves to improve agricultural incomes. finally, we are following very closely the doha round negotiations in order to be able to introduce these agricultural products as sensitive products. the commissioner has also put forward the idea of replacing the many coms with a single com or a single legal text. we are not in agreement with this, because of the risk this decision poses to the sector and because of the uncertainty that has already been created in the immediate future by this announcement alone. i would like to end by thanking the rapporteur for her willingness to reach this consensus, not only in the commission but also here in parliament itself and hoping that there will be good will on the part of the commission for the future, as the sector is looking forward to it.
mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for being here tonight. i hope you will convey to the commission the clear and strong message from this parliament against the postponement of the reform of the fruit and vegetables sector, as you yourself announced a short while ago. the fruit and vegetable sector is present in virtually all the countries of the european union and in all of them it suffers from the same problems. the current common customs tariff has proved effective, but it needs to be improved and a new regime that is more effective in crisis management needs to be introduced and specific measures for products that are under heavy import pressure need to be put in place. this is not protectionism. i'm from castilla-la mancha, which is a large garlic-producing region. garlic is an example of a production which has to cope with fierce imports, mainly from china, which endanger the survival of many farms. i am glad that the report includes measures in favour of this category of products and at the same time advocates the simplification of the import regime in force, in order to avoid irregularities which have been observed as a result of the existence of three different formulas to which operators can avail themselves, as they see fit, which leads to the emergence of fraudulent practices, which have sometimes been denounced by the sector to the european commission. i also agree with the range of proposals in the report to improve the competitiveness of the sector and to make the most of the budgetary resources available, which are underused year after year because of the lack of flexibility of the current common fisheries policy. the system's failings, such as the excessive bureaucratization, the legal uncertainty of producer associations and the community's lack of generosity in encouraging the concentration of supply, are the main reasons for the loss of effectiveness of the system introduced in 1976. this is a problem which i hope will be solved by the new proposal.
mr president, it is clear that the world bank is an effective instrument, and it can be more so, and i do not think the problem lies with the new leadership. i am not particularly afraid that the new leadership of the world bank will be able to redirect the energies that have been directed to other areas so far to the better functioning of the world bank. the problem is with us, in the hypocrisy of the european discourse, in which we explain to our citizens how europe wants to be important in the world, how we want to contribute to world peace. and that is what governments say to their own voters and then they make no effort whatsoever to turn those words and those promises into actual actions. the european union as such does not paint anything on the world bank. we do not need a new constitution for that; it is a matter of political will and consistency. commissioner almunia has described it perfectly. there are 25 member states that do not speak to each other at the world bank, and that has to be denounced here. it is very easy to protest the appointment of wolfowitz, and perhaps it should be, but it should be much easier for all of us to denounce our governments for being unable to coordinate on policies, appointments and criteria for granting funding.
president of the council. mr president, i would first like to correct a mistake i made about the date of the elections in kyrgyzstan. mr maat said that these elections were scheduled for 10 july. this information was provided on 6 may; so i ask you to forgive me for this mistake. i would also like to thank the honourable members who have spoken for all the extremely useful analyses they have developed, which are well suited to the importance of this region. the geopolitical and geostrategic role of the region for the european union has been clearly expressed; this means that the european union must be more present in the region. it is in our interest that stability in this region be better guaranteed, which means first of all that the aspirations of these countries to consolidate their relatively recent independence must be supported. i believe that in this context the european union can play an important role in maintaining the necessary balance between russia on the one hand and the united states and possibly china on the other. stability is all the more essential, as several speakers have stressed, since these are states which still have internal fragility and are therefore particularly exposed to the terrorist and fundamentalist threat. we must therefore work with these states to ensure that they develop into democracies where human rights are more respected, where this democratic regime is strengthened. this will only be possible if we help these countries to promote their economic development. these are quite different countries. a country like kyrgyzstan has a very different economic situation from a country like kazakhstan, one of the potentially richest states. the european union can play an extremely important role here too. we have had cooperation agreements with these countries since the 1990s and, within the framework of these cooperation agreements, we regularly hold meetings both on the cooperation we are developing and on a form of political dialogue. the message that is conveyed by your resolution, which i welcome, is that the european union has an important political role to play. we can play this role in close liaison, particularly with the osce, on all matters relating to human rights and democratic transition.
member of the commission. mr president, i also thank all the honourable members for the contributions they have made during the debate, through their speeches, to share among all the institutions of the union as much as possible of the real situation, the challenges and the strategies and instruments we have to bring freedom, the guarantee of human rights and a democratic process to the countries that make up the central asian region. because of course this will not only be vital to the aspirations of the citizens of that area; the stability, prosperity and democratization of the states which make up the region will also undoubtedly be a very important element of our own security. firstly, the elections on 10 july are very important. it is crucial that these elections take place in a calm atmosphere, with the guarantee that the will of the citizens who go to the polls will be respected. from this point of view, as i said in my opening remarks, which many of the honourable members agreed with, the intervention of the osce is crucial, and the commission understands that the role it must play in the smooth running of these elections must be coordinated with the leading role of the osce. in any event, as i also mentioned in my opening remarks, the mechanisms at our disposal were used and eur 1.3 million was allocated to the smooth running of the electoral process. it would also be desirable, if there is still no decision on this, for a delegation from this parliament to attend these elections as observers and to ensure, or try to strengthen, that the process of popular consultation is carried out with all the democratic guarantees. i would also like to make a second comment on the need for a strategy, a regional approach. many honourable members have mentioned this, the commission understands it and since 2002 there has been a strategy which was designed following the visit of the previous commissioner responsible for external relations and adopted at the end of 2002. the main objectives are the promotion of stability and security in the area, sustainable economic development, with special priority given to poverty reduction and the defence of human rights. and in developing this strategy, since one of the european union's main economic interests in the area is energy resources, the meeting with the energy ministers in november last year is of great importance, and we believe that we must continue along this line. the troika and the foreign ministers of the region will hold another important meeting in june to assess the situation and further develop the strategy. so whatever progress is made in outlining the elements of our strategy, of a common regional approach to the area, with all its dimensions of democratisation, of the fight against poverty, of defence, of guaranteeing our economic interests, of protecting human rights, all of this will of course have the support of the commission and everything that this parliament's resolution contains on this will be welcomed. and finally, as regards a particular case which mr maat referred to in his speech as 'a case of human rights violation', we do not at this moment have precise knowledge of what fact he is referring to. i would ask mr maat - although i know he is not in the chamber at the moment - to let us know so that our representatives in the area can gather all the necessary information, which we will make available to this parliament.
your honours, it is a great honour for me, as president of the european parliament, to receive today the head of state currently holding the presidency of the european union. sire, on behalf of my colleagues and myself, i give you a warm welcome. your presence in our institution is a testimony to your interest in european integration and to the important role your country plays in this process. his visit has a historical link with that of his father, grand duke jean, on 22 november 1990, almost 15 years ago. at that time, the european union had 12 member states and 340 million citizens. today we are more than twice that, 25 countries and 455 million europeans. these figures show how far we have come, how we have managed to reunite a continent and share the same values. your country, luxembourg, has always been a faithful and determined supporter of european integration, and in its presidency it is once again showing us that the so-called 'small' countries, small in size but great in history, are capable of developing great presidencies and of contributing a 'plus' of savoir-faire to community integration thanks to the work of intelligent politicians who are always available to this parliament. looking back, let us remember that the name of your country, luxembourg, is associated with important moments in european history, such as the luxembourg compromise of 1966, which brought france back to the community table. it is a tremendous moment in the history of europe that bears the name of your country. and today, barely three quarters of its term, the luxembourg presidency is already showing an impressive record, which i am sure will only increase in the remainder of its term. (applause) sire, your government has reached agreement on the stability pact during its presidency of the union, respecting its fundamental criteria; it has reoriented the lisbon strategy and we have just signed the accession treaties with romania and bulgaria in luxembourg, although i do not hide from you that the most difficult dossier, that of the financial perspectives for the next period 2007-13, is still to be closed. we trust in the efforts of the luxembourg presidency to bring it to a successful conclusion. since your proclamation as grand duke in october 2000, you have always shown a constant concern for all the inhabitants of your country, taking particular care to ensure the proper integration of the various nationalities that make up your country and avoiding all forms of social exclusion, and we know that in this task you are assisted by your wife, the grand duchess maria teresa, who is also honouring us today with her presence. (applause) together they are extending the ties that bind their house to their people and continuing the path that their father opened, combining tradition and modernity. this is perhaps how we could sum up what luxembourg represents today: the best combination of tradition and modernity that man has been able to develop. sire, you have the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
h.r.h. the grand duke of luxembourg mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fifteen years ago, in 1990, on the eve of a luxembourg presidency, my father, the grand duke jean, had the privilege of addressing this distinguished house. some of you were already sitting in the european parliament at that time. i would like to pay particular tribute to them for their constant commitment to the service of europe. mr president, i am deeply moved by the kind words you have just spoken to my country. on behalf of her majesty and all those accompanying us on this journey, i thank you for your warm welcome. 1990 2005: what changes, i would even say upheavals, in that time, including in this beautiful city of strasbourg! the new and splendid building in which we are sitting, the size of the beams of this house, is a concrete expression of the historical changes that have taken place on our continent. let us remember the enormous hopes of some and the great anxieties of others in the face of the enormity of the challenges facing us in the wake of the end of communism and the reconciliation of our continent. is it not time to take stock of the progress made since then, and to acknowledge our undeniable successes in the process? in recent months, however, as we have marked the 60th anniversary of the end of hostilities, we have been reminded that the reason for our work at the baptismal font was our desire to make war between us impossible. like you, mr president, i was in auschwitz where, together with many heads of state and government, we wept in silence at the memory of the millions of innocent victims who disappeared or were maimed in the most atrocious conditions. i would also like to point out the presence - how significant - of the chairmen of the political groups in this parliament on that day. it was the duty of memory that brought us together on that day, and it is with renewed vigilance, so that history does not repeat itself, that this duty must continue to inspire our commitment to european integration. against this background, i am very pleased to be able to share with you today some thoughts which, for obvious reasons, go beyond the agenda of our presidency. mr president, my reflections lead me first to a clear recollection of what we have achieved. the road traveled in the last 15 years is full of undeniable successes, some would even say spectacular ones. europe is now stronger because it is united around common values and is able to promote them in the world. together we have been able to ward off the risk of our union degenerating into a mere free trade area. the day after german reunification, which was achieved in the wake of the single act itself and preceded by a very successful enlargement to the south, we tried together to create a single currency which today commands respect and admiration. our union has been able to expand eastward. i should like to express the emotion felt recently in luxembourg when the highest officials of bulgaria and romania signed their country's act of accession. europe has thus been able to respond to the legitimate aspirations of these peoples who have suffered so much under an ideology which for forty years has denied them the recognition of their most basic rights. (applause) i would like to thank we have abolished our internal borders, creating a single space of freedom and security for 450 million citizens. in line with their alliances, member states have intervened autonomously in the democratic republic of congo (drc). our troops have taken over from nato in bosnia and herzegovina. in afghanistan, the european presence is essential to lead the country's transition to genuine democracy. in the face of globalisation, we have always tried to make europe a centre of excellence in relation to the economic giants of america, japan, china, india and brazil. at the same time, we have been able to adopt the motto 'unity makes strength' in order to appear in the world as a credible reference in terms of democracy and solidarity with developing countries. finally, i should like to mention the enormous progress made in food security. after long and arduous negotiations, the food hygiene standards of the 450 million consumers will be the same. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you can imagine that i could give many more examples. i would like to say that the european parliament's contribution to these successes has been decisive in many ways. your parliament has been able to achieve a prominent place in the institutional balances of our union, sometimes as an incentive, sometimes as a stimulus. in doing so, the european parliament has made its own the observation made by jean monnet in his time: 'we have no choice but to choose between the changes we will be dragged into and those we have been able to want and achieve.' the reminder of these undeniable successes and the tribute paid to the elected representatives of europe does not spare me from observing with great clarity that many of our fellow citizens, and among them many young people, feel uneasy about the construction of europe. it is clear that the freshness and enthusiasm of the new members for being part of this large family is still evident. however, the drive of the founding fathers of europe is being replaced by selfishness. the debate in the member states on the ratification of the constitutional treaty is revealing in this respect. many speakers give the impression that they feel marginalised from the challenges of the integration process. they say they are disappointed with the political leaders. however, in the absence of a credible alternative, no one has been able to propose another model. (applause) i would like to thank clearly, faith in this construction has been weakened. as one astute columnist observed: "the foundations of the postwar era - reconciliation, solidarity in the face of communist danger, reconstruction - have become mere ornaments". in the face of this bleak environment, our democratic structures often give the impression of being stuck and powerless. what explains these doubts, this confusion, these negative judgments? some philosophers, such as the frenchman marcel gauchet, tell us that this is due to the moment, that is to say to our time made of gigantic changes of direction. when change is relatively slow, as was the case in the 1970s and 1980s, adaptation is not very difficult. but when it produces a disruption of traditional benchmarks, such as we know in particular through globalization, it is a different matter! we have to digest the breaks, reinvent the beacons, rebuild the instruments. in short, to redefine perspectives and visions. i would like to recall a thought by michel rocard. i quote: 'one of the tragedies of europe is that it is a stewardship.' and indeed, it is necessary to agree with the former prime minister that it is saddening and therefore very unmotivating for the minds of our citizens, especially for young people, that the union is the privileged domain of money, capital, investment, standards and subsidies. it is true that these are important matters, but they are so arid that they are hardly likely to arouse much emotion. let us remember that from the very beginning of the construction of europe, nothing would have been possible without the combination of a vision of the heart and competence. with the emergence of this great europe, is it not time to ask the central question that remains the same: why do we want to live together and share all or part of our destiny? the answer is certainly not self-evident. it is 450 million human beings, with their own decisions and ambitions, with their own weaknesses and passions, but above all with their own prodigious strengths and qualities, that are the real issue. yet these human beings are supposed to share the same historical destiny on the same territory: our europe. the european adventure can only be built around peoples and nations, reflecting our great diversity. each of these nations represents a territory with its beauties and riches, but also with its scars that time has left in our memories. in identifying what should be preserved and what should be considered obsolete, the first task of our union is to reconcile the legacy of the past with the challenges of the future. it is from within itself, from its own way of advancing and building itself, that it must now invent its legitimacy. in the face of powerful development hubs, how can we overcome the risks of a decline that no one can control individually? but more importantly, how can the conditions for a new boom be created in solidarity? in these terms, the rebirth of europe - which is our collective ambition - should be the social project of the generations that are about to take over. to convince our citizens, let us remember that the well-being and prosperity of a people cannot be measured exclusively in terms of gdp. let us also be careful not to build a europe that benefits a few and at the same time is rife with situations of social exclusion, violence in all its forms, unemployment and disregard for the preservation of our environment. let us also remember that the best growth curve is of little value if it does not translate into better access to the most basic goods such as education, culture, health, social justice and above all work! (applause) the best way to define this project of society is through democratic debate. this debate obviously cannot be confined to this parliament, as you very aptly wished in your resolution on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. as stated in the resolution, the active involvement of citizens in the ratification discussions should be promoted, with the help of civil society organisations and our societies. i am glad to see that your message has not gone unheeded. on the contrary, we must recognize that the debates are heated. it is true that the theses defended and the options put forward sometimes leave too much room for demagogy and even for falsehoods. (applause) i would like to thank i can only hope that the distinguished members of this house will be directly involved and that, beyond political affiliations, the same ambition will emerge: to make europe the actor of its own history. i am merely repeating what my father said to you in 1990: 'you are the elected representatives of our countries. be able to mobilize and draw all creative forces behind you". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to live together we must understand each other better. to do this, we must enrich ourselves with our diversity. the luxembourg people are, in a sense, "condemned" to discover the other, in view of their sociological specificity. this is also true of its prosperity. in the countless trips i have made over the past 25 years, which have taken me to every continent, i have quickly realised that the grand duchy as such cannot alone generate the interest of potential investors. on the other hand, the fact that my country, albeit modest in size, is at the centre of the union and firmly anchored in this privileged area has often been decisive in our efforts to modernise and diversify our economy. for luxembourg, the choice of europe is therefore a natural one. history has shown us that the existence of our nation as an isolated state could at any moment be called into question, that it could have disappeared and it knows it. we value our privilege as a founding member state of the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by quoting a thought expressed by milan kundera shortly after the fall of communism: 'it often seems to me - he said - that the known european culture conceals another unknown culture, that of the small nations. . . . it is assumed that the small are necessarily imitators of the great. it's all a lie. they're actually very different. the europe of the small nations is another europe, it has a different outlook and its thinking is often the true counterweight to the europe of the big ones". (applause) i would like to thank i also wanted to remind you of this today and thank you for your attention. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
on behalf of the european parliament, i thank you, sire, for your words, which demonstrate your profound knowledge of our political structure, of which your country has been a privileged witness and actor. your words have also been words of encouragement for the daily work of this institution, and i can only wish you and your wife a happy stay in strasbourg for as long as you are still with us. (applause from the right)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as you will recall, i made a statement on the end of the second world war in europe last monday, which coincided with europe day, in a month of may which also marks the anniversary of the accession of ten new countries. in view of this triple coincidence, the conference of presidents decided to hold a debate today on the future of europe 60 years after the second world war, something more than a mere commemoration, something more than a retrospective vision: a vision of our future from the memory of our past. to introduce it, we have mr juncker and mr barroso here today... (applause)... who were recently in moscow attending the events there to commemorate the end of the war and who are now joining us in this debate which, as i say to them - and i want to stress this - is about looking to our future and not just remembering the past. we appreciate the efforts you've both made to be here among us. your presence certainly enhances our debate. i shall give the floor to them first, as is the custom.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, we have had to put up with mr belder telling us what he thought, or rather what he did not think, about the foreign service. that is the masochism of this parliament, for which you, mr president, are very much responsible. but, finally, having said that, i think this is a very important issue and i therefore welcome the fact that the committee on constitutional affairs has taken this initiative. when we discussed this issue at the convention, there was a huge controversy and my friend and colleague elmar brok was one of those who pushed the issue the most. if i am asked what is one of the most striking new features of the european constitution, i do not hesitate to say that the foreign minister. in my view, the figure of the foreign minister, a double-hatter, that is to say, appointed by the european council but vice-president of the european commission, has finally come to the fore because, for the more intergovernmentalists, this is a way of keeping the money and staff of the commission and, for the more communityist, this is a way of having a say in the union's foreign policy. it is therefore very important how we structure this minister's main instrument: the foreign service. and, madam vice president, you, in football terms, have been a "reservist". what do you mean, "reserved"? that you haven't told us anything. he told us in the document prepared by his services that they are negotiating and that we will see what happens. i would like to say that this is a very important issue for my group, the european people's party, and that, knowing that foreign policy is a matter for governments and not for peoples, a matter for princes and not for peoples, as the old axiom goes, we in this parliament want to have control over the union's foreign policy. that is why the location of the foreign service is a crucial issue. we will therefore be looking very carefully at the location of this office and i am sure that my friends and colleagues in the group will be able to tell you very clearly in their speeches where we want it to be located.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to the report we are voting on tomorrow. the report reflects the balance between parliament's full support for the defence of the union's interests in the current negotiations and its ambition to bring this development round to a successful conclusion, which implies the full integration and participation of the developing countries (developing countries) in the world economy. with this report, this house intends to send a strong political message of support for the progress of the negotiations, in which the commission is playing an essential role, by reiterating our commitment to the wto and its multilateral trading system, which is undoubtedly the best mechanism for promoting fair, supportive and mutually beneficial trade. this message comes at a very opportune time, given that the doha programme is at a crossroads, at a key moment in its march from which it must not retreat. following the failure of the cancun ministerial conference, the agreement of 1 august 2004 is of undoubted political importance, since it has put the negotiations on track and has also recognised the need to fully integrate the developing countries into the global economy. now, this is just a road map. the success of the negotiations depends on the firm political will of all parties to reach a substantive agreement in hong kong. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft agreement on the future of the european union. to this end, concrete and detailed commitments with dates and deadlines should be reached through a transparent, effective and inclusive negotiation process in which all wto member countries participate fully. in the field of development, we must bring the problems of poverty, malnutrition and hunger in the world to the negotiating table, with the aim of halving them by 2015, as envisaged in the millennium declaration, through a closer relationship between the wto and the other international organisations. it would also be useful for the commission to make proposals to develop trade integration mechanisms for developing countries to compensate for the losses that trade liberalisation may cause them. progress in the areas of technical assistance and capacity building and the promotion of south-south trade are also of particular relevance in ensuring the integration of developing countries into the world economy and boosting their export capacity. in agriculture, wto members must pursue their work in a balanced way on the three pillars - export subsidies, domestic aid and market access - to achieve detailed negotiating arrangements for hong kong and parallel disarmament by all wto members. as regards market access for non-agricultural products, the nama, the door should be opened to flexibility and to the application of non-full reciprocity by the developing countries, applying to them the principle of special and differential treatment. in services, revised quality offers should be presented in may and, as far as services relating to the basic needs of citizens are concerned, i do not think that liberalization should be demanded of the developing countries. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the success of the round, the legitimacy and credibility of the wto also depend, of course, on civil society feeling that it is partaking of the benefits of international trade. in a process which has since seattle become of great social interest, it seems necessary to emphasize the role that democratic parliaments must play as an expression of citizens' feelings in international forums such as the wto and, in the case of this parliament, as a democratic control body of the union's trade policy and future co-legislator in this field once the european constitution enters into force. i would like to add a brief word to the long list of advances which this constitution represents and which justify the european acceptance of it, both in france and in other countries. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as the spanish poet antonio machado said, 'there is no road for the traveller, but a road is made by walking'. and it's that we're halfway between geneva and hong kong, between the nostalgia of what's left behind and the anxiety of getting there. we must come to hong kong with an ambitious and balanced proposal in which civil society and all wto member countries feel involved and satisfied with the outcome.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i congratulate mr moreno sánchez on his excellent report, which shows his vision and ability to identify common objectives in a dossier as wide and complex as the doha negotiations. the aim of this round, which was called the 'development' round from its inception in 2001, is to strengthen the basic principles of the multilateral trading framework by providing an appropriate response to the problems of developing countries. the success of the negotiations must enable them to make trade an integral part of their national development policies and, to this end, we must have sufficient flexibility to address the precarious situation of the least developed countries, to recognise the new role of emerging countries and to deal with the special impact of liberalisation processes on vulnerable countries. the rapporteur, aware of this problem, rightly considers the need to provide specific technical assistance and capacity building to developing countries; the possibility of introducing a development compartment for the least developed countries in the agricultural negotiations; the promotion of south-south trade and the need for emerging countries to continue to open their markets to the least developed countries; and he recognises as a backbone the principle of special and differential treatment, which implies non-reciprocity in trade rounds and should allow for adaptation to the profile of each developing country. its implementation should enable the international monetary fund, among other organisations, to develop the trade integration mechanism to compensate for losses that trade liberalisation may cause them. as rapporteur for the report on the generalized system of preferences, i very much welcome the rapporteur's support for my proposal to pay attention to the erosion of tariff preferences that the round may cause, and i repeat the request to the commission to draw up a special report examining its impact and the measures to be taken. the report by mr moreno sánchez is a magnificent contribution to dispelling reservations and moving forward in a round which meets the aspirations of all its members for progress.
the question i have the honour to put on behalf of the committee on international trade concerns the current state of our trade relations with china. as you know, china's accession to the wto in 2001, which parliament supported, was the result of laborious negotiations in which the european union played a very important role. there was no precedent for the entry of a trading partner whose rules were so far removed from the common system. it should be remembered that becoming a wto member was a goal pursued conscientiously by china for ten years, for which it made a series of painstaking concessions in all sectors, committed itself to fulfilling its obligations and agreed to the monitoring of such compliance. this has been stated repeatedly by chinese leaders, especially since the policy initiated by deng xiaoping. so far, forecasts of widespread conflict with china have not come to fruition. however, recurring problems arise in areas such as intellectual property protection, the fight against counterfeiting and forgery, transparency of legislation, standardisation and certification, the opening up of services, especially financial, telecommunications and transport services, and numerous non-trade barriers, for example the ccc, the famous china compulsory certification, which is almost impossible to obtain. but the essential point is that china is faced with a major contradiction: opening up its market and protecting its own industry, in a context in which rules such as the application of ilo conventions on child labour, the formation of free trade unions, etc. are not within the context of the wto, but are important, as is environmental protection, and in this connection i would like to remind you that china signed the kyoto protocol two years ago. we are in a situation right now where it seems that china is testing the boundaries of what can be acceptable. and the textile sector, to which other colleagues will refer, is an example of this, since it affects many countries and not just the european union. it is not a question of calling into question the decision taken on 1 january to liberalize the market completely, but of examining, for example, the extent to which a dumping policy can invade markets, how energy can be subsidised, how the financing policy is being implemented and whether there is preferential financing, etc. these are matters of importance. another very significant concrete example is the phonogram industry, where we are faced with a dramatic situation in europe. right now, most of the piracy, almost 70%, is in china and it's developing a lot on the internet. also, it's almost impossible to perceive copyright, because the structures don't even exist. in any case, i would like to remind you that the european union has supported china's integration into the world economy. this is a challenge for all of us and it calls for an unprecedented process of economic and social reform. china still has ten years to complete its transition to a market economy. in any case, what is certain is that, right now, china has gone from being a centrally planned economy to an economy in which it seems to be ruled by manchester capitalism with a communist mandarin. the chinese are the ones who have to take charge of their evolution, but it is important that we can have control with maximum transparency and maximum knowledge. in conclusion, mr president, we are in the final phase of the doha negotiations, which must be concluded precisely on chinese territory, with such decisive issues as the opening up of its economy, the exchange rate of its currency or stability in a part of the world with a very worrying arms race. china is also a prominent player in the club of twenty, which brings together some of the great tenors of the new world scene, and because of its history, its weight and also because the european union has seriously bet on china's incorporation into world trade, i think it makes sense to raise this question at this time, knowing that the colour of the cats does not matter to hunt mice, but that they must respect each other in order to survive together.
mr president, commissioner, last weekend one of the largest ships in the world docked in the port of valencia. it came from china and carried 5,100 containers, mainly of textile products. some people have described it as the ship of unemployment, of job destruction, but one senior business leader has pointed out that our great challenge is that this ship does not return empty to china, but full of our products for that huge and growing market. i believe that this is precisely our great opportunity as europeans. but for that to be possible, two conditions are indispensable. the first is that the opening up of markets and the progression of trade should be of a reasonable scale and that the textile sector should be helped in its restructuring process. we cannot allow a serious imbalance to develop which will end up destroying the european textile industry and cause serious social damage in many european regions. the second is that we must all play by the same rules and that the conditions must be reciprocal. that includes compliance with wto agreements, which have already been mentioned in various interventions here. we must also demand that the rules we all have to follow include respect for ilo conventions and the protection of workers. i believe that the commission should heed the request of five countries of the union to clearly identify all the products seriously affected by the chinese incursion and to immediately initiate an investigation and consultation procedure with china. commissioner, i am sure you have the support of this house to continue working and to find a negotiated and cautious solution, as you have said. it should be clear, however, that if there is no adequate response, the only remedy is to take safeguard measures. let us today make clear the rules of the game that we must all abide by. let us anticipate today the changes that will come tomorrow and create the reasonable conditions for european industry to be able to meet the challenges it faces.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are about to vote on in a few minutes covers or tries to cover two fundamental objectives: first, to evaluate the implementation of the information and communication strategy of the european institutions, that is to say, to look back and see what we have not done well; and secondly, to propose some effective ideas that contribute to making information and communication policy better, that is to say, to look forward and see how we can improve that policy. i would like to thank all the political groups, and especially the shadow rapporteurs - maria badía, giulietto chiesa, helga trüpel and miguel portas - for the effort they have made to enrich the report, which they have undoubtedly achieved, and to reach a broad agreement which will allow us to put to the vote a text which revolves around five basic agreements. we are basically agreed that we must ensure that information reaches every citizen, that it reaches him through the most modern instruments, namely television, radio, the internet and new technologies. it is not enough to have the answers that a few citizens who are already aware of their european identity and who already know what questions to ask are looking for. we must make europe's conscience, what it means to be european, known to everyone, and sooner or later everyone must feel the need to ask what the european union can do for them. we basically agree that to do that we must get the messages of the european institutions to the right audiences. we must ensure that the messages arouse the interest of the citizens, of each of them, in accordance with their respective concerns, because it makes no sense to spend a lot of money on saying generalities that in the end do not serve almost anything. the message that is relevant to each household must be introduced. and for that we have to decentralize information, channel it through local and regional media, relying on good professionals, real professionals who know how to help the media the way the media needs to be helped. we are basically agreed that the legitimate expectations of citizens to participate actively in the development of the european union will only flourish if we are able to reach the emotions of the citizens. the european union is no longer an ordinary international organisation with purely economic aims. it's a community of values. these values are the soul of the european union. we have to make it visible and we have to make it palatable. we are basically agreed that from now on we can do very little without the cooperation of the member states and the national parliaments. and we basically agree that we will be wrong if we do not get interinstitutional cooperation to work properly. the last point, that of collaboration between the various european institutions, has so far, during the preparation of the report, resulted in a very fluid, unusually fluid, i would say, dialogue with the european commission, and we all want it to continue to be so. but wanting it isn't enough. wishes are not enough. only the facts count. it is a fact that, with this report, the european parliament has tried to get as close as possible to the commission. the commission now has two options: either to take parliament's contributions into account in the new communication which is due to be published, or to dispense with them. in the first case, we will go forward; in the second case, we will take a big leap backwards. so, mrs wallström, the ball is in your court, but as i am sure you will be able to get it right and as i can also testify to your willingness to dialogue and agree, i am also sure that you will be able to take advantage of this opportunity for parliament and the commission to go together in the exciting task of communicating europe. i'll see you later.
vice-president of the commission. i am very pleased to address today, in this house, the vital topic of communicating europe to our citizens. mr herrero-tejedor has done an excellent job in tabling a report that poses the right questions and suggests important answers. i welcome the rapporteur’s suggestion that this plenary should have a debate on communication at least once a year. the support of europeans for the european project hinges on our communication efforts. we have all known for years – and the ongoing public debates on the ratification of our constitution show this clearly enough – that despite our common efforts to communicate, europe’s citizens still say that do not know enough about, or are not interested in, the european union, and do not understand its role and its benefits for them. less than half voted in last year’s european elections. apathy and ignorance are enemies of our democratic foundations. as our latest eurobarometer reveals, there is a clear correlation between the level of information and the support for the constitutional treaty; 75% of those who know the constitution well declared they were in favour, while the support of those who have never heard about the constitution is only 22%. the conclusion is evident: the need to communicate our projects is crucial for the future of the european union. communicating europe is a highly complex task because european construction is in itself complex; because the european project is an evolving project and because perceptions of the european project vary and are defined, to a large extent, by national history and circumstances. moreover, we should never forget that no communication can be better than the policies it wants to communicate. more than ever before, the european union needs to explain its aims and policies clearly and comprehensively. that is why the barroso commission has made communication one of its strategic priorities. the foremost priority of the present commission is connecting with citizens. however, i should like to add that this is not just the commission’s responsibility. in fact, it is very much the responsibility of all players: parliament, the council and, above all, the member states. the commission will therefore put forward a white paper on communication. it will identify options and possible solutions to the challenges that have been outlined and will be the starting point of a long-term process of structural reform and change in communication culture, involving all actors concerned within and outside the commission. the new approach will follow three strategic principles, which are also taken into account in the draft of the herrero-tejedor report that you are debating today. the first involves listening to people and taking their interests and concerns into account; the second, explaining our policies and their impact on people’s daily lives; and the third, connecting with people by communicating more and as closely as possible on topics that are of real interest to citizens. we have identified five main areas for action. the first is political commitment and ownership. commissioners will engage as key communicators about all portfolios. they will also get involved in better planning and coordination of communication activities, which will concern all levels. the commission will better integrate communication into our working culture and into policy formulation. the second involves professionalising our communications. that includes providing an effective and service-minded spokesperson service, improving research through polling and surveying and evaluating the impact of our communication activities. we must make better use of our tools and provide more and better training. the third concerns connecting with and responding to citizens. that involves adapting messages and matching national and local concerns – instead of taking a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach – and conveying them as close to the citizen as possible. as proposed by mr herrero-tejedor, that means using contemporary tools, giving priority to those which are more likely to reach the greatest number of citizens, such as television, radio and the internet; using a language that people understand and a more decentralised implementation; using our representations in the member states as well as our relays and networks in close cooperation with parliament and the member states. our fourth focus is on adapting the means to the objectives. i believe we can all agree that communication is a human-resource- and budget-intensive activity. we will, therefore, need to allocate financial and human resources in a manner corresponding to our goals. communication will have to be considered as an in-built cost in all activities. all of that will be based on a qualitative and quantitative assessment of communication activities within the institutions. last but not least, the fifth point is that we need to work together. we need to work with the member states and with other actors. a progressive approach, leading to the possibility of forming an over-arching european union approach to communication based on real coordination and synergies between the institutions, should be established. however, we cannot forget other key actors, such as national and regional governments and parliaments, civil society and the media, focusing particularly on the regional and local media in the member states. the next step will be the white paper and the results of the broad consultation process we will launch, which will, hopefully, lead to more consistent and efficient communication with europeans, which is our common responsibility.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all, i would like to stress the importance of this report from parliament on the implementation of the information and communication strategy of the european union, and also to welcome the willingness shown by the commission, since, for the first time, before its presentation, this strategy has been discussed with parliament, which can thus influence its final content, rather than merely giving a response. the aim of this strategy should be, first and foremost, to keep citizens continuously and adequately informed, in order to promote their knowledge, interest and participation in the affairs of the european union. the debates taking place in the various countries in connection with the adoption of the constitutional treaty reveal the high degree of ignorance about the functioning, policies and workings of the union. the outcome of this strategy should demonstrate to citizens how membership of the european union benefits them in their daily lives. action is needed on many fronts, reinforcing the media preferred by citizens, such as television and radio, for their greater ability to penetrate households, and, in the age of the information society, it is vital to put the content of union websites in the official languages of the union and also in those with official status in the member states. european citizens have the right to full and impartial information on community affairs in their own language, on the basis of respect for and protection of cultural diversity and as a guarantee of their understanding of and commitment to the project of european integration. if we really want an informed citizenry, i think it is entirely appropriate to insist that studies on the european union be incorporated into the educational curricula of the member states, to work from the grassroots on fostering the feeling and awareness of european citizenship. the communication strategy of the union has so far proved to be insufficient and deficient, and it is therefore essential that the commission, in its next communication, which is already announced for this month, take account of the recommendations of this parliament's report in order to achieve a european union closer to the citizens.
the reality is that not only citizens, but also politicians in the member states, opinion-makers and parliamentarians know very little about what the european union is, what it does, what it is for and what decisions are taken here. and in some cases, out of ignorance or bad faith, their only message is to explain that some of the problems they have and are unable to solve are due to the european union, hiding instead the positive measures for citizens that have been taken here. i therefore believe that a communication strategy, in addition to many other things that this report says, should first of all be aimed not only at citizens but also at opinion makers and politicians in the member states, starting with the national members themselves. and secondly, it should have a clear purpose, a very specific purpose: to communicate to the citizens what is done here. it is not just, and this is where it sometimes falls, european anthems and flags and music, and the anthem of the ninth symphony. it is about conveying to the citizens what is done here and how much it benefits their lives, to counteract the negative publicity of many national politicians.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is fully aware of the seriousness of the drought situation in spain. she understands the concerns involved and is determined to help. there are certain tools that provide opportunities in situations like this. the commission has already adopted a decision on 10 may authorising the use of set-aside land for grazing in nine autonomous communities in spain. however, the commission has not received any other specific request from the spanish authorities concerning the application of the direct aid schemes in the context of the frost and hail issue. any request by the spanish authorities to the commission - for example, for the payment of advances - will be given serious consideration. the commission's response will be based on the legislative provisions in force, taking into account the available budget. the commission has adopted a communication outlining different alternatives for dealing with risks and crises in agriculture. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. i can say, however, that the commission, in response to a request from the european parliament, will shortly launch a pilot study on agricultural insurance schemes. in this context, i would also like to refer to the request for the transfer of intervention stocks contained in the resolution. the commission is firmly opposed to such transfers in order to avoid market distortions which disadvantage local and regional producers and traders. as regards the request for flexibility in the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, which is set out in the resolution, the spanish authorities are responsible for this subject, subject to certain criteria. although there is scope for using rural development resources to provide relief to producers affected by the hail or frost, the commission has not received any such request from the spanish authorities to date. if such a request is made, the commission will examine it immediately in order to do everything possible. in this context, the possibility of reallocating funds already earmarked for rural development by channelling them into support measures such as the 'restoration of agricultural production potential' provided for under council regulation 1257/1999 could be considered. the spanish authorities could also, as in the case of portugal, consider derogating from the application of certain measures, such as agri-environmental measures, by notifying the commission of cases recognised as 'force majeure' under commission regulation 817/2004. as regards the risk of forest fires, certain preventive actions may be included in rural development measures financed by the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund under council regulation (ec) no 1257/1999. the spanish authorities may also request the amendment of regional programmes in order to strengthen forest fire prevention measures within these programmes. it should, however, be noted that the mobilisation of additional support under the above measures can only be done within the limits of the funds available for existing programmes. as regards the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, it is true that severe drought and frost can be regarded as natural disasters and therefore fall generally within the scope of the fund. however, in order to mobilise the fund, the member state concerned must submit a request to the commission within 10 weeks of the date of the first loss. in order to be eligible for aid, the estimated cost of the total direct damage must exceed eur 3 billion in 2002 prices, or 0,6% of the gross national product of the state concerned; the lower of these two amounts shall be taken into account. this means that the loss threshold applicable in the case of spain for 2005 is just over eur 3,1 billion in current prices. the fund may only cover specific assistance measures to address emergency needs taken by public authorities, such as temporary restoration of critical infrastructure, allowing the return to normal daily activities. it is important to emphasise that the european union solidarity fund was not set up to cover all costs linked to natural disasters. in particular, the eu solidarity fund does not allow for compensation for private losses, including even in the agricultural sector. the commission has repeatedly demonstrated that it makes full use of the solidarity fund for disaster-stricken states, including the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for the prestige shipwreck. but the fact that some flexibility is sought does not mean that certain provisions of the regulation will be disregarded. the commission has also, as the honourable members will be aware, adopted on 6 april a proposal for a new solidarity fund. the proposal, which will be examined by the council and parliament, provides, inter alia, for a significant reduction in the damage thresholds for mobilising the fund, extends its scope and defines a wider range of eligible actions. the commission would be happy if this proposal were supported by parliament, since it is moving largely in the direction currently sought. finally, spain may decide to compensate farmers with state aid for income losses due to severe hail and frost. the spanish authorities are required to notify the plan to the commission. however, it is essential that:- first, they must prove that the losses due to the weather phenomenon reach the threshold of 20% or 30%;- second, that there is a direct link between the losses and the adverse weather conditions;- third, that there is no overcompensation of the damage caused. the spanish authorities can also make use of the new de minimis regulation for state aid. aid of up to eur 3000 per farmer may be granted for three years without notification to the commission, provided that, among other conditions, the ceiling applicable to spain is not exceeded.
i am very grateful to the commissioner for his words, which certainly show his sensitivity to the pressing problem, to the tragedy which the spanish countryside is facing at the moment. unfortunately, you have confirmed some of my suspicions about the spanish government's inactivity in this matter. i hope that this resolution and other measures which we are taking urgently in this parliament will also make our government aware of this. the losses caused by frost and drought in our country, spain, are already worth more than eur 2 billion, which represents a third of the aid it receives under the common agricultural policy. according to estimates by agricultural organisations, the consequences of the bad weather conditions experienced in january, february and march will last for several years, as the loss of trees is considerable and farmers will not be able to recover their production in the short term. the most affected crops were fruit, olive, horticulture, floriculture and herbaceous crops. livestock have also been affected by the loss of pastures and damage to water supplies. this is a pressing issue in my region, the balearic islands, where, at the moment, in menorca, there is a shortage of more than 1 500 tonnes of animal feed, a very serious situation for the animals. the lack of pastures, together with problems in the water pipes on farms, has also caused extraordinary costs for farmers throughout spain. the increase in the price of fuel is also aggravating the already extreme situation, and it would be good to take account of the calls for a european directive to curb this increase in the price of fuel, which is so costly for our farmers. the spanish regions most affected by these frosts and drought are valencia, murcia, andalusia - where 50 000 hectares of olive groves could disappear, with a major environmental catastrophe in the offing and a process of desertification that may soon appear - aragon, castilla-la mancha, catalonia, extremadura, the balearic islands - as i was saying - la rioja and its vineyards and galicia. the european union should put in place specific instruments to deal with extreme situations, such as the catastrophe that is happening in spain. i would be grateful if you would also mention the insurance fund. these are practical measures which must be put into effect as soon as possible. the solidarity fund was set up a few years ago, following the floods in central europe that we all know, and it has also been used for very specific actions - as you have mentioned - aid to spain following the prestige accident, a request for funds made by the popular party government at the time, or for the recovery of the vegetation in some areas affected by the fires. at this stage, community solidarity should also be expressed by releasing resources from the fund, at least to cover the costs incurred by many spanish farmers as a result of loss of production capacity, since these frosts have damaged many plantations, often irreversibly. as your draft resolution points out, frost and drought are harming the economy and living conditions of many areas this year. (the president interrupts the speaker) mr president, i will try to summarize. i would like to take advantage of the presence of the commissioner to urge the commission to be flexible, because, in short, the situation in spain is the result of a climate catastrophe, a circumstance for which this solidarity fund was created from the outset. apart from this fund, there are also simple measures to be implemented in this resolution. i hope that the spanish government will get down to business shortly and we can carry them out. my group has proposed this series of measures in this resolution and i hope that they will be adopted in this house.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his words of understanding in the face of a very serious problem in spain, which is reaching a dramatic point in my region, aragon, and in the pyrenees, and which may have repercussions for years to come. i would also say that this is partly because the previous government did not implement the drought plans, which were supposed to have been completed in 2003, and that we are now trying to make up for that shortfall. but in any case we must concentrate on the present measures for the future and it must also be said that at this moment the government has already contacted the commission services, although the evaluation has not yet been put forward in concrete terms, because the frosts are being evaluated, especially in the south; now the impact has been started to be evaluated in the north of spain, in particular in the whole northern half of spain. our government, as i said, has already contacted its services, and the speeches of both him and commissioner fischer boel in the past few days are an incentive precisely to complete that assessment, which was clearly going to take longer than expected, because of the problems mentioned with frost. the measures proposed by our socialist group are precisely the flexibility which the commission is considering, the advance payments, the mobilisation of grain reserves for livestock farming - which is also in a very critical situation - and the flexibility of the use of land and pastures, which had been withdrawn, also for livestock farming. we also had the proposal, and we hope the commission will be sensitive to it, that special attention should be paid to preventing the risk of fires which are going to increase in the coming months throughout the whole of northern spain, especially in galicia, and we also wanted to demand or propose, of course, that the solidarity fund, which is currently being adapted, should pay special attention to the problem of drought. finally, we ask the commission to set up a european drought observatory because we believe that this drought is not unique or temporary, but that, precisely because of the impact of the climate change that is taking place, it is going to become a structural phenomenon. we therefore ask the commission to coordinate all preventive and curative actions and all possible measures, from the environment to agriculture, so that this european drought observatory can prevent future problems.
mr president, mr commissioner, i think we are all aware of the same problem and we all know that this is not a party problem but a state problem for each of our countries, which is a european problem that has been expanding by addressing comprehensive policies for many years. i think it is very important to bear in mind that drought is a catastrophe, which also punishes the areas with the least chance of defending themselves against frost waves or lack of water. my colleagues have already spoken of the tragedy of the loss of over 2 billion euros. but i would also like to talk about the human factor. i do walk every weekend on my land and i know what it's like to see the black trees that will never grow back. i know what it is like in a population like the mediterranean, where an elderly farmer, in many cases about to retire from the land, and who will not have a successor, thinks, moreover, that the trees that are planted will take more than six years to grow. as a result of this catastrophe, much of the land will no longer be cultivated and will be a candidate for becoming pure desert. we must not forget, and this is an important factor, that in future impact studies we will have to take into account that olive groves and almond trees, for example, are essential instruments for preventing desertification and conserving the scant rainfall on our soil. we must not forget that cattle die of thirst. the other day a shepherd said to me, "there's 25 percent of my cattle that are going to the slaughterhouse this year. i can't keep so many cattle, i have no water. the cattle are thirsty". i want to say something else. the natura 2000 network, which europe is so concerned about, is in danger because the wetlands are depleted of water. those of us who live in that latitude of the mediterranean, of murcia, of valencia, of andalusia, we know perfectly well that you can no longer hear the birds in the morning, because they have gone to a place where they can drink. and even if the owners put water for them to drink, it's not enough, because they have no food or drink. this is so clear and europe will have to include it among the variables it will have to study. there are a number of measures proposed by the european union. i thank you, commissioner, for your speech on forestry aid, but let us bear in mind that summer has not yet begun. the mediterranean, with any storm, is going to put us on fire, because we are already in a critical situation; we are in the month of may and there has been no rain. i also welcome the idea of a pilot study, but i warn that this pilot study will have to be comprehensive. my government has not only acted late, but has taken steps that will make the situation worse. why would you do that? because, precisely four years ago, a national hydrological plan was presented to this commission which envisaged bringing water to these regions, which envisaged bringing water to the entire agricultural territory, and the european commission was delaying its acceptance, the issue was politicized and, in the end, the spanish state withdrew the water. and water is what would have allowed the wetlands to live. it would have created a level of hope, it would have allowed the trees that were planted to replace those that had been burned by frost or drought to grow back. we now have a bleak situation where a project has been held up for purely political reasons.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for their reaction to this statement by the commission. i should like to make a few brief remarks: first of all, the commission has repeatedly shown that it is flexible and that it makes use of all the possibilities it has, as for example in the case of the solidarity fund, with which we tried to respond to requests from various countries, and, as i said earlier, in spain with the case of prestige. i would like to say to mr lópez that, on the subject of insurance, which is very important, i have already mentioned in my initial statement that we have launched - in fact we have already started - this study. we do not yet have the results but in any case they will form part of the general debate on the response to and management of risks and crises in agriculture. in reply to mrs figueiredo, i would say that, as far as the income guarantee for farmers is concerned, this is contrary to the principle of a reformed community agricultural policy and most of the matters she mentioned fall within the competence of the member states. in any event, as i said in my initial statement, the national government has the possibility, without any further procedure, of paying eur 3 000 to farmers who have been harmed. mr schlyter's observation about the adaptation needed in the various countries to respond to climate change is absolutely correct: the european union has a duty to help the poorest countries in the world to adapt to the new climate, and to help the poorest countries in the world to adapt to the new climate. it should be noted that the mediterranean will face an even bigger problem from climate change, as the temperature increase over the last 100 years was 0.6°c worldwide, but in the mediterranean in particular there was an increase of about 0.9°c. we have had a much greater increase in temperature and therefore a much greater number of problems, including the problem of drought. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. the commission is studying this proposal, is considering the possibility of setting up such an observatory, but has not yet taken a decision on this. the commission is particularly concerned about the situation in spain. we have already taken a number of actions to help farmers and their families, which in turn will help the affected rural economies. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new measures, such as the introduction of a new system of quotas for the production of cereals. i have noted the various important comments made and will of course pass them on to my colleague who i am sure will take them very seriously.
mr president, i want to say to the commissioner that earlier, when he said that they had not received the letter from the spanish authorities, he left me a little bit in the dark, because that was the information i had. i have now confirmed that and the letter from the spanish authorities was sent last week, so it must be in the commission's mail if it has not yet arrived.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 12 may 2005.
i should like to begin by informing you that, in the context of interparliamentary relations, a knesset delegation headed by mrs naomi blumenthal, chairman of the delegation for relations with the european parliament, is visiting the european parliament. i'd like to welcome mrs blumenthal to the house. (applause) i hope, mrs blumenthal, that your meetings with the members of the european parliament have been fruitful and that they will help, through better mutual information, to highlight the conditions necessary for a just and lasting peace between all the parties involved in the conflict between the israeli and palestinian peoples.
i should like to point out that last week two of our members of parliament, who were part of a group of europeans, were detained at havana airport and refused entry to the country, where they were travelling on a tourist visa to attend the 'assembly for the promotion of civil society'. i should point out that the presidency had no information about this trip to cuba, that the group in question was not an official delegation of parliament and that the presidency was not informed afterwards by the members concerned. but that does not prevent me from sharing with you the concern and condemnation i share with the commission and the council over these events. (applause) i have discussed this with the cuban authorities, but i also feel i must inform them that the european parliament's sakharov prize winner, mr payá, has expressed a very critical opinion of the meeting in question, which he has described as a great fraud against the opposition. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i hope that the council will be able to take the initiative in this matter. i would stress that this does not add or remove anything from the condemnation of the cuban authorities' actions, but i think you should also have been aware of this fact and the opinion of a person to whom our institution has paid tribute.
mr president, i think it is our duty to express our condemnation of the terrorist car bomb attack in madrid this morning. i would like to express my total and unequivocal condemnation of this action, and i think that of all those present. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, mr. big ear. the applause with which your speech was received shows that this parliament is united - as it could not be otherwise - in condemning this attack which took place this morning and which fortunately did not result in any fatalities.
there are a number of amendments to the agenda, apart from those announced on 12 may. the amendments, which are included in the corrigendum circulated to them, are as follows:wednesday:the first debate of the afternoon will be on the motion of censure against the commission. the report by mr leinen is therefore brought forward and will be dealt with before the report by mrs malmström and the report by mr skinner is withdrawn from the agenda.
all right, mr swoboda, you are right. it will be placed on the agenda for the next part-session. the reason for its withdrawal, at the request of the rapporteur himself, was that it was not available, as you have pointed out, in all languages.
thank you very much, mr. moraes. the reasons are none other than the extreme complexity of working with 20 languages and the difficulties we sometimes have in getting the translation in time and form in all of them. i regret that we have to withdraw this report too. we shall deal with this in the next part-session. you will understand that there is no other reason than the complexity with which this parliament works.
i take note of your protest, mrs berès. we'll do our best to ensure that you don't have to protest any more.
as you know, the difficulty was due to a strike by airport workers. i suppose that strasbourg airport is not the only one where strikes can take place. so i guess you guys have nothing against the right to strike. (applause) the following amendments will also be made to the agenda for tomorrow, thursday 26 may: the report by mr costa on the protocol to the agreement on maritime transport between the european community and china in view of the accession of new countries is withdrawn from the agenda as parliament has not yet been consulted. and the report by mr leinen on the revision of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the european commission will be voted on after the reports voted on under rule 131. (parliament adopted the agenda as amended)
we shall now proceed to the first item, the motion of censure against the commission. i should like to inform you that this motion of censure, tabled on 12 may and announced in plenary, has been altered in the composition of the members who tabled it, because some new members have signed it and some members have withdrawn their signatures. the net balance, however, still exceeds the number of signatures required by the ep's rules of procedure to be able to table a motion of censure.
just a moment, please. for the moment, the presidency has the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
in accordance with rule 141 (4) of the rules of procedure, mr helmer may put a question to mr farage.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the political groups. in fact, all the groups, with the exception of the one which is the originator of this motion of censure, have rejected the terms of the motion and i thank them for that. i believe that they have helped us all in the european institutions to send a clear signal of our determination to distinguish between democracy and demagogy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to do this, i will repeat what i said in the letter i sent to president borrell on this subject. the letter was written in english, so i'll read it in english. i should add that the rules applied to members of the commission are stricter than those currently applied in most member states. nevertheless, the question has been raised of whether additional rules in this area would be helpful. some of you, like mr watson, have spoken about that possibility. i then told president borrell that it is perhaps useful to recall that the commission proposed an agreement to create an advisory group on standards in public life back in november 2000, which would have covered the european parliament, the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, as well as the commission. that proposal is still on the table and the commission is of course ready to discuss it with the other institutions. ladies and gentlemen, i want to make it clear that the commission is ready to work constructively with all of you in favour of transparency, good governance and accountability in our institutions. but what i cannot accept as president of the commission is this suspicion of the institution i have the honour of presiding over, this kind of anathema against it. i cannot accept that. we will work together for more transparency but we will not give in to demagogy. and i thank all the political groups for making this distinction between demagogy and democracy today and for thus contributing to our idea of europe. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session.
mr bonde, i am sorry that the switch through which i intended to withdraw your right to speak did not work, so that you were able to speak without the president's authorization. i'm sorry about that. written declarations (rule 142) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs jo leinen on the revision of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the european commission [2005/2076 ((aci)) ] (a6-0147/2005).
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr rapporteur, i would like to thank you for your report. ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour and a great pleasure for me to speak at this crucial moment of the revision of the framework agreement governing relations between the european parliament and the commission. since my inauguration as president, i have told you of my intention to establish a positive partnership and a lasting strategic partnership with parliament. at first, we experienced periods of institutional and political tension. the willingness to cooperate of myself, margot wallström and the commission as a whole might seem to the unwary observer to be merely a reflection of our intention to avoid further friction. this interpretation proved to be misleading and shortsighted. in reality, the will to cooperate which motivates us is the result of the recognition of the institutional reality of our union. according to the treaties, it is the parliament which is the depository of the will of the peoples of europe; it is the only directly elected institution, the legitimate representative of the citizens of the member states. no other supranational institution can count on such a high degree of democracy as the european union; no other multi-state structure has recognized such an important role for representatives directly elected by the citizens; no other body has an institution that today represents four hundred and fifty million citizens on a continent finally united. the union is not an abstract entity, far away, taking decisions behind closed doors, despite the tendencies and opinions of the people. on the contrary, it is based on the will of the people and on fully democratic institutions. that is the richness of our union. this is what makes it unique among existing structures in an increasingly globalised world. we are proud of this deeply democratic character which reflects the historical tradition of our member states. we must and we want to work in this direction. this is the fundamental reason why we thought it opportune and necessary to revise the framework agreement, the most important instrument governing our relations. this review took place in an atmosphere of excellent relations under the leadership of the political authorities of our two institutions. i would like to take this opportunity to thank president borrell, the chairmen of the political groups, the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs, mr leinen, and all those who have contributed to this important exercise in the history of our bilateral relations. the negotiations have enabled considerable progress to be made. we have agreed on a well-balanced text which meets the expectations of both parties and substantially improves cooperation between our institutions. mr leinen has already pointed out many aspects, but i would like to outline what we consider to be the five main results. firstly, we have enhanced the political dialogue between our institutions. together with vice-president wallström, i will attend on a regular basis the meetings of the conference of presidents, which will become the main forum for discussing political developments as well as the work and activities of parliament and the commission. furthermore, the timetable for the commission's legislative and work programme has been streamlined, and the process leading to the commission's legislative and work programme has become more political. in this context, margot wallström met the conference of committee chairs in february, and will do so again in july. secondly, we have strengthened openness and transparency. the commission commits itself to providing parliament with a full list of the expert groups assisting us in the exercise of our right of initiative. in addition, the chairmen of the relevant parliamentary committees may ask the commission to provide information on the activities and composition of these groups. when taken in conjunction with the existing rule on transparency relating to the comitology groups, this new provision is a very useful step. it will definitely contribute to enhancing transparency in the context of interinstitutional relations. thirdly, we have reinforced the provisions concerning political responsibility. the framework agreement enshrines the key principles of the openness, fairness and consistency of the entire hearing process. it ensures that the commissioners-designate disclose all relevant information in accordance with the duty of independence laid down in the treaty itself. in addition, we have agreed on the procedure to be followed should parliament express a lack of confidence in an individual commissioner. in such cases the president of the commission will give parliament's deliberations all the political attention they deserve. that is why we have agreed that i will either ask the individual commissioner to resign, or i will be prepared to explain before this house the decisions i have taken. this procedure safeguards the collegiality of the commission and the powers and prerogatives of its president. if new commissioners are appointed during the commission's term of office, i will ensure, together with the president of parliament, that they present themselves immediately to parliament. my fourth point concerns the improvement of our cooperation regarding the negotiation of international agreements and other aspects of our day-to-day work. we have made provision for the commission to keep members of parliament systematically informed on the conduct of negotiations on multilateral agreements. we have agreed on measures for consultation of the budgetary authority on the occasion of the announcement of new financial undertakings made at international donor conferences. we have deepened our cooperation in the field of community election observation missions. finally, we will act within the framework of the existing treaties and safeguard the competences of the other institutions, particularly the council. while the commission attaches great importance to our cooperation with parliament, one should not forget that the community method is based on a triangle. the commission is responsible for proposing legislative and budgetary proposals, and the two branches of the legislative and budgetary authority are responsible for deciding on these. as guardian of the treaties, the commission is fully committed to safeguarding this method and to paying all due attention to the balance between the institutions. with your permission, mr president, i would like to give the floor to vice-president wallström to comment on specific features of the leinen report. i sincerely hope that this house will support the revised framework agreement, thus opening a new dimension to our fruitful relationship. (applause) i would like to thank you.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the leinen report welcomes the revised framework agreement and approves it. i am very pleased by that and i hope that this house will do the same. this morning the commission authorised president barroso and myself to approve the text on behalf of the whole commission after the positive vote that i hope will take place tomorrow. following the speech by president barroso, i wish to respond to a few remarks made in mr leinen’s report. as regards implementing powers, the commission has already made use of its right of initiative to place the council and parliament on an equal footing as regards supervising comitology decisions and proceedings with regard to instruments adopted under the codecision procedure. to this effect, the commission presented a legislative proposal in 2002, which was amended in april last year, taking into account the large majority of amendments tabled by parliament. this is the only possible legal way to change the current situation. i wish to stress that our proposal is based on the existing treaties and could be adopted without waiting for the entry into force of the constitution. the commission continues to attach considerable importance to this proposal. we are aware that parliament supports it and we hope that the council will give it all the attention it deserves. for the time being, the commission will continue to implement the current rules on comitology in full respect of the role of parliament, as laid down in primary and secondary law and in our bilateral agreements. an internal assessment is currently taking place in the commission to ensure effective and coherent application of these rules. as regards providing information to members of parliament on the occasion of negotiations on international agreements, the solution found in the revised framework agreement is the only one possible due to the legal context. as you have certainly noticed, the commission has committed itself to keeping members of parliament systematically informed. members will be appropriately informed by the commission in full respect of their role as observers. finally, we have taken note of the request made as regards ensuring proper consultation of parliament on the integrated guidelines. the latest integrated guidelines, which will be endorsed by the european council in june, cover a period of three years. from our point of view, this implies that in 2006 and 2007 the next integrated guidelines will have to be updated rather than drastically modified. for the next guidelines, the commission will have to analyse not only contributions from the member states but also data and statistics which are normally available only in december or even in january. it is a complex process. nevertheless, in that context, the commission will pay attention to the need to allow parliament adequate time to deliver its position and will use its best endeavours to facilitate this process. in conclusion, i believe that our debate today paves the way for reinforcing constructive relations between parliament and the commission. as i said, the commission stands ready to approve and sign the framework agreement. it is not just a list of wishes and formal commitments: it is a concrete and detailed instrument to regulate our relations. it will be our common responsibility to translate it into concrete facts. i am sure that our two institutions will implement it carefully and loyally. i am deeply convinced that it will not be only our two institutions that will benefit from the new agreement: the union as such will benefit from increased cooperation between parliament and the commission. europe needs a strong european parliament exercising its powers. europe equally needs a strong, independent and credible commission, and through your vote tomorrow you will mark an important step in this direction. (applause)
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative and that it has been able to put things in their place. i think that mr leinen and vice-president wallström have made the features of this fourth framework agreement clear, and i shall not therefore go into the specific issues that they have expressed very well. but let me make a political point on behalf of my group. the history of this parliament is the history of an assembly that wants more power, an advisory assembly, a parliament elected by universal suffrage, then a parliament with certain powers in the field of the internal market, a parliament which has been a co-decision-maker since the maastricht treaty and, since then, a parliament which has been acquiring more and more prominence in legislation and political control, and that is extremely important. and i think that, with respect for the treaties, what this fourth framework agreement does is to go further along these lines. let me say that in this in-depth study the group of the european people's party has always thought that the commission is at the heart of the system, that it is the most innovative element in the institutional architecture and that it is therefore also the most decisive element in that architecture. in the debates that are now taking place, when we are asked why the european parliament does not have the legislative initiative, we say 'because it is the commission which has to define the community interest, because it is the commission which has to ensure that the treaties are complied with'. and so i am sure that this framework agreement is in line with the new european constitution, which will bring more democracy, more efficiency and more transparency, and in line with that it will achieve those aims. and i would urge the european commission, when we approve this agreement tomorrow - and we will approve it with the votes of the group of the european people's party - to take up the need to take initiatives in europe and to present them; if so, when it carries out its responsibilities it will always have the support of the group which i have the honour to represent today. thank you very much, congratulations on this job and go ahead. now we have to get to work.
mr president, the introduction of the charter of fundamental rights into the european constitution is a step forward, in the political dimension of the union, towards a more democratic and more social europe. this commitment to human rights must be put into practice from now on and new draft legislation must include the fundamental rights dimension. as the socialist coordinator of the subcommittee on human rights of this parliament, i am in favour of the creation of the fundamental rights agency. i understand the concern expressed by some colleagues, but i do not share their view at all; this is one of the most important agencies. the agency, through the functions proposed in the report, ensures us consistency in the promotion and protection of human rights. we therefore support the decision that this own-initiative report should be regarded as a legislative initiative of the european parliament itself. i think it is very important that this house should show its support and be heard on the fundamental rights initiative. this democratic platform we are about to give ourselves will benefit everyone: member states, international organisations, civil society and third countries. the call for the transversal nature of fundamental and human rights must also be considered, and above all, in the union's foreign policy. this decision will ultimately only result in a greater and better promotion and protection of human rights, inside and outside the european union.
i should like to begin by saying that the commission's proposal is a good and balanced one and that the rapporteur has done a great job, and i congratulate her on that. research has shown that the consumption of enriched foods in a varied diet can contribute significantly to nutrient intake. the important thing is that fortification is based on scientific criteria and that the agri-food industries operating in the european union are subject to common rules, and that is precisely the aim of this proposal: the harmonization of divergent national provisions on fortification within the limits of food safety, of course. and therefore, from the epp's point of view, we cannot agree to the inclusion of provisions which allow for stricter standards in the member states, unless they are justified by reasons of a proven risk to public health. nor do we in my group agree to the introduction of nutritional profiles, as the commission has not introduced them in the proposal. they are neither necessary nor appropriate in this proposal. the food supply in the european union is very varied and we cannot expect to eliminate obesity and ensure that europeans eat properly by means of standards and labelling. the solution is much more complex. food must be healthy, of course, and the consumer must be truthfully informed, but what really matters is the diet and lifestyle that each one chooses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. as regards the other substances in annex 3, i have to say that potential restrictions on these substances must be based solely on safety criteria and we therefore do not support the amendments which seek to introduce a positive list to regulate these substances. finally, i believe that manufacturers, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, need to be given sufficient time to adapt to the new provisions laid down in the regulation.
the european union's economy has been negatively affected by a number of events since 2000, when the lisbon council was held, which have meant that our growth has fallen far short of expectations and that we are still far from the objectives set out in lisbon. last february, the commission adopted a document entitled 'working together for growth and jobs: relaunching the lisbon strategy', which clearly stated that if europe wanted to continue to aspire to become the most dynamic and competitive economic area in the world by 2010, it had to reorient the lisbon strategy and focus it on two clear objectives: first, economic growth and second, employment. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment. these guidelines are based on the premise that economic growth can make a decisive contribution to job creation and that this is the best guarantee for social benefits. i would like to thank the more than 90 amendments which have been tabled, which have been translated into 14 commitments which were adopted almost unanimously by the committee on employment and social affairs and which i intend, for reasons of consistency and also out of respect for the members who signed them, to maintain today. i shall therefore reject the seven amendments tabled by the green group, which have already been discussed and are partly covered by the commitments accepted by the various groups in this parliament. it seems logical that if we have all, after a lot of hard work, agreed to a good report which could be adopted unanimously, we should retain that report today. i would like to thank in particular the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which has produced an excellent text from a gender perspective, which is almost entirely contained in the commitments and the amended guidelines. thank you very much for the work done. i believe that, ladies and gentlemen, we have succeeded in improving the commission's text during the course of the parliamentary procedure by extending it or introducing new questions. firstly, the reconciliation of family and working life: important aspects such as the equal distribution of family responsibilities within the couple, the commitment to flexible working models, in particular part-time work, paternity leave or facilities to care for children or other dependent persons, especially the elderly, in accordance with the objectives set out at the barcelona summit in 2002. secondly, the fight against occupational accidents. the report focuses on prevention and we recommend the establishment of a major agreement at european level to combat workplace accidents, which cause so many deaths throughout europe. thirdly, and very importantly, the phenomenon of immigration. we advocate the integration of legal immigration and the eradication of any kind of racist behaviour. fourthly, training and education: improvement of all types of education and emphasis on vocational training, which must no longer be the poor sister of university training, continuous learning, new technologies and the promotion of entrepreneurship, languages and exchange programmes between teachers and students. fifthly, the fight against the scourge of domestic violence: employment schemes for women victims of gender-based violence. sixthly, our commitment to social cohesion and inclusion and to combating discrimination at work, our commitment to comprehensive action and to taking all the necessary measures to ensure that labour markets are open to jobseekers, particularly women, young people, the elderly and people with disabilities. the text and the contributions of the committee on women's rights and gender equality also contain a whole range of measures to ensure de facto equality between men and women, not only in terms of access to jobs but also in other matters such as wages, professional promotion or harassment. seventh, active ageing and gradual and flexible retirement. we are committed to the participation of older people in employment and the voluntary prolongation of working life through measures that encourage work and make early retirement less attractive. finally, the report introduces other issues such as the environment, sustainable development and the social economy, and promotes the work of cooperatives and voluntary work, the role of regional and local authorities and, most importantly, the search for new sources of employment. in short, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the report we are debating today will enrich and improve the text originally proposed by the commission. i would therefore like to thank the members who have tabled amendments, not only for their interest but also for their willingness to support the agreement, because thanks to their work the guidelines we are finally going to adopt today will enable the european employment strategy to contribute more effectively to the achievement of the objectives set in lisbon, which, in terms of employment, are nothing other than the achievement of full employment of a higher quality by 2010.
mr president, i hope i shall not waste too much time on the measures contained in the two reports under consideration. i agree wholeheartedly with mr hökmark's remarks and take them to heart. what i would like to do, mr president, is to look at the diagnosis a little. europe is not doing well. mr goebbels did not want to add salt to the wound, he sweetened the panorama and mr almunia too. he says that the conditions are there for europe to do well, but the population knows that it is not doing well. there is an existential pessimism in all our populations today, which is very visible in the debates taking place these days in france and the netherlands on the referendum. we are growing less than the united states, we are creating less employment, we are less productive and we are far from the lisbon objectives. this existential pessimism has led our population to harbor not-so-useless fears. how are we going to meet the challenges of globalisation? what are we going to do to face the competition from the emerging countries? we are now discussing the problem of the textile sector and others will soon follow with competition from the eastern countries. what are we going to do to prevent the relocation of companies? how are we going to meet the challenge of immigration? what are we going to do to ensure the welfare state threatened by the ageing population? these fears are exacerbated by the weak response of the institutions. we have discussed - and continue to discuss - the stability and growth pact and, let us be clear, we have reached a state of mass non-compliance, a kind of amnesty and a repeal of the strictest rules to ensure budgetary stability. we are unable to set the financial perspectives and everything points to the fact that we want to allocate less money to the union, and with less money we do not make more europe, we make less europe. as my colleagues have pointed out, we are a long way from the reforms that need to be made. this parliament has given a good signal by bringing together the two reports we are debating today and by trying to eliminate discrepancies so that the message is clear. it is now up to the commission and the council to oblige the member states to comply with what is decided here. it is true that we shall discuss the national programmes when they are ready, but i hope that the commission will not be satisfied with being a mailbox or simply politely praising the national programmes, but will demand of the states the courage, determination and audacity which are needed to overcome the existential pessimism i have tried to define here.
ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and remove those signs. this is not the time or the place to express support through this procedure. (different reactions) i ask you to respect the rules of procedure, to sit down and remove these posters. if you do not remove them, i will order the parliament's security service to do so.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
the absolute disrespect with which they have followed mrs lulling's speech deserves to call you all to order. please be quiet. i would like to ask you to sit down and keep your composure because we are going to vote and there should be no members of parliament walking around in the halls. otherwise, we will not be able to know who votes and who does not vote.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 26 may 2005.
fifteen years ago, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to the leader of the burmese opposition, mrs aung san suu kyi. in a few days, she will celebrate her 60th birthday, that is, 15 years will have passed four times, but she is still detained. he is the only sakharov laureate who has not been able to receive his prize after more than 3,500 days of captivity. it's worth remembering, because you may have forgotten. you may have forgotten that in 1990 your party, the national league for democracy, won 80 per cent of the vote in the parliamentary elections, 80 per cent, but was unable to take power because of the military regime in burma. and despite the frequent and constant appeals from this parliament, despite the sanctions of the european union, despite the condemnation of various un agencies, the burmese regime continues its campaign of ethnic cleansing and systematic human rights abuse. human rights watch recently accused the regime of systematic human rights violations, torture and executions. i therefore think it is appropriate that we all, on behalf of this parliament, renew our call for the release of aung san suu kyi and her fellow political prisoners and express our strongest condemnation of the abuses of the burmese regime. (applause) i would like to thank
the final draft agenda for the june part-session, as drawn up by the conference of presidents on wednesday 2 june, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131. the socialist group has asked for the question to the council to be deleted. does anyone wish to explain the request of the socialist group?
that is to say, the question time to the council is not abolished, but its duration is reduced by half an hour.
i am not sure who mr poettering consulted, but it would be wise to rectify the situation. what is clear is that the proposal is from mr poettering and calls for the text of the agenda item to be amended. (the text of the item in question has been amended) however, it is not the text of the heading that is important, but the content of the debate.
as you know, the item on the agenda has not been deleted, but its duration has been reduced. you do not like it and i understand that, but the majority of the house voted in favour of it and we are not contradicting the rules of procedure, but applying them. (the agenda for the part-session is hereby approved, as is the agenda for the partsession of 22 and 23 june.)
we now come to the one-minute speaking time. let me point out that this is the first time we are going to deal with this item on the agenda, after you have received the letter from the presidency indicating how it intends to organise its development. there has not been a single member who has raised any objections to this, but i assume you have taken full note of what i said in that letter, and i will now proceed to apply what i anticipated, namely to give priority to members who have previously written to speak, indicating the subject on which they wished to speak. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
mr president, i rise, at the request of mr pittella, mr yáñez and mr madeira, to protest against the discrimination against asturias, murcia, melilla, ceuta, basilicata and the algarve in mr juncker's documents. the president-in-office of the council made a farsighted statement after the french referendum. he believes that politicians should make decisions understandable to the people and react. that is precisely what we are asking for these six european regions: to avoid injustice and marginalization in relation to others in the same circumstances. mr juncker, in your next document you must remove the precedent of marginalizing three million citizens. it is a question of dignity, of making european politics understandable, of making it equal and democratic, true to its roots and its ambitions. mr juncker, we are counting on you.
no, mr. mote, i did not receive it.
mr president, for several months now we have been receiving very worrying news from sudan, and in particular from darfur. we are facing a crisis with no clear solution, which some have described as genocide, and which has caused, in any case, thousands of deaths and hundreds of thousands of displaced persons, in a terrible picture of human rights violations and a tremendous humanitarian catastrophe. one of the latest news that has come to our attention concerns the arrest of two leaders of médecins sans frontières, the british foreman and the dutchman hoedt, on charges of espionage and the dissemination of false news. in particular, the allegedly fake report acknowledges more than 500 cases of rape of women in darfur. i think the report is important; the organisation doctors without borders has a proven track record and credibility and therefore all this is just another call for parliament to be mobilised also in defence of these two doctors without borders officials. several colleagues from the socialist group are asking, through me, for a letter from the president to the sudanese authorities expressing parliament's concern about the allegations and calling for the release of mr foreman and mr hoedt without charge.
i think it is good to apply the treaty to all its extremes. the rules in force determine where and how this parliament meets and it is our duty to comply with the rules in force, which say what they say about where the european parliament meets.
we have finished with this item on the agenda.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing certain guidelines for transeuropean energy networks and repealing decisions no 96/391/ec and no 1229/2003/ec (com (2003) 0742 c5-0064/2004 2003/0297 (cod)) (a6-0134/2005).
i would like to thank mrs laperrouze for her spirit of cooperation in the preparation of this report. the importance of this proposal lies in the fact that the development of interconnections is a necessary condition for the creation of a genuine internal market in the field of energy. in addition, interconnections will make it possible to cope with short-term shortages of electricity with greater certainty. as has been said, following the informal tripartite dialogue with the council and the commission, it was not possible to reach an agreement with parliament at first reading. we do not share the council's wish to eliminate projects of european interest and we support the rapporteur's call for the maintenance of these categories of projects. we also support the rapporteur's amendment amending the text on the european coordinator, maintaining the text approved by the committee on industry, research and energy, so that the coordinator is appointed for those projects which present difficulties and that parliament is consulted when appointing the coordinator, something which has already been approved in the case of the transeuropean transport networks. i would like to stress one very important amendment, which was tabled and approved by the committee on industry, research and energy. this is a new recital 2a which reflects the objective set at the barcelona european council for electricity interconnections between member states to reach 10% of installed generation capacity. finally, i can only applaud the commission proposal for a regulation on the financing of transeuropean transport and energy networks which is currently under discussion. this proposal provides for the first time for the co-financing of projects in the energy field and not just for preliminary studies. i hope that this will be taken into account when the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 is being drawn up, because if the budgetary allocation is reduced, this and all the european union programmes, such as rural development, life, the trans-european networks and the seventh framework programme for research, will be negatively affected.
i would like to thank mrs rothe and all the other rapporteurs who have contributed to this report for their willingness to seek out points of contact. it has been a pleasure, as always, to work with such constructive and reasonable colleagues. as mrs rothe has already explained, we have succeeded, after a long negotiation, in reaching a satisfactory agreement on this proposal for a directive. in my view, this commitment demonstrates the importance that all of us who have participated in the discussion agree on the issue of energy efficiency, as well as a substantial coincidence in the objectives of this piece of legislation. the security of supply and the achievement of the objectives we have set ourselves in relation to climate change, not to mention those deriving from the lisbon agenda, require us to adopt a multidimensional approach to energy policy. i think it is important to stress the balance between setting general european objectives, which are ambitious and realistic, and adapting them flexibly to the specific conditions of each member state. it is fair to acknowledge that some countries have made considerable efforts in the past, which have resulted in undeniable improvements in energy efficiency, achievements which must be recognised when deciding on the objectives to be met. it is also important to make clear that the ultimate aim of this directive is not exclusively to reduce consumption, since in countries where there is a considerable contribution from emission-free sources a more flexible approach, more suited to their economic growth needs, can be envisaged. madam president, i am pleased to reiterate my group's satisfaction at this further step towards the goal, which we all want, of combining security of supply, environmental protection and the competitiveness of the union's economy in the global market.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and all the other rapporteurs on their work and dedication in trying to complete this proposal for a directive and to try to reach a compromise with the council at first reading, which was not possible but was attempted. i will begin by recalling that at present some major problems with access to and use of spatial information in the member states remain, due, inter alia, to the fragmentation of data sets and sources, the lack of availability, the lack of harmonisation between data sets at different geographical levels and the duplication of data collection. i have no doubt, therefore, of the usefulness of this new tool, which is essential for the formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of environmental policies at all levels and of policies or activities which may have a direct or indirect impact on the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information systems are interoperable. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in this context, i would like to point out that the implementation of this directive, according to the european commission's own estimates, will cost about eur 5 million per member state, representing 1% of total spending on spatial information, while, with its implementation, an environmental benefit of more than eur 30 million per member state is expected, although it might be necessary for the directive to clearly set out the conditions of legibility within the framework of the existing community financial instruments for the costs involved in the planned actions. i also think it is appropriate to base this community infrastructure on the spatial data infrastructures established and managed by the member states, fully applying the principle of subsidiarity, but between those infrastructures, especially when member states, like mine, have several levels of public administration. finally, i would like to thank the understanding shown by both the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the council so that soil erosion can be analysed through this proposal, since we must not forget the importance of the progressive loss of soil throughout the european union at the moment, and at the same time express my concern about the specific role that the european environment agency should play in obtaining the necessary infrastructure for the correct implementation of the objectives we are pursuing, as i still have some doubts in this field. i share the congratulations of the house, and especially of the rapporteur, and i believe that this mechanism which we are going to adopt tomorrow will undoubtedly bring greater clarity to the mechanisms of the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the commission's proposal sets out, as has already been said, three major priorities: increasing the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sectors, improving the environment and land management, and improving the quality of life and promoting agricultural diversification. i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs schierhuber, because she has done a magnificent job, not only with the document we are going to vote on in the plenary tomorrow, but also because she has been able to produce a balanced text which fully reflects the commitments made in the committee on agriculture and rural development and, moreover, introduces very significant improvements in the commission's text which will help to achieve greater flexibility and more efficient and effective management of the programmes. among other improvements, i would like to mention the reduction in the minimum expenditure rates for each axis - which i consider to be positive - the possibility of combining national and/or regional programmes, the strengthening of equality between men and women and the call on the member states to facilitate access for women farmers to joint ownership of holdings. i would like to refer specifically to each of the axes, and i would like to highlight the increase in the aid for the establishment of young farmers, to which mrs schierhuber has just referred: these 55 000 euros in the form of a premium or interest rate subsidy and the flexibility to help them comply with the rules. i would also stress the extension of aid to medium-sized enterprises for marketing and processing, as well as any form of producer association. in this sense, i believe that they are ultimately best placed to add value to local products. i would like to refer to a matter of vital importance: the recovery of the criterion of depopulation within less-favoured areas which, whatever new definition the commission gives to these areas in the future, must prevail, because the abandonment of the rural environment by its population is an undeniable sign of its backwardness. as regards the financing of natura 2000, to which mrs schierhuber also referred, we are asking for an increase in the resources committed, since the commission has repeatedly rejected our proposal to create a financial instrument of its own for natura 2000. i would like to refer, finally, to the support for women's activities in rural areas under axis 3. i believe that this is a fundamental element to which we must devote all our efforts and give many guarantees so that women are fully integrated. i would also like to mention rural development measures, the bottom-up leader approach which this regulation is going to promote, because it is a factor of visibility for the citizens of the european union which, in these times, we cannot diminish. the french 'no' surprised me above all by showing that 70% of french farmers had voted against the draft european constitution. we are obliged to correct this situation and i think this report is a good element in that.
the rapporteur. - mr president, today is indeed an important day. this overall debate puts parliament once again at the political forefront of the fight against terrorism. we are a political chamber and this is a political debate on the european measures to be taken to defend human rights and defeat terrorism, and a debate which also has a desire to do democratic pedagogy. we are convinced that, in order to be effective in the fight against terrorism, europe must also have a common policy in this area, which goes beyond ever closer and more effective cooperation between the countries of the union - of which spain and france are good examples - and of this, of the union, with third countries; a policy which responds to the concerns of citizens and which can be promoted as a model throughout the world. defeating terrorism requires, first of all, trusting in the supremacy of democracy. defeating terrorism requires being willing to use all the instruments of the rule of law, all but one more than the rule of law provides us with. defeating terrorism requires fighting impunity and overturning the legitimacy of terrorist acts. defeating terrorism requires keeping alive in the memory and in the heart the memory of its victims. terrorism, ladies and gentlemen, is totalitarianism, it is fanaticism. terrorism is aimed at destroying free and pluralist societies. terrorism is incompatible with democracy. that is why i say that only a strong, vigorous, committed democracy will be able to defeat it. in this house and in this field we have been at the forefront on more than one occasion. two recommendations were adopted here on 6 september 2001, days before the twin towers were blown up: the arrest and surrender order and the common definition of the crime of terrorism, which were adopted by the council in december of that year thanks to the fact that we, the european parliament, had done our homework in time. it is true that some countries in the union have not yet transposed them into their legislation and others have not done so properly. that is why the report i am drawing up calls for an urgent assessment, but these two decisions are an example of how much the european citizens need a parliament which is able to take the lead in political decision-making. europe is a model of democracy and respect for human rights. that is our vocation, that is the meaning of our political union. that is why, to defend and promote democracy, to ensure respect for human rights, we fight terrorism, because we know that terrorism is the enemy of democracy. we therefore propose a european policy to combat terrorism in order to guarantee respect for individual and collective human rights, the right to life, freedom of expression, freedom of movement, freedom of thought or religion: a european policy to combat terrorism in order to make collective security compatible with individual freedom and dignity. i shall not bore you with the details of each of the recommendations in the report. they're all cutting-edge, but they're all possible. all that is required is political will, and all of them are necessary. from strengthening the role of the european coordinator for the fight against terrorism to pushing for the creation of the european prosecutor. i would like to emphasize the recommendation that the european recognition of victims of terrorism be institutionalized. politically relevant is also our commitment to promote the international definition of the crime of terrorism, which is increasingly necessary if we want, as kofi annan proposed in the madrid agenda, that these crimes be prosecuted and punished worldwide. finally, i would like to draw attention to a truly ambitious recommendation: the call on the member states to promote the indelibility of terrorist offences, thus expressing the international community's condemnation of them as one of the most serious and unacceptable crimes against humanity. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i know that it is a small step that we are taking today, but it is an important one. and i am proud to have helped to place the european parliament once again at the forefront of the fight against impunity for criminals and at the forefront of the defence of human rights. i thank all my colleagues from all the political groups for their contributions to this long debate. thanks to all of them, this house will be proposing proactive initiatives to the council that will change the dynamics of the past. the aim of this set of initiatives is to design a european policy capable of intervening to prevent terrorist attacks as far as possible. i am also proud as a socialist, as a basque, as a spaniard and as a european that this parliament is once again paying tribute to the memory of the victims of terrorism. the president of the government of spain, josé luis rodríguez zapatero, reaffirmed his commitment last saturday at a ceremony to award diplomas to the civil guard, saying that all the victims will always be remembered. for all democrats, that commitment, the effective remembrance of the victims, is what should make impossible a society like the one terrorists have pursued with their crimes. europe knows about totalitarianism and the importance of keeping the memory alive to prevent history from repeating itself. primo levi explained it very well in a great book. "to understand", levi said, "is impossible, but to know is necessary, and to remember is a duty".
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, including the creation of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies. at the same time, i would also like to express my gratitude to all the members who have worked and collaborated, sometimes by discrepancy and sometimes by coincidence, on this report on the prevention and response to terrorist attacks, and i would like to thank in particular my good friend rosa díez and my good friend antoine duquesne for their collaboration and contributions to this report. in these few minutes i want to be very brief and particularly to sum up the reasons and objectives which have led me to present this report to the european parliament today. what contribution have i wanted to make to this institution today with this report? it is simply that i have been unable to learn, my limited and modest experience of what the fight against a terrorist organisation has meant for more than 25 years in my country, spain, and in the basque country. i therefore think that the most important thing today is that we reconvert the traditional way of fighting terrorism in the european union, which is usually through a comprehensive list of measures, into what i believe should be a european political project. i am sure you will ask me what the difference is between a comprehensive list of measures and a political project. i will tell you that a political project is much more ambitious than a list of measures. a political project is always the fruit, the consequence, of a priority, of an accent and, above all, of a proper and correct mentality. and above all, a political project has the capacity to be summarized and understood simultaneously by a public opinion which understands the effort of a politician to convert this list of measures into a political project. let me say that the latest results in europe confirm that we need a limited number of political projects, because there cannot be an infinite number of political projects. there must be a few political projects, which are understood by european citizens and capable of dealing with the problems of europeans. and, in my view, one of them is undoubtedly terrorism. terrorism cannot be fought generically. we cannot think of the security forces and bodies as fighting terrorism in a generic way. you're fighting a type of terrorism, a specific organization. it is true that we must always fight with the same principles of freedom, respect for human rights, and what europe means, but in each case we must be able to find a specific, concrete political project, and we must always be able to define, determine and limit the organization that is being fought; among other things, as i said before, because it is the only way to stimulate the security forces and bodies so that, when they fight an organization, they have and put all the energy possible against it. what is the main ally of a terrorist organization? the community's role in the world is not limited to the united states, but is also limited to the european community. but it always has a social support, and one of the keys to combating the terrorist phenomenon is to know how to define and define the extent of the organization, what is the social fabric that supports it. i am sorry that we do not dare to call the organization that we europeans are facing, which is an islamist, radical organization, or one that claims to defend islam, or al qaeda, by its name. it is essential to call it by its name, because it is the only way to combat an organisation: to be able to say what we are facing, at this moment, in the european union. the main risk facing the european union is that of paralysis, of inaction, of having clear principles and values, of being substantially in agreement, but without making a common european political project to deal with this great issue which will affect the present and the future, and which seems to be a problem of others: that the americans had it on 11 september a few years ago, or that spain specifically had it, for certain reasons, on 11 march, but that is not what, in my opinion, we must do. finally, with a remembrance of the victims and saying that they must always be at the centre of our debate, the focus of our main attention, i would like to stress once again that, on this issue, we have all the moral strength with them to tackle this fundamental question of our future from the root.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall now deal with the many sensitive questions raised by the rapporteurs, whom i have listened to with great attention and whom i thank warmly for having raised matters of particular interest to the democratic life of europe. i believe that terrorism is truly the new dictatorship of the 21st century, a dictatorship that seeks to limit our freedoms and to strike at the basic rights of the people - the right to life and physical safety - and so i agree with your approach. the response is to be found in european action and strong international cooperation. this is not an emergency response: the european union must not be left in the lurch by the threat of terrorism. on this basis, just last friday in luxembourg, the council approved the action plan proposed by the commission, which contains some new and, in my view, effective proposals which will be implemented in the coming months and which are in addition to the measures already in progress. as mr oreja rightly said, these are elements of a single strategy, not a list of measures. it will be a political project on which parliament, the council and the commission can and must work together. i believe that one of the fundamental principles is that the fight against terrorism does not mean restricting people's freedom, on the contrary! it would be the greatest political mistake if the fundamental freedoms of citizens were to fall victim to terrorism, in the sense of being sacrificed or, in some cases, eliminated. the balance between prevention and repression on the one hand and the safeguarding of fundamental freedoms and rights on the other is therefore a direction on which all the reports are concentrating. i should now like to make a few brief comments on the reports presented. mr gonzález is certainly right when he stresses the importance of having an action plan available, which would in particular allow monitoring of the action taken by the member states to implement the measures decided upon. it would be a paradox indeed if, after having identified a strategy, there were no elements to monitor the implementation of the measures outlined in the strategy itself. the commission will therefore give priority to the action plan and its implementation. as many of you know, one of the key elements of the action plan approved in luxembourg on friday is the creation of a permanent monitoring instrument. the commission intends to provide a periodic report - i believe every six months - on the manner and quality of implementation of all the measures by the member states, which will of course be made public. for example, as regards certain points mentioned in the gonzález report, we are working on a communication on explosives, detonators and firearms and a second communication which will deal with radicalisation and the recruitment of terrorists. in addition to these measures, we will clearly and very quickly put forward some proposals on the problem of terrorist financing. i will return to this subject with particular reference to certain organizations which support and support terrorism. we will of course be working on the implementation of the so-called argus system, which many of you will be familiar with, which will allow - i am sure - the networking of all the existing early warning systems at the commission. the intention is to create a european network which will allow for an immediate exchange of information - in real time, i would say - between all the member states in the event of a terrorist attack. the report by mr oreja rightly emphasizes the importance of strengthening the exchange of information, cooperation with third countries and dialogue with civil society, which is a fundamental aspect, and aid and support for victims of terrorism, another aspect on which the commission will work intensively. i believe that this period of work, which parliament is inaugurating today with the reports presented, will have to take greater account of the victims of terrorism, as well as, of course, of the perpetrators of terrorist acts. i believe that the key to the success of this strategy is the principle of inclusiveness: all actors, public and private, in society must be able to participate in the democratic debate on terrorism. i believe that a proper information of the public, not threatening or dramatic, but clear, can be a reassuring answer. if we tell the citizens that there are concrete measures and that we are working on them together, i think they can be reassured that the great institutions of europe are working and will continue to work actively. as regards the protection of sensitive infrastructure, mr lambrinidis, i very much appreciated your report. one of the main terrorist threats is certainly to infrastructure, and it is in this area that cooperation between public institutions, all levels of government and the private sector is essential. the commission intends to submit to parliament a proposal for a european programme for the protection of sensitive infrastructure by the end of this year. one of the points of the programme will be to provide access to immediate and timely information, a kind of early warning, in the event of a terrorist attack. i would like to inform you that at this very moment an important seminar on this subject is taking place in brussels, with the participation of 150 representatives of the 25 member states. the meeting offered a positive answer: there is a broad consensus on the main elements of this future programme. we will be organising a second public european seminar in september, so that we can then present a real programme by the end of the year. in this context, we will provide funding of eur 1.5 million for studies on best practices for the exchange of information between member states on safety standards for sensitive infrastructure. it is clear that each member state will have to invest in the structures that exist within its territory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the so-called non-profit sector, the commission is working on a sort of european code of conduct to address the vulnerabilities of the sector in question, which on some occasions - as has been discovered - has acted in direct or indirect support of terrorist organisations. but to do that, we ask for a great deal of collaboration from the same nonprofit sector and civil society that, like us, is interested in eradicating all those who support the actions of terrorism in any way. we are also certainly thinking of a better exchange of information between national authorities on the financing of terrorism. we are considering this and a commission communication is being prepared. there is another aspect of great delicacy: the traceability of financial transactions. it is clear that, in the absence of the tools necessary to follow the path of financial transactions, we are lacking an effective tool to hit the financing of terrorism. we therefore intend to propose to parliament and the council, before the summer, a framework regulation on information and the tools for tracing financial transactions. there are also three reports by mr duquesne, which touch on a subject which is particularly dear to me: the relationship between counter-terrorism and the protection of personal data. i think that the amendments tabled to supplement and improve the swedish proposal should be supported. these amendments take account of the important conference held in poland a few days ago and underline the importance of the right of every person to the protection of personal data, even when we are faced with terrorism. this means finding a balance: the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of terrorism. i share mr duquesne's view on the role of europol and eurojust. it is important to give these bodies access to a wide range of information so that they can effectively carry out the exchange and coordination activities which are proper to europol, as is shown by the new mandate on the action of this body, received a few days ago by its new director. the principle of respect for fundamental rights is a subject which mr alvaro has raised and which i myself have raised on several occasions. the principle of safeguarding personal data must respond to real needs. personal data may not be retained unless such retention is for specific purposes and for a specific period of time, nor may access to such data be granted to any person other than the competent police and investigative authorities who are entitled to access it by law. we are preparing a measure in this respect on the basis of a legal basis which, in my opinion, is more correct than the existing one and which i explained on friday to the council of ministers for justice and home affairs, reserving the right to present a concrete text by the summer of this year. the last subject on which i would like to dwell briefly is bioterrorism. the rapporteur knows that the commission has some powers but not all. it may deal with food safety, trade in medicines, coordination between member states, civil protection and research funding. that's a lot. but it is up to the member states to take concrete measures for the operational prevention and possible reaction in the event of a terrorist attack. you know that following the 2005 bioterrorist attack with anthrax elements, a high-level committee on public health security was established with an effective cooperation programme for prevention and rapid response. the cooperation we have is working and we can tell you that there is a tool which, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, can provide early warning in the event of biological, chemical and radiological attack. many commission actions will improve the level of preparedness and prevention: we are developing simulation exercises in the event of possible bioterrorist attacks, two of which will take place later this year to concretely assess the level of prevention and rapid response. we are also developing guidelines for managing medical diagnoses in the event of agents spread by bioterrorists; we are preparing training courses together with europol and are supporting national emergency plans to ensure the availability of adequate vaccines and urgent assistance. as you know, my colleague mr kyprianou inaugurated just a week ago a major european centre for disease prevention and control. we will continue to encourage the member states on these issues. there are two final and concrete proposals i want to mention: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have also proposed that the solidarity fund should reimburse up to one billion euro for emergency health expenditure. secondly, and lastly, i would like to mention an important initiative which we have referred to as the framework programme. this is a programme, planned and approved for the next community budget, for security preparedness and prevention. it will, of course, include funds to be allocated in the event of any bioterrorist attacks. (applause) i would like to thank
the committee on foreign affairs and security has adopted a number of amendments. mr president, i would like to stress in this very brief speech the importance of the exchange of information in combating this type of terrorism. that is why mr duquesne's report is so right in emphasizing this very important point. we must dare to call the organization we are fighting by its name and we are, without a doubt, dealing with a number of fundamentalist groups which are not islam, but claim to defend islam. that's why i think information is so important, because it's an emerging phenomenon that we don't know much about, and in this kind of phenomenon, information is essential. we certainly do not know how they act and, above all, we do not know their sense of time. they're not like other organizations, who have a sense of time like we do. that's why it's so important that we're able to work on the knowledge of the social support of these organizations, knowing that they are capable of dying and sacrificing their lives in these attacks, which doesn't happen with other types of organizations. that is why it is so important that we know how to put the emphasis on the exchange of information between the national police forces themselves and not just with europol. the european project must be able to facilitate the exchange of information between national police forces, which are particularly active in this field. that is why the council, the commission and this parliament must create as many forums as possible for the exchange of information between all the police officers working on this delicate and difficult issue.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments. mr president, mr commissioner, at this moment, the fight against terrorism, its prevention and its eradication must be the single priority objective of the policies of this european union. we must never forget 11 march, when spain and europe were cowardly and cruelly attacked for representing the paradigm of the freedoms which we in this house always try to safeguard. on that day, 11 march, the history of spain, europe and, with it, the european union changed. from that moment on, it became necessary to recognize that terrorism is not a uniform, homogeneous or monolithic reality. on the contrary, this attack showed that there are many types of terrorism; therefore, the means to combat the different types of terrorism must not be generic, but specific and appropriate to each of them. from this point of view, the fight against al qaeda terrorism is not the same as the fight against eta or the ira terrorism. and it is certainly not fought by denying its existence, as some colleagues here in the european parliament do, by removing any mention of al qaeda from the anti-terrorism documents of this european parliament. if there's one lesson i've learned from history, it's that those who deny it are doomed to repeat it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fight against them must not be based exclusively on reaction mechanisms; it is clear that the best way to combat them is to prevent them. this prevention, and i agree with mr mayor oreja, must be based on the bilateral and rapid exchange of information between the specialised services of the member states, on facilitating the systematic transmission of information to europol and eurojust and on the creation of registers, such as the european criminal records register, which will facilitate the work of investigations. no difficulty should prevent the effective protection of freedom and the right to life. the defense of life and liberty must always be our priority in this fight.
the rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, mr president, is very concerned about the debate which we are having and i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, in particular my colleagues mr mayor oreja and mrs díez gonzález, on their reports. the report by mrs díez gonzález in particular is very ambitious and aims to raise the level of protection of citizens against terrorism to a very high level. i think one of the achievements of the modern state has been to protect citizens against any kind of crime. we are now faced with a very specialised type of crime, terrorism, and this requires not only action by the institutions of the state but also cooperation at international level. as far as we are concerned, i believe that cooperation within the framework of the european institutions is fundamental and, in this respect, i would like to recall the importance for the citizens of europe of the early ratification of the european constitution, since it establishes a framework for the fight against terrorism which begins with the recognition, as a fundamental right, of the right to life and to the physical integrity of persons and continues with the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice. it is worth reading these texts - it seems that some citizens of the union are not yet familiar with them. the solidarity clause of article i-43 of the european constitution states that 'the union and the member states shall act jointly in a spirit of solidarity if a member state is the object of a terrorist attack or the victim of a natural or man-made disaster. 'it further states that 'the union shall mobilise all the instruments at its disposal, including the military means made available to it by the member states, in order to:a) - prevent the terrorist threat in the territory of the member states, - protect democratic institutions and the civilian population from possible terrorist attacks, - assist a member state in its territory, at the request of its political authorities, in the event of a terrorist attack, - assist a member state in its territory, at the request of its political authorities, in the event of a natural or man-made disaster. 'the european constitution also provides for a mechanism of cooperation between the member states. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, my first word is to congratulate the six rapporteurs who have undertaken a very difficult task in the fight against terrorism, to produce a common reflection to combat terrorism, from the point of view of legality and respect for human rights and data protection. i would like to congratulate rosa díez, jaime mayor, stavros lambrinidis, antoine duquesne, mario borghezio and alexander nuno alvaro, with their names and surnames. my speech is about a proven, modest but firmly established commitment to the fight against terror and to the shelter and protection of victims. mr president, the victims must be heard, they must be listened to, they must be respected and they must be protected, and all this must be done by means of means. with terror there are no concessions. terrorist crimes never expire and must be prosecuted anywhere in the world. but, mr president, in my commitment to the victims, i have tabled an amendment to mr borghezio's report, no 4, which concerns the financing of terrorism. in my country there is the so-called 'revolutionary tax' demanded by the terrorist organisation eta. it is the biggest form of extortion known to the european union; it is a form of extortion that consists of writing to basque businessmen and asking them for funding for their criminal and criminal activities. this funding is estimated to be in the region of eur 12 to 15 million per year. if that gets shorted out and made impossible, the terrorist gang could not survive. there are three types of reactions to this phenomenon: those who pay, those who leave the country and those who do not pay and it costs them very much. the national court has established cases and prosecutions for these crimes. that is why i am looking to mrs roure this morning and asking her to take what i am saying into consideration, because the support of the second majority group in the house and the other groups in the house is very important. i ask and beg you to accept and support this amendment, which i would be prepared to amend by using other terms that are more acceptable, such as 'a form of extortion that the terrorist organisation eta calls a revolutionary tax', for example, but i am speaking of solidarity with the basque and spanish businessmen who suffer and are suffering from this form of extortion. finally, mr president, and with that i conclude, i turn to mr gijs de vries: the threat persists. and mr de vries, who knows that the threat persists, must have the means not only to make strategic reports but also to have an office which can effectively combat terror. (applause from the right)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i am not sure whether i am speaking on behalf of the alde group or on my own behalf i think i am speaking on my own behalf. in any case, it is clear that this is an important debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rapporteur has been congratulated on these reports and we should also congratulate him on his ability to understand the need to accept a large number of amendments which have enriched them and have given a nuance, in some cases very important, to some of the statements contained in the original texts. in any case, today it will be clear that this parliament is committed to a fight against terrorism which is absolutely forceful in terms of police, in terms of judicial efficiency, but at the same time tremendously respectful of human rights, of data protection, of the guarantees without which this fight against terrorism is meaningless, a fight which takes into account the victims of terrorism, takes them into account with respect. it obviously does not put the political decision in their hands, it is not their place, but it is their logical place to have a voice and to be directly heard. we cannot say that terrorism is born as if it came directly from mars. there are situations that cause people to be willing to kill, and that does not absolve the individuals who do so of responsibility, but it does force us, as policy makers, to examine why, what specific situations are behind those behaviors. the balance between this hard-fought struggle, this examination of reality as it is, respect for human rights, all of this is a real balance which, in these reports, if it is converted from being reports into political action, can produce important results. there are a few amendments which are still valid, and some of them have been tabled by myself on behalf of my group - in this case yes - of which i would like to highlight two. firstly, we talk about terrorism with multiple roots and therefore to mention islam, even if only to say "look at you, islam, deep down, we are fine with it, but we are worried about islamic terrorists" is to mix terrorism and islam. we therefore propose that all reference to islam be deleted from this document, because otherwise we could make a list of who the potential terrorists are. we haven't, and it would be very dangerous because we'd always leave someone out. so let us not mix terrorism and islam, if only to insert a clause saying 'islam is good at heart', which is what these reports seem to be trying to do if this amendment is not passed. secondly, we propose that all reference to the international criminal court be deleted. we believe that this is just the beginning of its development, and to complicate its operation by a debate on the powers of the european union in the field of counter-terrorism only undermines its function. so let us leave that debate out of the debate today, which has its own channel, and stick to what works today. finally, i would like to say to mr gijs de vries, whom we are honoured to have among us, that the important thing is to turn all this into political action and concrete measures.
mr president, i would simply say that we accept the amendment by baroness ludford and will therefore not be tabled any further oral amendments. we think that amendment is perfect and we support it.
the agenda now includes the debate on the report by mr reimer böge, on behalf of the temporary committee on the political challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged union (2007-2013), on the political challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged union (2007-2013) [2004/2209 (ini) ] (a6-0153/2005) although it may not seem so, this is a subject of enormous importance for the future of the union. (applause) i suppose that the abnormally low attendance of members is due to some event, probably because the political groups are holding some kind of meeting, because the presidency must show its surprise at this situation in which there seems to be a rare unanimity in all the groups for the attendance at this plenary session to be so low in such an important debate. i can only regret it and wonder why. if it were only in one group that these overt absences occurred, there would perhaps be some reason to explain it, but being in all the groups at once, one would have to ask why. in any case, we cannot adjourn the session. mr barroso, mr minister, we must move on. the media will no doubt echo what you tell us.
president of the council. mr president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to address parliament this afternoon, before you vote on the resolution on the future financial perspective. the luxembourg presidency, in compliance with the budgetary powers conferred on parliament by the treaty, attaches high priority to maintaining an open and unreserved dialogue with your parliament in this area. this is one of the most important issues facing the union today. it is also taking place at a time when the european union cannot afford to fail. i would also like to express our appreciation for the work of the temporary committee on the political challenges and budgetary means of the union, which you, mr president, chaired. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. your contribution to this complex and politically sensitive debate, if not more, is important in two ways. firstly, parliament has shown realism and has presented a coherent approach. secondly, with this report and resolution you are setting the broad parameters for the negotiations which will follow the council negotiations and which, in the end, will be just as decisive for the financial perspectives as the negotiations which will be held next week at the european council. the presidency has also been able to point out that this first round of negotiations in the council is only the first round and that the agreement of your parliament is also required to obtain the financial perspective. what is the state of the negotiations in the council? let me tell you how we see the situation in the council and how we intend to prepare for the debate on this issue, particularly at the european council next week. first of all, i would like to stress that the presidency remains committed to reaching agreement at the european council next week. nothing should distract us from the important objective of providing the union with the resources it needs to fulfil the tasks it will have to face in the coming years. the conclusion of an agreement in june is the best way to send a positive signal and the only way to determine the scale of these resources early enough to adopt and implement the various legislative instruments and programmes in due time. the union must now show more than ever that it retains its full capacity to take decisions, that it is still capable of reaching compromises in a matter as decisive for its proper functioning as the financial perspective and, therefore, budgetary policy for the coming years. you are aware of the negotiating framework method which was successfully used in the last negotiations under the german presidency and which led to an agreement in berlin. this framework has allowed us to gradually narrow down the range of possible solutions and to reach a final agreement. the latest version of this negotiating framework was adopted at the end of last week and will be discussed by the foreign ministers at the conclave to be held on sunday evening. at the same time, the president of the european council participates in bilateral meetings with his counterparts, where they discuss each other's difficulties and try to lay the foundations for a compromise acceptable to all. i would like to highlight some aspects of this latest version of the negotiating framework. i shall also make comments on certain points in your report and in the draft resolution on the financial perspective. firstly, we made it clear, even before the general affairs council in april, that a number of cuts would be necessary - unfortunately for some and inevitably for others - in all areas to balance very different views on the final overall level of expenditure. this is not entirely contrary to the thinking of your committee. the latest version of the negotiating framework includes, for the first time, figures by heading. overall, the total of €870 billion reached, which corresponds to about 1.06 per cent of the gross national income of the european union, is close to the figures discussed. although this total is lower than the commission's initial proposal, the figures for each heading nevertheless represent on average increases of between 5% and 18% in annual growth compared to 2006. so no one can doubt our determination to continue to provide the resources needed to advance the union's policies. it is also true that the very low growth of national budgets, which must not be overlooked, inevitably has repercussions on the european budget. secondly, the council debates were mainly concerned with heading 1b, i.e. cohesion policy. contrary to what some people claim, this item was not particularly affected by the reductions. we have not made this heading the adjustment variable of a minimalist budget package. in reality, the presidency shares the view of parliament: cohesion policy is an expression of the union's internal solidarity. the presidency is therefore doing everything in its power to limit the reductions in this area as far as possible. overall, expenditure under this heading in the latest version of the negotiating framework represents 0.37 per cent of the gross national income of the european union. the presidency has, however, proposed a number of changes to the mechanisms for allocating funds for cohesion policy. it did so following the debates which generally - and i must say with some difficulty - showed the desire to give priority to financing the less prosperous regions and member states. the presidency has therefore adopted a solidarity approach, ensuring that resources are directed to those who need them most. this has meant that a slightly higher percentage of cohesion funds has had to be devoted to the convergence objective and the ceiling rates have had to be adjusted so that the funds go where they are needed most. i know that some countries and regions are not happy with this approach. the presidency will continue to listen to them. however, while adjustments are always possible - and we are working on them day after day - our constraints are such that the room for manoeuvre is rather limited. thirdly, the presidency is aware that the european council in march set ambitious targets for the relaunch of the lisbon strategy. these objectives must be reflected in additional financial means. we are all committed to the objectives of competitiveness and employment. we all want to develop research in the union further. we also know that the union must accompany the social and economic reforms which we are obliged to undertake. employment remains a high priority for all of us, as does education and vocational training. the presidency has reduced the amounts proposed by the commission, but the rate of growth compared with the current period is still considerable: + 8% real growth per annum. there is hardly any national budget - i know of none - that shows such an extra effort. the same applies to heading 3a, i.e. the objective of freedom, justice and security. this objective is also a priority because it responds to the concerns of citizens in this area. in our latest proposal, it benefits from an annual real increase of 18% compared to 2006, which is equivalent to an increase over seven years of almost 200%. the growth rates for external relations, particularly in order to achieve the overall partnership objective to which the union is striving, are still 5% in real terms and we have not retained, as you have, the budgeting of the edf. fourthly, the latest version of the negotiating framework provides a little more detail on the question of resources. there is no doubt that the success of the european council will depend on an agreement on both expenditure and resources. in its search for a solution, the presidency has taken as its starting point the conclusions of fontainebleau in 1984 - i will not say, as mr juncker did, fontainebluff. as far as resources are concerned, the negotiations will only succeed if a satisfactory solution is found to the compensation in favour of the united kingdom. in this connection, the presidency proposes that the amount of the correction for this country should be equal in 2007 to its nominal average over the seven-year period immediately preceding the last enlargement and then decreased from the following year. i think this proposal is fair, because we are all committed to the solidarity effort that enlargement of our union represents. the presidency also proposed that, in line with the fontainebleau conclusions, which also address the question of budgetary imbalances for other countries, specific measures be introduced for three countries, namely germany, the netherlands and sweden, for the period 2007-13. these measures would consist of a reduction in the rate of call on the vat resource, which the presidency has proposed more generally to be frozen at 0.3%. it is clear that before a resource solution can be found, a number of other details - not always minor details and often sensitive ones - still need to be worked out. nevertheless, the presidency is convinced that this approach is the most realistic basis for a final agreement, provided that everyone has the will to achieve it and is animated by sufficient political will. these are the main points of the latest proposal which has been circulated to the member states and which will be discussed in luxembourg on sunday. that is the basis of an agreement in the council. it will then be for the council and parliament to translate it into financial perspectives enshrined in an interinstitutional agreement. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating the temporary committee, its chairman and its rapporteur on what i consider to be truly remarkable work. the precision and quality of the analysis and the high level of the discussions within the temporary committee are a demonstration of the will of this parliament to make a positive contribution to this very important debate on the financial perspective. i think that this commitment of parliament is crucial because it is the political project of europe that is at stake. it is now a matter of translating our political will into financial commitments and i am pleased to note the determination and firmness of parliament in assessing the means needed for the union to achieve its project. i am also pleased to note that the resolution which this parliament is now discussing shows a broad convergence of views between us, between the commission and parliament. the fact that the commission and parliament are on the same page does not surprise me. we have chosen the same method: first of all, we define our political project and our priority actions, then we determine the means and the budgetary instrument in the light of these choices. i still think that this is the most appropriate method of convincing the european taxpayers of the good use of their resources. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i share the conviction of parliament that we must all work in the spirit of the interinstitutional agreement which frames the financial perspective. the agreement on the financial perspective, as the president's representative has just reminded us, is not an agreement between the member states within the european council. it is an agreement between the three institutions which share responsibility and each of which has a determining role in its elaboration. it is a partnership between the council, the parliament and the commission which is reflected in this interinstitutional agreement. i consider the adoption of parliament's position today and the trilogue of the institutions next wednesday as key steps towards the implementation of an agreement. and i think it is very important that we reach an agreement in the near future. even if there are some differences, our respective reflections have led both institutions to conclusions which are in reality very close. i acknowledge that the resolution which your parliament is considering today is complete and balanced. i have very much enjoyed discussing these questions with the temporary committee and i have also appreciated the frequent contacts i have had, even informally, with the president of parliament. i am pleased to note that these conclusions have received a very broad consensus in the political and parliamentary groups. i do not propose to react in detail. i would simply like to stress at this stage a major political point. we obviously share a common vision of the union and its financial resources as a means of action. it will be crucial for us, the institutions, to maintain our alliance on the project until the end of the negotiation. given the divergence of positions between member states, the negotiations which have been initiated will be very difficult, even if we have great confidence in the capacity of the luxembourg presidency. however, i still believe that it is necessary and possible, despite the major obstacles, to conclude an agreement in the coming weeks. it is necessary because the absence of an agreement would delay the implementation of policies and deprive citizens of the policies they are expecting. of course, the political atmosphere today is not necessarily conducive. uncertainty often undermines the will to compromise. moreover, an agreement would demonstrate to our fellow citizens that despite the serious difficulties we are facing today, europe is capable of acting, that it has a plan for the future and that it is capable of implementing it. in other words, we must avoid prolonging a debate which highlights the elements which could divide us, and concentrate on those which bring us closer together. and we must respond by action to those who think that europe could stop, fall into paralysis. in a way which may seem paradoxical, i believe that the difficult circumstances we are experiencing are also an opportunity to reaffirm collectively our ambition for europe. that is why i say that it is even more necessary now to find a compromise in the coming weeks. i am therefore convinced that this agreement is within our reach and that we must seize this opportunity to put europe back on track. mr president, while parliament is agreeing its position the negotiations in council continue. today we have a meeting of ecofin. on sunday we have another ministerial conclave, in which i will be taking part. i would like to say a few words on the latest proposals from the luxembourg presidency. i would like to begin by thanking the presidency for its energy and for the determination it has shown and brought to this matter. it is fair to say that many dismissed any chance that this negotiation could make much progress, but the presidency has proved them wrong. in this respect, i would like to stress the very good cooperation between the commission and the presidency in the handling of this matter since january. for me the crucial test must remain the ability of the proposals to deliver the political goals we have set. we cannot fall into the trap of once again letting the gap widen between our political promises and the reality that follows. in some areas the presidency has found a way forward. on cohesion policy, for example, substantial savings are proposed, but the overall balance remains a balance between the compelling imperative to commit new resources in the wake of enlargement and the need to respect the fact that the mission of cohesion policy is to work across the whole union. on own resources, the presidency has shown its well-known pragmatism. the proposal made includes the freezing and phased reduction of the uk rebate, and some compensation for germany, the netherlands and sweden, to take account of their excessive budgetary burdens. for the sake of transparency and fairness, let me tell you that this is certainly not the ideal solution. as you know, the commission had proposed a different solution. however, the conditions needed to make it viable have not been met and the solution envisaged by the presidency has the merit of preventing this issue from spiralling into a real crisis in the coming years. that is where we are. i do not believe that we can afford to hold the union's policies to ransom while we chase the illusion of a better arrangement. we must accept that the presidency has found a balanced solution. in other areas, however, i must say that, compared with the commission's proposals, those put forward by the presidency are disappointing, and sometimes truly problematic. if you look at the newer areas of policy supporting competitiveness for growth and employment, making freedom security and justice more concrete, giving a new impetus to our external policies these proposals will require the union to make very real sacrifices. this is not about numbers on the page. it is about concrete actions which the union has agreed to take forward and which it will be enabled to realise. to take the area of competitiveness for growth first, heading 1a, we all know that this is mainly about investing in knowledge. this effort will be diluted if not backed up by investment. of course, in the context of the overall picture, the increase proposed by the presidency some 37% on average compared to 2006 is not insignificant. it would still allow investment in our future. but let's be honest with ourselves: it wouldn't allow us to meet all of the goals that we have set. turning to other new policy areas, again the increase for freedom, security and justice looks generous on paper, with a proposal to double the 2006 levels. however, judging against the policy needs set out in the aid action plan approved by the european council, the shortfall suddenly looks to be a real problem. hard choices would have to be made if this proposal were accepted. as for our external policies, there is a strong consensus that europe needs to be a more effective and vigorous actor on the world stage. but under these proposals we would have to scale down our ambitions drastically. do we cut back on pre-accession, on stabilisation in the balkans, on neighbourhood policy, on humanitarian aid? at a time when ministers are making a fresh commitment to increase official development aid by eur 20 billion a year by 2010, frankly i find that troubling. so, in those areas we run the risk of failing to fully deliver on our promises and previous commitments. i take comfort in the position of parliament as laid down in the draft resolution today. i do not believe that it is impossible to maintain the balance proposed by the commission, to respect the legacy of the foundation policies while giving a new reality to new policies. i look forward to working closely with parliament in the coming days and weeks with this goal in mind. i know you will agree with me that if we succeed in reaching an agreement in the european council next week and in concluding an interinstitutional agreement, we must face up to the consequences. it may prove impossible to reach an agreement without trimming our ambitions. let me be clear, once again. we want a consensus for the next european council. we need it. but at the same time we must say no to a cut-price agreement that will mean a cut-down europe and a cut-down project for the europe of ambition and solidarity that we want. we all need to keep that in mind at a time when we are so keen to try to find a new impetus for europe. as we approach the final stages of the financial perspective negotiations, as we prepare for an agreement that would show how committed we are to making europe work, strong and positive collaboration between the european parliament and the commission is needed now more than ever. together we can make a difference for the benefit of the citizens of europe. (applause from the left)
thank you very much, mr barroso. it is good news to know that you are comfortable with the proposal that the temporary committee has drawn up. thank you for your positive assessment.
mr president, the european commission's proposal was a commitment to enlargement and, at the same time, to the aspirations of turning our economy into a pole of growth and development, of bridging the technological gap with the united states, of increasing our presence in the world and of facing the new challenges posed by terrorism and organised crime. this is despite the fact that the cost sharing of enlargement that it raises is neither fair nor equitable, as was shown during the debate in parliament, and that is why we have tabled an amendment, which i hope will receive the majority support of the house tomorrow. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the commission proposals. the council would do well to heed some of the signals that the european parliament is clearly sending it, particularly in cohesion policy. we want sufficient funds, we want the surplus funds from the convergence objective to be reused by the countries with the greatest absorption capacity, and i hope that tomorrow we will adopt an amendment calling for political compensation for those countries and regions which suffer a sharp loss of funds. the good words of mr schmit, for which we are grateful, must be translated into a clear commitment to cohesion. and to be realistic, i think we can all agree that the union is lacking political leadership at the moment, but what will be tested on the 17th is the ability of the heads of state and government to assume their responsibilities. and it would be deeply irresponsible of the council not to reach an agreement at this very moment.
mr president, as is the custom in this house, i will begin by congratulating mr böge on the work done in his important report on the political challenges and budgetary means of the union 2007-13. first, i will make some general remarks. the financial perspectives to which the report refers are undoubtedly in a difficult political, economic and social context in several member states, and i can only regret that this context has - allow me to use the expression - poisoned the debate in committee from the outset, with the debate focusing on trying to reach an agreement on percentages between the commission and the council. sometimes there has even been a riff-raff of percentages, net payers, net balances. i think that is a false debate, from an economic point of view, because it is one-sided; and from a political point of view it is even more one-sided, because the european union is not, by any means, its budget. the citizens are asking us for more than just an accounting exercise, because the union should be a political project, a vision for its citizens and a future among 25 countries, which means more than being reduced to taxpayers. i regret that the present political situation has not allowed parliament to be more bold, and this is the first time that parliament has been below the commission's proposal in its proposal. the socialist group will nevertheless support the böge report, since most of its content reflects its fundamental demands. first, it welcomes cohesion policy as an indispensable tool for promoting territorial, economic and social cohesion and reducing disparities between the regions of the union, 'the policy of solidarity par excellence', considering a good funding of 0.41% of gni a sine qua non. secondly, it places the political and social agenda at the top of the agenda and recognises that adequate funding is crucial and therefore calls for an increase of 200 million to be able to achieve its objectives. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. and finally, it reflects the european parliament's longstanding demand that the european development fund be integrated into the general budget. the socialist group supports this balanced and realistic resolution, because we are aware that only a majority position of unity makes parliament strong in the face of the council. the ball is in the council's court, which must also take note of the fact that the report, for the socialist group, is a minimum minorum to ensure the adequacy of resources for european policies between the twenty-five.
mr president, i would like to acknowledge mr böge's tenacity in carrying out this difficult task of balancing the scales or of financial engineering, the first time in the history of the financial perspective that the european parliament has voluntarily limited its direct ambitions below the commission's already minimal proposal. only the opportunity to facilitate a quick, fair and just settlement, which would clear up at this time doubts and confusion, could justify us. we want to interpret the commission's conciliatory words in this way and encourage the council presidency to achieve this. however, i am not reassured that parliament is settling into a minimalist trend that started in the last agenda 2000 and has not helped to give european citizens more confidence. i am referring to the risk of a renationalizing budgetary retreat and of conditioning the union's objectives on the basis of insufficient resources. we regret the pressure that has been put on the initial proposal by six member states, some of which had more than understandable reasons for the situation, but others are guilty of not explaining sufficiently the added value of each euro spent and the strong economic and commercial return they get from the development of the union. we regret that the 1% has replaced ideas with percentages, but it has also re-launched the debate on the urgency of a thorough review of the own resources system. what we do not agree with is that the rapporteur applies it exclusively to the co-financing of the cap, which is still trying to digest the latest reform from brussels; let us not throw our farmers with the irrigation water. we welcome the effort to maintain the quota for cohesion policy and to strengthen the union's social, growth and employment policies, as well as its justice and external affairs policies. we ask the rapporteur to extend the logical mechanism of facing out, which already recognises the regions affected by the amplifying effect of enlargement, and to apply it to the cohesion fund. the european parliament has already defended it in agenda 2000 and we cannot understand why the council presidency should not apply it, while parliament does not apply it. we also ask the rapporteur to accept amendment no 1 which combats the discrimination which would be involved in applying the policy of competitiveness and excellence in an exclusive way. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i would like to join in the congratulations to our rapporteur, mr böge, because he has been able to send a very clear, very clear message to the commission and the council about what this parliament wants. how much money are we prepared to devote to the european project? what financial effort are we prepared to devote to the process of european construction at a time when europe is in difficulty, at a crossroads? the rapporteur proposes less than the commission, but more than the council has proposed to us this afternoon. the president-in-office of the council says that he has to strike balances. i stress what mr elles has said: balances yes, but the council must remember that less money does not make more europe, it makes less europe at a time when we need to affirm this project. the referenda held in recent days, and many of the speeches have reminded us of the need to focus on the real needs of the citizens, and they want us to grow faster. to do that we must create more jobs, we must be more productive, we must spend more money on investment, research and development, and in short, we must put the lisbon reforms into effect. and that takes money. our citizens have also reminded us that they believe in a social model where both cohesion and efficiency in the marketplace are paramount. without a policy to correct territorial imbalances, the economic project represented by the european union will probably be able to survive, but the political project at stake here will not survive. we must convince our citizens that together we can meet the challenges of the future: the challenges of globalisation, competition from emerging countries, the relocation of companies and the ageing of the population. and that requires more money. as a further and final point, i am firmly opposed to the introduction of cofinancing of the agricultural policy, because that would also break the rules of social cohesion on which the model we believe in is based.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr gaubert on his excellent work in dealing with such a complex and at the same time so necessary report. complex because there are many factors involved in a problem that has unfortunately become a daily occurrence today - illegal immigration - and its fight through legal mechanisms that respond to the legitimate hopes and aspirations of those seeking a better future in our territory. it is necessary because, once and for all, the union - and especially this parliament - must give a clear answer, an unambiguous demonstration of our common commitment to resolving a problem which has been knocking at our door for too long without obtaining an adequate answer. the promotion of legal migration routes, the implementation of measures to promote the proper integration of immigrants and, above all, the fight against illegal migration flows are the three axes on which, in my view, the union's strategy must be based. firstly, legal immigration must be promoted through responsible policies, and i stress the word responsibility, since the most recent experience, at least in my country, clearly shows the opposite: orderly immigration in an open society, with stable and flexible mechanisms that provide lasting solutions. we are talking about people, your honours, not numbers. secondly, we must work for the full integration of immigrants, because only in this way will we avoid the uprooting, marginalisation and conflicts which are increasingly frequent and widespread in our societies. integration is indeed a two-way process - 'the host society and the immigrant society', but it must in any case be an integral and fundamental part of our common policy. finally, we must fight against irregular immigration, against the underground and the mafias, against human suffering in the final analysis, because, as i said before, we cannot forget that we are talking about people. i therefore call for a common political commitment to banish all demagogic talk and all unilateral and irresponsible measures which, with an eye only to the easy vote and without measuring the consequences, could jeopardize the progress we have made and are making in this area.
mr matsakis, what you have just said is not a question of order, but a statement.
the agenda includes the debate on the statements by the council and the commission - preparation of the european council, including the future of the european union following the referendums on the european constitution (brussels, 16 and 17 june 2005).
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, why do we complain so much that politics has entered european life? we all know that politics is not a long, calm river, sometimes it can also be a raging current. i would like to say, first of all, that this process must continue, because we are all equal, we all have the right to express ourselves, and our predecessors, the swiss, even voted in favour of european union in a referendum, in which they decided to join schengen. secondly, a 'no' is as good as a 'yes', but a 'no' is not a veto, and those who have said 'no' have to say what they want to do. do you want to stay with us or do you want to leave? they have to say it, not us. since i am the first speaker to come from a country that has said "yes" by referendum, i will be allowed to give some advice. firstly, in spain we had a referendum on the european constitution and i want to pay tribute to all the opposition parties, who spoke about europe, not about our domestic problems. secondly, we must talk about europe and we must talk well. as mr zapatero said in the campaign, speaking well of europe is a weapon of mass construction. we have clearly welcomed the marshall plan that has come to us from europe and have tried to generate hope. because there's a lot of talk about problems and complaints here, but our job is to generate hope and solutions to people's problems, not to complain. i have to say that we will certainly have to think about what needs to be done, but let us not stop. if we stop, the "no" union will say they've won and that's a risk we can't take. i would like to conclude by asking the president-in-office of the council to add two things to his list: we must defend the euro and we must work actively in the doha round, where globalisation is to be discussed this year. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i find today's speech neither pleasant nor easy. i have given a lot of thought to what my group's position should be and what the position of this parliament should be on the ratification process. i believe that europe has always advanced on the basis of consensus. i note today - and it has been said here - that despite the fact that ten member states have ratified it, despite the fact that a large number of europeans have said yes to the constitution, there is no such consensus to go ahead. i note that the debate is not on the text of the constitution, but on the political context. so i think the worst thing we can do is not see reality with our own eyes and not pay attention to what people ask us. people are asking us to listen, to debate, to have a dialogue. i believe, today as yesterday - perhaps more strongly than yesterday - that the constitution is necessary for europe; and since i believe it is necessary and must be saved, the most logical thing - the position of my group, the epp-ed - is that the ratification process should be postponed. i think that if the heads of state and government take a unanimous decision in this respect, we will all have a little time - perhaps a year until the end of the austrian presidency - to think about what we are doing with the constitution, how we are explaining these things to the people, how we are getting back in touch with it. it is in these moments, in these difficult, ungrateful moments, that we appreciate the courage of people and when we do not have to "suck our finger and see where the wind blows", but do what we think is most useful to put into practice what we think is necessary. i think the constitution is necessary. and since this is a difficult situation, since this is a painful decision, my group, which has given it its due consideration, believes that this option of postponement is, at the moment, the best.
i would like to welcome mr voronin, president of the republic of moldova, and the delegation accompanying him. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, as you know, when romania becomes part of the european union, moldova will be a direct neighbour of our union. that is why, mr president, the union is actively working to deepen relations with moldova, as i have said before. the action plan between the european union and moldova, which we have recently launched, is a good instrument for making progress in these relations. mr president, i hope you will have a very pleasant visit to our institution.
the next item is the voting period. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
mr bonde, i've cut you off, i've cut off your speaker, because this is not the time to make statements. if you have a point of order, tell me what article you invoke.
do you invoke rule 100 on the interpretation of the rules of procedure? just a moment, please.
mr bonde, you have no opportunity to intervene under rule 100. it does not refer to any question of order.
well, mr. bonde, tell me what your problem is with article 100.
thank you, mr bonde. i take it that this has nothing to do with a motion for a resolution. please sit down. i do not want to be a parliamentary filibuster. what you are raising has nothing to do with a question of order.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the referendums in the two countries which have just said 'no' to the constitutional treaty, a more democratic plan seems necessary. on the ground that we occupy at the moment, it is time to prove it. first of all, i would ask that the council be asked, as proposed in paragraph 4 of the resolution, to identify the positions of the national delegations in the legislative process, instead of keeping them secret, including from parliament's rapporteur, with the bizarre motivation of protecting the efficiency of the institution's decisionmaking process. secondly, the text aims to ensure that the council's debates are public when it acts as legislator, which would allow us to know what it thinks of the european parliament's amendments. for example, i note that the european parliament's opinion on the framework decision on racism, which dates from 2002, i.e. three years ago, has not yet been examined - at any rate, it was not examined last week - by the justice council. thirdly, as stated in paragraphs five and six of this resolution, the text is intended to involve the european parliament in the conclusion of international agreements by the european union, since these agreements are not even submitted to national parliaments. finally, i would remind you that this parliament has already asked, at the previous part-session, to be associated, in the framework of the codecision procedure, with the creation of the future fundamental rights agency. finally, we cannot but deplore the catastrophic financial outlook for this chapter. as rapporteur and on behalf of the committee i have the honour of chairing, i ask the president of parliament to submit these requests to the next european council and to the future british presidency. when the new commission was appointed, we asked for a review of the transparency regulations. we were told it was too soon. i have to say that, in view of the international elections, it may be too late. someone's got to take responsibility for this. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, mr cavada. their demands will be duly addressed by the presidency.
ladies and gentlemen, there are two reports left: the gaubert report and the bowis report. it's a quarter to three. if you are all right with it, and only if you are all right with it, we could postpone the vote on these two reports until tomorrow. (parliament agreed to the proposal)
i welcome the position adopted by the european parliament on the financial perspective and now i only hope that the council will take its responsibility and reach an agreement on the 17th. but several members abstained on a matter of principle, and that is that we do not accept - even hypothetically - the reopening of the 2002 agreement on the common agricultural policy. we want it to be closed until 2013, as agreed.
mr president, like my colleagues, i believe that if the united nations did not exist, it would have to be invented, as is the case with the european union. this is a fact. and it is also true that, as with the european union, the united nations must be revised. in the specific case of the united nations, it is clear that a profound and immediate reform is urgently needed, mainly because the member states are currently subjecting it to a double constraint, first of a budgetary nature, and secondly of a political nature. the reports of the high-level panel and of the secretary-general himself, kofi annan, are, in my view - and i agree with mr laschet on this - an excellent starting point for analysis and debate, and i therefore urge the commission and the council to take them sufficiently into account. it is important to remember the "no to war" mobilizations and, above all, those that led us to doubt the importance of a war in iraq. i believe that at the present time, when world military spending has already reached the level of one trillion dollars a year and, at the same time, the states do not give money for the millennium goals, this rethinking is more necessary than ever.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr laschet, for the work he has done. it is difficult to achieve a broad consensus between the different groups and delegations on a complex issue such as the reform of the united nations. this reform covers many important issues. i shall confine myself to three aspects. firstly, the need for effective multilateralism to deal with the problems of the international community. no single country or group of countries can say it all, but a multilateral approach is needed, and multilateralism requires representative and effective institutions. hence the importance and need for reform of the united nations. secondly, the reform of the united nations security council, an essential body for the maintenance of international peace and security. we must increase its representativeness and improve its functioning, but i do not think that the best solution is the so-called 'a model', i.e. to increase the number of permanent members, a concept which i think is somewhat anachronistic. an essential objective, clearly stated in mr laschet's report, is that the european union as such should be present in the united nations security council. this objective is fully consistent with the idea of a common foreign and security policy, and will be even more so if the constitutional treaty enters into force. of course, if the model that will finally flourish in new york is that of new permanent members, in my view the new seat should be for the european union. i am surprised that when there is so much talk about a common foreign and security policy or a future foreign minister in the council of the union, surprisingly, this issue is not discussed; the presence of the european union in the united nations security council is not discussed in the council, and today the representative of the council, who i do not know if he is listening to me, does not seem to have mentioned this issue either. in my view, given the importance of the reform of the united nations, and in particular of its security council, it must be adopted on the basis of the widest possible consensus. a reform of this kind should not succeed with only a two-thirds majority, because it is not reasonable. a greater consensus is needed. thirdly, i welcome the importance which the report attaches to the fight against terrorism and, in this connection, i would stress not only resolution 1373 but also the importance of the care of the victims of terrorism. resolution 1566 has already taken a first step in this direction. we must continue to improve and deepen this line.
president of the council. the honourable member is aware that the european council of 16 and 17 december 2004, when it considered that turkey met the copenhagen political criteria sufficiently to open accession negotiations, at the same time made it clear that the commission should continue to verify whether the political reform process was being fully and effectively implemented. the commission is called upon to address all the concerns it has identified in its regular report and recommendation, including, of course, freedom of expression and respect for minorities, and to report regularly to the council. at the eu-turkey association council on 26 april, the presidency stressed on behalf of the union the absolute need for turkey to complete without delay the outstanding reforms and to work vigorously towards the full and effective implementation of these reforms, which very clearly imply respect for all rights, including freedom of expression.
president of the council. i believe that respect for the rights of minorities, including the right to speak their own language, must be one of the elements used to measure respect for democratic criteria, which all member states, both those that are now member states and those that are going to be member states, must respect. i do not know if we can use the word you used "criminals" , but in any case, minority rights are an essential aspect of our approach, also with regard to turkey.
mr president-in-office of the council, the motto of the european union is 'unity in diversity', and you know very well that without respect for this linguistic and cultural diversity, this europe could not be built. you have responded positively to us by saying that the council is concerned and is following up the issue of turkey and the right of children to be educated in their mother tongue, but i ask you whether you are going to do more than simply follow up this issue. i think the council of ministers should do something about turkey now - 'send a warning to turkey' - so that this matter does not simply wait for a next report from the commission on whether or not the community acquis is being complied with. mr president-in-office of the council, what does the council intend to do about this?
president of the council. the honourable members are requested to refer to the reply which the council has already given to an oral question on the same subject. the council reminds the honourable member that the determination of the volumes of admission of migrant workers is a matter for each member state of the union. as regards the regularization process implemented by the spanish government and referred to in the question, the council discussed it informally at its meeting in january 2005. it would remind the honourable member of the conclusions on a mutual information system which it adopted at its meeting of 14 april 2005. these conclusions call on the commission to present, before the end of may this year - which it has not done - an initiative to create a system of mutual information between the authorities of the member states responsible for immigration and asylum policies. the council considered that such a system could contribute to increasing mutual trust and lead to a better coordinated approach to the immigration and asylum policies of the member states. i therefore invite you to put the question to the commission to find out why it did not make the proposal it was asked for, in january to be precise.
deputy author. mr president-in-office of the council, thank you very much for your comments. i am not making a statement, but a clear and direct question: in your opinion, do the decisions taken in spain on illegal immigration contribute negatively or positively to the future creation of a common european immigration policy?
president of the council. i would first like to point out that spain has taken a decision which it is entitled to take. we all know, however, that we want to move towards a more coordinated policy, or even a common policy on this matter, which does not yet exist. it is also clear that such decisions are best coordinated with the partners. i understand at the same time that this decision was taken in a particular context and that the objective thus pursued is precisely to integrate as much as possible and as well as possible the people already on spanish territory. moreover, it is likely that their integration into spanish society will prevent them from going to other member states. in this sense, i think it cannot be said that this decision was taken at the expense of other member states. it is also clear that we all need to realise that better coordination on immigration at european level is the only solution.
i think we have already discussed these spanish-type issues at length - as you have very well said - and they have been very successful. i would therefore like to thank him for his patience and for the continuity of his policy and offer him the spanish coordination.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by othmar karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1466/97 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies (com ((2005) 0154 - c6-0119/2005 - 2005/0064 ((syn)) (a6-0168/2005) and the report by othmar karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1467/97 on speeding up and clarifying the excessive deficit procedure (com ((2005) 0155 - c6-0120/2005 - 2005/0061 (cns)) (a6-0158/2005)
mr president, commissioner, we have already spoken many times about the stability pact, and i will try to summarize some of what has been said here. my spokesman, mr radwan, said, and i agree with him, that we are in retreat. the pact i liked was the 1996 pact, signed by the cdu minister theo waigel, which was defended by his predecessor, commissioner solbes. we haven't been able to keep it. the council has noted widespread non-compliance in europe and could have done two things: either demand compliance or, euphemistically, make the pact more flexible, and that is exactly what it has done. you are here to tell us what changes need to be made to the rules of procedure to make this pact fully effective. what could parliament do? what could my group do? we could have tabled amendments trying to resurrect the old covenant, as it stood. we have not done so because, following ortega's advice, we do not like the futile effort which only leads to melancholy. we have tabled amendments, which mr karas has explained very well. what we're trying to do is keep the disaster from getting any bigger. we are trying to ensure that you apply it correctly, with reliable statistics, we are trying to reduce the margin of arbitrariness, filling in the vague legal concepts, and we are trying, in short, to ensure that the withdrawal is not a total disaster. it has been said here that europe is not doing well, and indeed it is. but if it does not go well, it is not as a result of the stability pact, but as a result of not having complied with that pact. the stability pact, budgetary austerity, in quasi-theological terms, is a virtue, a necessary, though not sufficient, condition for growth. we also need, as mrs kauppi has reminded you, those reforms which we have been unable to carry out. parliament is helping him; it is helping him to reduce the margin of discretion of governments. it's up to you to keep this from getting out of hand.
mr president, let me ask the house the following question: would we be living in the current crisis situation in the european union if there were a european union with economic growth and strong job creation, if the big european countries were offering us a different profile, if they were driving the whole of the european union forward and contributing to balancing the world economy? surely the answer would be no. there would be resources, there would be money to finance enlargement, for the challenges of the european union. but there is no economic growth, because there is no trust. and there is no trust because we are lacking firmness in implementing, in exercising policies of trust, policies of stability. that is the contribution of the stability pact. your retirement, mr. almunia, comes at a difficult time. now the next threat in the crisis of the european union is the euro. the reform of the stability pact must therefore be successful. mr karas has done an excellent job of trying to remedy a wrong, erroneous proposal of the stability pact in its basic contents. mr almunia told us this evening that the commission is satisfied with parliament's position on improving the quality of statistics and debt monitoring. i would also like to hear from mr almunia that he agrees with the limitation of the relevant factors, which are really decisive so that the stability pact is not a box that fits everything, in which, in short, we skip the rule. what we have achieved is that each country does what it understands to promote a policy of budgetary stability which, with a lack of definition of relevant factors, would be practically impossible. the example is the european union of fifteen: the countries which have done their homework in budgetary matters are the ones which have economic growth and employment today. we must not look for models outside, we must stay in the european union to look for those countries and implement those policies among us.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mr karas again for his reports and all the members who have taken part in the debate for their contributions. of all the contributions, i would like to mention two, particularly those which have highlighted the success of the euro, of the single currency, and which it is worth remembering in these days when some statements seem to call into question the obvious, that the euro has brought stability, solvency, historically low prices, that the euro brings us historically low interest rates, that the euro strengthens us. we must remember this because, immediately afterwards, we must say that to maintain that strong single currency - which strengthens us as europeans in economic terms and beyond economic considerations - requires a fiscal framework and a stability and growth pact such as those defined in the treaty and developed by the regulations which this parliament is discussing today in their partial amendments. i would also like to join those of you who have reacted to the pessimism of some analyses. it is true that there are economic difficulties, that there are problems of growth and employment, that citizens feel that their needs are often not sufficiently met. but it is also true that when we look at it from the outside, or when we look objectively at the situation of the european economies, there are also elements of optimism. the day before yesterday, at the eurogroup meeting, the director of the international monetary fund's europe department informed us of the general outlines of the report he has just published, which can be consulted on the international monetary fund's website on the economy of the euro area. he began by saying that he was surprised by excessive pessimism, because, in analysing the european economy, he had observed that it had the conditions to make a full recovery. there is a confidence problem in some of the major european economies and one of the objectives of the stability pact reform is undoubtedly to give confidence and credibility to a necessary framework of fiscal and budgetary discipline. to this end, the reform is balanced, introducing some elements of flexibility but also some more demanding elements - notably in the preventive part, where it regulates regulation (ec) no 1466/97. it is a reform that requires more transparency and has therefore contributed to the adoption of important decisions to improve the quality of our statistics. in addition, yesterday, on a proposal from the commission, the ecofin council adopted some very important conclusions which reflect the improvements being made to the european statistical system and, in particular, to tax statistics. the restoration of trust also requires a clear explanation. in many of your explanations, ladies and gentlemen, i have recognized what the pact is and what the reform of the pact entails. in other cases i have acknowledged ignorance or lack of knowledge or, sometimes, simply an interpretation which does not correspond to reality: the reform of the covenant cannot be accused of repeating literally what the treaty says, because to go against the treaty is what will damage confidence. to support the treaty, to repeat what the treaty says about the reference value for the government deficit, the reference value for the government debt and all the factors to be taken into account - the treaty sets out in article 143 the relevant factors to be taken into account when analysing the situation of excessive deficit in a country - to comply faithfully with the treaty in all its dimensions, to read over with serenity and sincerity the treaty adopted to launch economic and monetary union, is one of the elements that can most help to restore confidence in the euro area and in the whole of economic and monetary union. in any case, i am convinced that this reform we are discussing today - and which i hope will come into force at the end of this month - respects the rules, introduces clarity, economic rationality, demands equal treatment and will be applied, as was demonstrated yesterday, with rigor. and what it requires of all of us is a full and complete explanation of what it means, and in doing so we will help the european citizens and the european project.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr dominique vlasto, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'strengthening european competitiveness: the impact of industrial change on policy and the role of smes' (a6-0148/2005)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr commissioner, various assessments indicate that uncertainty, especially in relation to employment and social protection, has been a major reason for many citizens to reject the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands. after many years in which the words 'industrial policy' had disappeared, they are now reappearing, and we should all be glad of this, because it is by promoting a strong industrial sector that citizens will be able to find more stable and better paid jobs. this is how we help to build confidence in the european project. the commission communication proposes an integrated approach, including the simplification and harmonisation of legislation to strengthen the internal market, and stresses the importance of r & d and the need to encourage its transfer to enterprises. but that harmonization should also include a fiscal aspect. the european industrial fabric is made up of diverse sectors, from aerospace to textiles, which need specific responses. the sectoral analyses will serve to facilitate further cooperation between industry, the commission and the member states which may create new opportunities. small and medium-sized enterprises account for 90% of european industry and require special attention in terms of their access to finance and the transfer of research. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. to this end, a dialogue involving the administration and the social and economic actors and taking into account the available research and innovation instruments will have to be developed. and to accompany the restructuring, an adjustment fund will of course be essential. i would like to end by congratulating the commission on having proposed the appropriate instruments to strengthen european competitiveness and on having done so in the framework of the lisbon strategy. but if we want citizens to see the union's policies as a means to progress and not as a threat, we must maintain a balance between the three pillars of this strategy, namely economic, social and environmental.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report (a4-0104/2005) by mr adamou, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the restriction of the marketing and use of certain polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in diluent oils and tyres (twenty-seventh amendment to council directive 76/769/eec) (com (2004) 0098 - c5-0081/2004 - 2004/0036cod) (c4-0104/2005)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to comment on the questions put by mr blokland and mr krahmer, both of whom are dealing with the same problem, namely whether the requirements for aircraft tyres are guaranteed to be met by 2010. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i wouldn't have recommended that to any tire manufacturer. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. we have a formal declaration from european tyre manufacturers that aircraft tyres will also meet the technical requirements of this directive by the year 2010. that is the answer to mr krahmer, whose concerns about the safety of aircraft i fully share. but i think that in terms of the composition of tyres, the tyre manufacturers are a little bit more competent than the pilots.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the regulation on the community patent and related legislation by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights (b6-0242/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, the main outstanding problems which have so far prevented the incorporation of the council’s common political approach of march 2003 into the final text of the community patent regulation concerned the time limit for finding translations of the claims of the patents and the legal effect of these. efforts have been made in the council and at bilateral level to settle these points. despite substantial agreement between the member states on this issue under the irish presidency, none of the solutions discussed has won unanimous support. the commission has already invested a lot of time and effort in work on this file. while i am prepared to make one more attempt to reach agreement on the community patent in the future, i will only do so when i believe the conditions to be favourable. however, alongside the commission’s work on this issue, we also need all supporters of the community patent to speak out strongly in favour of this initiative. as to the collective management of copyright, my services are currently carrying out a thorough impact assessment in preparation for a possible community initiative. the overall aim of such an initiative will be to ensure the more transparent and efficient cross-border management of collective rights in europe. this should provide commercial users, broadcasters, webcasters or other online service providers with better access to information about the scope of the repertoire licence and the applicable terms and tariffs. a more transparent management of copyright across the european union should help stimulate more use being made of copyright content which fosters the development of new attractive services and the technology that is used to provide such services. the initiative will take due account of a consultation of stakeholders and of the recommendations of the report written by a former mep, mrs echerer, on collective management of copyright and related rights. there is no blockage in the legislative process in this area. as far as enhanced cooperation is concerned, any support from the commission for such an initiative in the field of industrial and intellectual property would depend on its impact on the economy and society and its added value compared to the existing situation. moreover, legal issues, such as those arising from the extent of existing community competence, would have to be taken into account.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the question from the committee on legal affairs covers two aspects. the first, i would say, is the linguistic one, which has been alluded to by commissioner mccreevy, and i would point out that things may not be as simplified as in my colleague mr lehne's presentation. apart from the technical proficiency of a language which has a near monopoly, other languages were already recognised in the european patent convention, and other languages are also recognised by the office for harmonization in the internal market of the european union, based in alicante. i have the impression that there may be a limit, a certain level, below which certain languages may have a certain recognition, depending on the use of patents in those languages and the functioning of national patent offices. i therefore believe that the matter must be clarified and that, as mr lehne has said, the commission could certainly help to find a formula which would allow us to get out of this impasse. as regards the second aspect, concerning collective management companies, there is a fear that a commission proposal, for example, in the radical sense of the bolkestein directive, for total liberalization, will lead to a deprivation of the possibility of effective protection of intellectual property rights. at the moment we have a number of national systems for the protection of intellectual property and mere liberalisation could lead to the loss of protection for authors, i.e. the replacement of a system of a number of national markets, relatively protected by their national management units, by a system in which there is no protection at all, could put authors, creators and inventors in a difficult situation. i would therefore simply ask the commission, when making this proposal, not to fall into the error of the bolkestein proposal, which, as we know, has today been one of the elements used even to oppose the adoption of the european constitution in the referendum procedures, but to seek a system which makes it possible to link the need for harmonization in this field with the protection of a basic service, such as the protection of intellectual property and of artistic and literary creation.
this item is closed.
member of the commission. mr president, let me express the commission's any my personal satisfaction with the method and the quality of the work done to tackle the challenge of developing adequate management measures for our mediterranean fisheries. it could not be taken for granted that the deadlock on this matter during the term of the previous european parliament could be overcome. the proactive attitude of this parliament, along with a general awareness of the state of fisheries resources and marine ecosystems in the mediterranean, has contributed to the achievement of a sound compromise. members of the european parliament have shown their ability to listen to the spectrum of views that have been voiced on this important question. parliament's opinion, which i hope will be adopted today, is a good starting point for the work to be carried out in the council and i hope that the european institutions will be able to deliver the new regulation shortly, in the interests of our fishermen and of fisheries and the marine environment of the mediterranean. the commission is very pleased with the close cooperation of the rapporteur, mrs fraga estévez, and the members of the committee on fisheries during our work on this important proposal. i am happy to be able to inform you that we can accept 22 of the 34 amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries and other members. nine amendments of the 22 accepted, and in particular amendments 2, 10, 11, 13, 20, 21, 22, 25 and 26 were part of a compromise package agreed with the rapporteur and approved by the committee on fisheries. the compromise is not perfect in all details. nonetheless a delicate balance of quite different views has been achieved without compromising the effectiveness of the proposal. let me turn to the other amendments tabled to the report before us. the commission can also accept amendments 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 23 and 24, which introduce new elements that either reinforce our proposal or make the timing of the introduction of certain measures more gradual. the commission cannot, however, accept amendments 1, 3, 4, 19, and 27 to 34. in particular, the concept of responsibility of nationals of member states is already enshrined in the basic regulation for the common fisheries policy and should be maintained here. amendments 1, 3 and 4 cannot therefore be accepted. with respect to amendments 19 and 33, which ask for the insertion of provisions for financial support for temporary fishing bans and for fishermen affected by the prohibition of certain fishing gear, the commission believes that these proposals are not appropriate here, either because there are already rules on these matters under community legislation and/or because these issues are to be dealt with in the framework of the european fisheries fund proposal. the commission cannot accept amendment 27, which could dilute the significance of setting a minimum landing size for the species covered by the proposed regulation. in the absence of a minimum size, there would not be any incentive for fishermen to avoid the areas of aggregation of juveniles or undersized organisms or to improve selectivity as regards fishing gear and practices. moreover, the common market for fisheries products calls for a harmonised minimum size. a strict correspondence between minimum size and selectivity of prescribed equipment is rarely possible, particularly in multi-species, multi-gear fisheries, as is the case in the mediterranean. moreover, some minimum landing sizes are set for species caught, mainly with fishing gear and practices that are not regulated in this proposal and where selectivity is essentially left to the fishermen themselves. as far as amendment 28 is concerned, the same is not clear. the deletion of paragraph 3 would mean that whitebait fisheries would be completely forbidden. the commission's aim is instead to keep them within a clear regulatory framework of national management plans. the commission cannot therefore accept this proposal. the commission cannot accept amendment 29, because a 30% increase in the height of the nets would increase fishing effort for small pelagic species, against scientific advice that calls for no increase in the fishing effort targeting this resource. moreover, since purse seines may be used to catch demersal species in coastal areas, we should avoid authorising large purse seines that could touch the bottom in coastal areas where protected habitats, such as posidonia beds, occur. the commission is however open to regulating this type of fishing gear by differentiating between purse seine fisheries for small pelagic species, demersal species and tuna. each category should follow different rules. i hope that further refinement will be possible within the council. the commission cannot accept amendments 30 and 31. it is widely recognised that management of fishing effort should be one of the main management tools in the mediterranean. establishing the maximum overall dimensions for certain small-scale fishing gear is a way to address this. the huge number of fishermen using this gear makes it indispensable to set maximum dimensions to avoid further increases in size which would result in insuperable walls of nets that impede free movement and migration for several species. small-scale fishermen should also contribute to conservation. the commission cannot accept amendments 32 and 34 for different reasons. the list of species in annex viii to council regulation 1039/98 requested by amendment 32 contains species which are either not present in the mediterranean or which can be caught by bottom-set nets and anchored floating nets in coastal areas. it is therefore undesirable to include the full list of species here. in fact the rationale of article 7(2) as mentioned in amendment 10 is to list a group of species which are caught offshore in midwater, or close to the surface of very deep waters and which, when they occur in the catch of a bottom-set gillnet or entangling net, are clear signals that such a net is a drift net rather than a bottom-set net. this provision is the only way to enforce the large pelagic drift net ban. nonetheless, the commission is open to a large list of species if there is evidence that certain species cannot be caught by real bottom-set nets but only by drift nets. amendment 34 suggesting a derogation for vessels smaller than 18 metres would gravely weaken the enforcement of the large pelagic drift nets ban. this amendment is based on the assumption that article 7(2) addresses a type of surface gillnet targeting tuna. this assumption is not correct, since such nets cannot be classified as an anchored floating net or bottom-set net as defined in article 2(9) and (12) respectively. in conclusion, may i express the confidence that, with the help of the european parliament, we can put before the council an improved commission proposal, which should facilitate its position vis-à-vis the council. all mediterranean fishermen and the marine ecosystems that they exploit need urgent and effective fisheries management. the adoption of a new, more effective and specially tailored european union conservation policy for mediterranean fisheries will also foster more ambitious steps within the multilateral framework of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. as you are well aware, fishing effort has been increasing in many areas and the exploitation pattern is still not satisfactory. in order to guide mediterranean fisheries towards sustainable exploitation of the mediterranean marine ecosystem, the european union, which is the biggest fishing power in the region, needs to set a good and credible example. a more effective community management framework is needed to recover the full production and productivity potential of the mediterranean in the interests first of all of our fishermen and also of other european citizens that want to benefit from the richness of the mediterranean. in concluding my speech, may i once again thank the rapporteur, as well as the chairman and members of the committee on fisheries, for their excellent cooperation on this matter. their proactive cooperation has indeed provided us with a substantial input that will help ensure sustainability for fisheries in the mediterranean.
the rapporteur. mr president, with this report, which i have had the pleasure of presenting, we have the opportunity to finally put forward a fisheries management system for the mediterranean, eleven years after that first attempt to bring order through the regulation on technical measures, regulation no 1696/94. it is therefore a key moment for the fisheries sector in this area, and for it to have come to this, i must express my full appreciation to commissioner joe borg and director-general jörgen holmquist, who have been personally involved in bringing this dossier forward, to their services, with whom i have worked day by day, and of course to my colleagues in the committee on fisheries, who have had the wisdom and generosity to give up many demands from their local sectors, sometimes under strong pressure, in order not to deprive the whole mediterranean sector of common management rules. with the involvement of all, the initial commission proposal, which, perhaps too hastily put forward, had opened up seemingly insurmountable fronts with the national administrations, with the sector and with this parliament, which, as will be recalled, rejected the proposal through the report by mr lisi. to get out of this impasse, i proposed to the commission that we work together on a common text on the points where the confrontation was greatest, in order to achieve a joint compromise, accepted by parliament and the commission, which we would present again to the council of ministers. the commission accepted this method and, after very hard negotiation and almost a year of work, it is the one we are submitting to this house today for approval. it may not be as ambitious a text as many of us would have liked; perhaps no one has been a 100% winner. but each of us has lost a little so that we can all gain, because if there was one thing we all agreed on, it was that the situation of fisheries in the mediterranean could no longer be left to the arbitrary rule of minimum regulations, which complicated rather than solved the problem. if politics is about sacrificing particular interests to achieve the common good, i think we can be satisfied with our work in approving this report, which shows that when we work together it is easier to make progress, without forgetting that when a balanced text is presented to those in power and agreed by all, it is easier to accept and therefore easier to apply. this method of working has also enabled us to eliminate leaps in the void lacking scientific and logical foundation, and some contradictions in the initial text which were at the origin of the outright rejection of the proposal. for example, greater rationality and coherence are being introduced in the regulation of the depths and distances from the coast at which fishing can be carried out in this biologically, economically and socially sensitive sea. dredges are regulated for the first time, the use of more selective nets such as the square mesh for trawling is introduced and considerable progress is made in matching the mesh size to the minimum species sizes. in addition, in the face of the commission's maximalist initiative on the seals, minimum sizes and hooks for fishing for large-sized fish, it was agreed that an attempt should first be made to get these regulations out of regional fisheries organisations such as the gfcm and iccat, since these fisheries are also carried out in the mediterranean by fleets from third countries and it is not logical to impose restrictions only on community vessels. however, if within one year these international bodies do not reach a common standard, the commission will be entitled to submit a new proposal, since we do not want to abdicate our responsibility, which derives from our strong presence in these fisheries. finally, i would like to highlight the efforts to protect species by introducing minimum sizes, with the temporary exception of hake, where we started from a commission proposal to reduce the size to 15 cm, which we have maintained until 2007, when it will return to its traditional size of 20 cm, coinciding with the proposed increase in mesh size. the size of sardines is also regulated for the first time, sizes that had disappeared from the commission proposal, such as that of clams and herring, are recovered and reasonable increases in size are introduced for other species, since the ultimate objective is to come closer, also in the mediterranean, to scientific recommendations. mr president, after having again asked for the house to approve this report and, above all, the compromise reached with the commission, i can only hope that the council will accept the new proposal in its entirety, the result of this compromise between the european commission and the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, first of all i would like to say that the work done by the rapporteur - in this case mrs fraga - and the members of the committee on fisheries is, first of all, an example of collaboration, as the commissioner has pointed out, and a very positive sign for the future coexistence of the two institutions. the cooperation - which, as i say, was close and effective - between the rapporteur, mrs fraga - who has done a magnificent job - and the commission services has enabled us to arrive today at this plenary with a compromise acceptable to the majority of this house, and with a clear message to the sector, which we cannot, under any circumstances, break or cloud. and, most importantly, this cooperation allows us to unlock a situation which has become unsustainable - unsustainable for the community institutions, of course, but above all for a sea whose resources have long been considered overexploited, but which, because of its peculiarities, lives in a state of permanent exception, which it is time to end. the mediterranean is a different sea: national waters are more limited than in other parts of the community, fish stocks are trans-zonal and shared, the general characteristics of the activity are different - there is a mainly artisanal fishing fleet and a high proportion of part-time fishermen, there are many small landing sites, etc. i have only mentioned some of the features that make the mediterranean a different sea, but the objectives of the cfp are the same in the mediterranean as in other community waters: we must ensure that the exploitation of living aquatic resources creates sustainable environmental, economic and social conditions. therefore, in addition to the structural and market measures defined in the cfp which are already in place, conservation policy must be developed in the mediterranean in a similar way, as must the regulation, which must be improved and developed, the harmonisation of minimum sizes and technical measures, which must be absolute throughout the european union and effective throughout the mediterranean basin, and effective control, which must solve the problem of the sale in one member state, which is too often spain, of illegal fish from another member state, because this illegal fishing harms us both: the selling state, because it degrades resources, and the receiving state, because it degrades prices and, above all, fishermen's confidence in the management mechanisms. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur and hope that we will all come out of the vote well today.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr freitas, who has done an excellent job and, moreover, we have recognized this - no amendments have been tabled - and also my colleague, mrs stihler, who, on behalf of the socialist group, has done an excellent job as an alternative rapporteur. i would like to express here, however, very modestly, some opinions which may be a little bit different but which i think can add to what has not been said. firstly, the main reason why the european community is involved in the icat and the apicd is because of the presence of the european or spanish tuna fleet, as you will call it, in the eastern pacific, where it has been operating since 1975. i say this because in the explanatory statement of mr freitas' report the justification seems to be based on other grounds than the presence of our fleet in the eastern pacific. our fishing fleet in the eastern pacific and of course it has never fished with dolphins, because there is a community regulation that prohibits it: council regulation 850/98 of 30 march 1998, article 33. i would also like to say, because i think it might be useful in this house, that the apicd is being created because of a specific problem of the american fleet and, subsequently, of the mexican, venezuelan and colombian fleets, the only ones, together with el salvador, that are currently fishing with dolphins. i think that is something that we as europeans can be satisfied with. we, who have been fishing in that area - as i said - since 1975, participate in the apicd without our activity having anything to do with the real objective of this agreement, because we do not fish with dolphins. the eu signed this agreement, the apicd, on 26 april 1999, communicated this decision to the depositary of the apicd, the united states of america, by a memorandum of understanding on 8 june 1999, and the council considered at that time that the signing and this provisional application were the first steps towards its subsequent approval by the ec. although the community was not able to become a member of the ciat for technical reasons, the council exceptionally authorized the kingdom of spain to accede to the ciat convention. this accession took place in 2003 in guatemala. this authorisation provided that spain would participate in the decisions of the ciat in accordance with the community position and in close consultation with the commission, thus ensuring the effective participation of the community in the ciat. i therefore believe - and this is an opinion - that the report should call for - and perhaps the commission can shed some light on this - the final ratification of the apac by the european union, and not its accession to this convention. i would also like to make a point on amendments nos 11 and 12. the regulation does not in any case mention a label which is safe for dolphins; that label, as such, does not exist. what the regulation does contain, in article 3, is a series of definitions, one of which is the definition of 'tuna without risk to dolphins'. i congratulate the rapporteur again, and i think that perhaps a little bit of realism is needed on the subject we are dealing with.
mr president, i believe that, in accordance with the rules governing this house, the epp-ed group, which is the original proponent of this resolution, should speak first.
author. mr president, bolivia is torn between chaos and civil war. the collapse of state institutions, the absence of authority and the disorder that reigns in la paz, above all, make one fear the worst, if the worst has not already been installed. but what has happened in bolivia to bring the situation to such a head? the reasons are many: the succession of bad governments, the failure of the policies of neoliberal fundamentalism, the desperation of the impoverished and excluded masses of the system, the predatory behaviour of the multinationals and - it must also be said - the incomprehension, or worse, the indifference of the international community. the fact is that today bolivia is a failed state, ungovernable and deeply unstable whose situation may get even worse, being more difficult and costly to solve. i was in la paz and santa cruz de la sierra just a month ago, sent by the spanish government to assess the situation and propose possible initiatives. looking back at the report i wrote, i regret that things have evolved in the direction i predicted, but that was no merit, i was not a visionary; it was already obvious, as it had been for two years, that bolivia was heading towards the abyss. during that visit, i did not find in the traditional parties or in the so-called "emerging parties" and practically in any political leader, the slightest hint of sense of the state, a lucid and generous analysis for the good of the country. all or almost all of them calculated what would suit them personally: the convocation of a constituent parliament, elections for the prefects of the country's nine departments, a referendum on emerging autonomy such as santa cruz de la sierra... at that time, i found only one fundamental exception: that of president carlos mesa himself, in whom i saw a well-intentioned man, who tried to find solutions through dialogue and negotiation. but he was and is a man alone, without a party, without parliamentary support and with a motley opposition that demanded contradictory solutions from him. at that time, it had only a high level of popularity and an undoubted dominance of television communication. as he was - and has been - unwilling to repress the demonstrations and street riots, the pickets of the most radical parties and unions took over the streets and imposed their own resignation. moreover, they have vetoed the accession to the presidency of the presidents of the senate and congress, who constitutionally would be the successors of a resigned bureau, and they require that the president of the supreme court, third in the line of succession, accede to the head of state, but only so that he can call general elections in three months. paradoxically, mr president, that may be the only and best democratic way out. but perhaps not because of the demands and calculations made by the most radical, but because citizens will be able to regain the prominence that corresponds to them and that they have stolen from the street, because "the street" are minority sectors that do not count on the vast majority of the 10 million bolivians. what is the international community doing in the meantime? not much of a life. that is why this parliament has raised the question: the european union must be a global player; the european union and its member states are the first investor in development aid to bolivia. because we want the governance and stability of bolivia and because our interests are at stake, the council must instruct its ambassadors so that bolivia can find a peaceful, democratic and free way out. let it never happen again that bolivia's wealth, such as silver, rubber or wood, goes abroad or to the domestic elite, and not for the benefit of the bolivian people themselves.
author. mr president, the current situation of tension and confusion in bolivia was, i fear, predictable. we have long known that large sections of civil society, in particular the indigenous peoples, peasants, workers and the unemployed, are marginalized from the political and economic life of the country. but we in europe cannot pretend that we have nothing to do with what is happening. twenty-six of the newly privatised companies are in foreign hands, many of them european, and this has not helped to resolve the crisis or to increase the population's access to gas and water. the problem is that the european union is continually supporting privatisation processes in latin america in international bodies, without having guarantees that the minimum principles of corporate social responsibility are being met. and what happens then? that companies get credit, invest, want to make money and when there are mobilizations by local groups that have been excluded and because of the price increase as a result of privatization, then european companies decide to leave and demand, in addition, compensation for this, which further aggravates the crisis. for this reason, if the european union is to continue to have a certain credibility as a guarantor of human rights in the world, it must investigate the actions of energy companies of european origin in bolivia and elsewhere, and it must be much more demanding in respect of compliance with social responsibility standards by companies investing abroad.
author. mr president, we do not know what is happening in bolivia right now, which is experiencing some of the most dramatic times in its history. the government palace, where the presidency of the republic is located, is known by bolivians as the "burned palace". indeed, it has been burned several times throughout the country's many popular uprisings. in front of the palace, in the plaza de armas of la paz, there is a bust of president general gualberto villarroel who, in 1943, during an insurrection of the many that have been there, was killed hanging from a lantern. fortunately, according to my information just half an hour ago, the presidential palace has so far suffered no damage and the outgoing president has just made a dramatic appeal to avoid bloodshed and civil war. i think it is my duty to acknowledge, on behalf of my group, that president mesa has honoured his commitment never to use violence to suppress protest movements and i regret that such exceptional behaviour, so unusual in a country with a history like bolivia, has not been met with a response of equal height from the opposition leaders who, in my opinion, have been overtaken by events and have radicalized their statements in the last few hours. today, at this hour, in bolivia, power is in the streets. when the legislators are meeting in sucre, because it has not even been possible to access the congress headquarters in the capital, la paz, due to the blockades, the foreign embassies have activated their emergency plans for the evacuation of the country. today, as we prepare to vote and pass a resolution of support for the bolivian people, appealing to respect for the institutions and the constitutional order, i can only ask god and the quechua and aymara gods to enlighten their leaders and to bless and protect the bolivian people.
author. - mr president, freedom of expression and of the press is one of the foundations on which any democracy that is consistent with respect for human rights must be based. the european initiative for democracy and human rights therefore supports the development of pluralistic information and the strengthening of independent media, also in algeria. and you must continue to do so. in this regard, i must say that i am concerned about the current situation of the free press in algeria, especially after the reform of the penal code adopted in 2001 and, more specifically, the provisions which provide for heavy prison sentences for defamation. it would therefore be a good gesture, within the framework of the euro-mediterranean neighbourhood policy and the association agreement, for the algerian authorities to release the journalists convicted of defamation without delay, lift the state of emergency and stop persecuting the algerian private media. all this would contribute greatly to developing and strengthening the rule of law and to respecting the provisions of article 2 of the association agreement.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 9 june 2005.
before i proceed to the adoption of the amendments to the agenda which have been tabled, i should like to make a statement on behalf of the conference of presidents. ladies and gentlemen, 65 years ago today, in june 1940, three countries which are now members of the european union - lithuania, latvia and estonia - lost their independence as a result of soviet occupation. as a result, for half a century, citizens in these countries lost their human rights and suffered terror and deportations. today our institution remembers these events, which, among other things, are part of our history. it is not the first time that the european parliament has spoken about it, it is not the first time that this parliament has recalled the past of these countries, which are now members of the european union. in 1983, 22 years ago, this parliament condemned the occupation of one country by another. and in these difficult times for the european union, right now, in these difficult times for the union, we must remember that the accession of these baltic states to the union has contributed and will contribute to consolidating the goals of freedom and prosperity of their citizens. today we must declare ourselves proud that we can work together to build a united europe with common values. it is important to remember that building a better future for all europeans is based on respect for human rights and requires constant attention and vigilance, because people who forget their history run the risk of repeating it. thank you very much. (applause) i would like to thank
with the agreement of the political groups, i propose the following amendments to the agenda for this part-session, which are contained in the corrigendum distributed to them. wednesday: mr gargani's report on the statute for members of the european parliament will be dealt with immediately after the joint debate on the european council and the luxembourg presidency's six-month term, in which the president-in-office of the council and mr barroso will take part. the report by mr cashman on the community code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers by persons follows on from mr gargani's report and will be voted on tomorrow without amendments. othmar karas' recommendation for second reading on the monitoring of budgetary positions and the monitoring and coordination of economic policies was adopted on 20 june. this item will be placed at the end of today's agenda. and the deadline for tabling amendments or rejecting the common position will end this afternoon at 4 p.m. thursday: as regards the votes, the report by mr barón crespo on the protection of vehicle occupants in the event of a collision is withdrawn from the agenda, but two other items are added: the two reports by mr cavada on sudan and the congo, adopted under rule 131, and the report by mr garriga polledo and mrs jensen on draft amending budget 2/2005. is there any comment? mr hans-peter martin has a point to make.
having studied rule 132 (2) with the help and advice of the house's services, i find no reason to accept your request. (parliament adopted the amended agenda)
the joint debate on the report of the european council and the commission's statement on the european council meeting in brussels on 16 and 17 june and the council's statement on the six-month period of the luxembourg presidency is now under way. both topics will be discussed together. the president-in-office of the council, mr juncker, has the floor. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
thank you very much, mrs frassoni; addressing the president of parliament does not exempt you from respecting the time limit.
madam president, i hope that minister schmit will be kind enough to listen to me, because i wanted to tell him that what the citizens are demanding now is precisely greater transparency. i think the president of your government expressed the sentiments of all of us when he said, quite clearly, that he was ashamed. it is not credible that some member states make all sorts of declarations of europeanist faith, claiming that they want more europe within and outside our borders, and at the same time demand a drastic reduction in their contribution to the union's budgets. nor is it acceptable that certain governments complain about their net balance with the european union without taking account of their trade balance with the other member states. the case of germany with some member states, for example my own, spain, is very telling. the net balance of payments deficit of germany with the european union is less than the trade deficit of my country with germany. it is not acceptable, mr schmit, that some heads of government should make one speech in the council and another in the media in their own countries. i therefore ask you whether it is true that some member states even assured you of their support in the final vote and then changed their mind and voted against. i would ask you to answer me. it is precisely in cases like this, and apart from the provisions of the draft constitutional treaty, that the council's debates, however embarrassing they may be, must be made transparent. finally, mr minister, i wish you the best of luck on the next 10 days.
madam president, i should first like to thank the luxembourg presidency for the efforts and imagination it has shown in trying to reach agreement on the financial perspective at the european council. we have once again seen that the european leaders have not lived up to the circumstances: they have been unable to get out of their national accounts, unable, at a crucial moment of crisis, to give a positive signal of future political vision. the commission has done its job, and so has the european parliament: it has adopted its position by a large majority and, for the first time in its history, in an exercise of responsibility and taking account of the economic difficulties of some member states, has proposed figures slightly lower than those proposed by the commission. both the commission and parliament have fulfilled their mission. on the contrary, the council is finding it increasingly difficult to take a stand, and this is regrettable, because it is reflected in a lack of leadership that undermines the foundations of the european construction and the confidence of the citizens. i would point out that our group will be faithful to its commitments and, in the absence of financial perspectives, will make full use of the provisions of article 272 of the treaty and will endeavour to establish annually the figures which this parliament has approved in order to guarantee community action. we want to continue to make progress in the construction of europe and therefore need the resources which this house, as the budgetary authority, has already indicated. let us be serious, ladies and gentlemen of the council: we cannot come at the last minute and say that the philosophy of the union's spending must be changed, we cannot claim that more money must be spent on policies that generate more added value and less on agriculture. what were some people thinking in october 2002 when they approved the expenditure for the current period? commitments must be honoured. for the socialist group, and i hope for the council as well, the lisbon strategy and therefore economic and social cohesion are the medium-term development objective. we would like to have many more resources, we already know the achievements of government cooperation in the lisbon objectives. i would like to point out that all policies find their final expression in the budget. if there is any added value in the financial perspective, it is to ensure and guarantee the programming of the union's cohesion policies, which, apart from being a mechanism of solidarity and the correction of territorial imbalances, constitute the most important community public instrument, capable of generating investment, economic growth and employment, and, consequently, the adherence of citizens to the european project. ladies and gentlemen of the council - i say ladies because there is no lady - i ask you on behalf of my group to exercise your responsibility. the 'no' in referenda and the disagreement in the council are but two sides of the same coin.
madam president, to prove europe is really united we have to listen to what european people are telling us. for the first time in the process of the construction of the eu, there has been a big difference – in france and in the netherlands – between the proposals of the elected representatives and the will of the majority of citizens. we are pro-european, we want a united europe and we are working for it, but we the catalans and other europeans from stateless nations do not believe that we are going in the right direction on some issues. we cannot forget a stateless nation’s rights as a part of the human, cultural, language and citizenship rights that are needed for the united europe that we want to build. nowadays we have to listen and learn: learn from old mistakes, such as trying to build a european union only on nation states; and listen to european citizens. it could be that new eu member states understand members from stateless nations very clearly. most of the new member states are new european states, but with a wild history like ours. we all need to build new bridges and deal with new ideas to implement a european union where everyone could be fully recognised. if we continue going the wrong way; if we persist only in the jacobinical model, the european union will not succeed.
mr president, discouragement and determination are two words that begin with 'd' and which i think reflect well the feeling of mr juncker today and that of many members of this house: discouragement at what has happened at the european summit, determination to face tomorrow: discouragement because mr juncker, when he told us about the debate on the financial perspective, looked like an auditor in front of a team of accountants. and i wonder: who was talking about europe when the financial perspectives were being negotiated? no one spoke of europe, everyone spoke of national interests. i am sorry, mr president, but some people have spoken of europe, those we call 'the new countries', the countries of the last enlargement. i believe that if there has been an example of vision and ambition at this summit, which has always been the hallmark of europeanism, it has come from the new countries. i therefore propose that we no longer call them 'new countries', because they have shown that they do not need to be taught europeanism by anyone. i also believe, as mr lamassoure does, that we will certainly have to reflect on the system of own resources. we tried it at the convention - someone will agree - but there was no way to get anything going. there was even a small group of people at the european convention who were trying to introduce a new system of own resources into the constitution. we shall have to come back to this question. and on the constitution, mr president, i think that what is going to happen in practice, which is the suspension of referendums, is a good thing: it is not the right time to hold more referendums and we have to make an effort in the debate. so i think the idea of setting the end of the austrian presidency to relaunch the process is a good one and i think this parliament has to start thinking about what we are going to do in the future. in this sense, the resolution to be voted on tomorrow contains a clause which goes in that direction and i think it goes in that direction of determination to which mr juncker invited us and to which this parliament, i am sure, will join.
mr president, i would like to congratulate luxembourg on three things: firstly, on having defended, as the president-in-office of the council, with strength and determination, the european constitution, which it signed, together with the governments of the other 24 member states, on 29 october 2004. secondly, for having held your referendum. and thirdly, because mr juncker was very clear yesterday at the summit with the united states when he said something that filled me with pride and emotion: 'europe is not on its knees'. it is practically what we said, for example, as those of us who represented this parliament as observers during the lebanese elections, which ended this weekend: europe exists and, moreover, it is useful, not only for europeans, but for the rest of the world. okay, let's think, but think for what? to go into limbo, to go backwards, to have less europe, to stand still, so that the pace of the world will eventually overtake us? no, no, no, no, no. we must reflect in order to move forward, that is to say, to bring the european constitution forward. i think it should be very clear that if we believe the european constitution is a good one, it should not be renegotiated and that, whatever the deadlines, citizens should have a say in it, either directly or through their parliaments. i would remind you, mr president, that it is not that there have been only two referendums to date and that both have said no: there have been three referendums: the first, in my country, with 77.7% of the voters in favour of the european constitution. today, if we add up the yeses and noes of the referendums held, there are more yeses than noes, and there are many more countries that have said yes to the european constitution than countries that have said no. but here we are again, in the usual way: a real debate between eurosceptics and europeans, between those who want more europe and those who want less europe. i am among those who want more europe and that is why i believe, on the left, that what the citizens want is more and better europe, a more democratic and more effective europe. and that is what this constitution is for, which is a point of balance, but above all it is a point of progress.
the next item is the report (a6-0189/2005) by mr gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the amendment of the decision of 4 june 2003 adopting the statute for members of the european parliament (2005/2124 (ini)).
president of the council. mr president, very quickly, i think this statute is a work of transparency. this status changes a situation which, i do not know whether it was a privilege, as mr martín has just said, but which was in any case unacceptable in principle. is it normal that one member of parliament earns 700 or 800 euros while another earns 10 to 12 times or more? is it normal, in any administration, in any department, to have reimbursements that lack transparency entirely? so i think the transparency introduced by this statute is understood by the citizens because the citizens do not understand why you are getting a refund of a ticket ten times the value you paid for it. this is something the citizens do not understand. so if that's what we're changing, i think we've already done something important. personally, i will be clear and i do not want to make demagoguery now with this status. it is to the credit of your parliament that you have adopted this statute or that you will adopt it tomorrow. i think we should thank him for that, we should thank him for all the effort.
i too would like to add my personal and institutional testimony to the thanks we owe the luxembourg presidency. this was a hot potato that everyone passed to the next hoping they wouldn't have to hold it for too long. the luxembourg presidency has had the courage to tackle the problem and to devote a great deal of time, energy and good sense to it, knowing that it is a compromise which leaves no one completely satisfied, but which will certainly bring to an end, i hope, a long-standing situation which, as the minister has said, was hardly acceptable. in any case, parliament will decide tomorrow by its vote; i just want to express the personal gratitude i owe to the luxembourg presidency. the vote will take place tomorrow and members will then decide whether to accept or reject the rapporteur's text. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the following shall be added to the list of the persons referred to in article 141:
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, my speech this afternoon is a bit incidental, because it concerns the study of the legal basis for the proposal for a regulation. the rapporteur thought at one point that he would have to propose an amendment, namely the repeal of article 22 of the convention implementing the schengen agreement, and he tabled amendments nos 85 and 70. under article 22 of the convention, aliens were required to declare their entry to the competent authorities either on entry or within three working days of entry, and the member states were required to lay down conditions and exceptions in this respect. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs referred the matter to the committee on legal affairs, which, after studying it, came to the conclusion that the proposed amendment would require a review of the legal basis and that articles 62 (1) and 62 (2) would not be sufficient but that article 62 (3) would also be necessary, since article 62 (3) of the treaty refers to the conditions under which third-country nationals may move freely within the territory of the member states for a period not exceeding three months. that was the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. the rapporteur was subsequently able to reach an agreement with the commission on this and did not consider it necessary to continue with his amendment, so that at this stage there is no need to change the legal basis. in any case, perhaps the only value of this work is that we know that, in the case of reference to the schengen agreements, it will be necessary not only to refer to article 62 (1) and (2) but also to refer to article 62 (3).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am pleased to be able to discuss security research with you today and i thank you for the recommendations and suggestions you have made to the commission. security is an essential component of various european union policies, such as the common foreign and security policy or the area of freedom, security and justice. but security is also a prerequisite for prosperity and growth and therefore essential to achieving the economic policy objectives of the lisbon action. to meet the challenges of public safety, we need the best tools possible. a strong knowledge and technology base is also a prerequisite. to build them, we need research, both at national and european level. the commission has therefore adopted the following recommendations to the council and the european parliament a year ago: while technology alone cannot guarantee safety, safety without technology is impossible. to meet the high expectations of safety managers, users, industry and citizens, various elements must be in harmony. first, security research must play an active role in creating a social and business environment that fosters positive economic developments and enables prosperity. this research is thus a driver of growth and employment in europe. then this research must contribute to the competitiveness of the european security industry and the research programme will help to establish and develop a european market for security products. then we should also focus on civilian security issues. this type of research falls within the remit of the european defence agency, with which civilian security research liaises to address dual-use aspects of security technologies. finally, security research must be seen as a particularly sensitive sector with very specific requirements: intellectual property rights, dissemination of information, cooperation with third parties beyond the union's borders and the level of the community's financial contribution. security research is part of the 'security and space' dual focus theme in the seventh framework programme's specific programme 'cooperation'. the current proposed budget is about eur 500 million per year. the commission welcomes the fact that the parliament's report calls for a budget of one billion euros per year, as proposed by the group of personalities. in the seventh framework programme, security research will focus on the following areas: protection against terrorism and crime, security of infrastructure and supply facilities, border protection, restoring security in crisis situations. these four themes are complemented by horizontal areas: systems integration and interoperability, security and society, and research coordination and structuring. the european security research advisory board, a forum where users and the commission can consult on the design of the research programme, will be the main instrument for formulating a longer-term vision. in accordance with the report on security research, and in order to ensure good representation of the european parliament, vice-president verheugen has invited five committees to nominate a representative as an observer to the european security research advisory council. the european parliament has always supported the current preparatory action on security research, and that is a good thing. we therefore welcome the report by the committee on foreign affairs, drawn up in cooperation with the committee on industry, on which parliament will be voting. i would like to thank you for the support for security research in general in the debate on the seventh framework programme, and also specifically for the funding for preparatory measures. the commission will continue to welcome reports on the implementation of this preparatory action before the implementation of the security research programme as part of the seventh framework programme for research can begin. security research will focus on activities with clear european added value over national level. we will thus strengthen the competitiveness of the security industry at community level, contribute to the achievement of the lisbon objectives and help make our society as a whole feel and become safer. i would like to thank the rapporteur again for his work.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, as a representative of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i would first of all like to express my thanks and congratulations to mr klich on his excellent report. our contribution consists essentially in setting objectives by optimising the means, in clarifying responsibilities, in granting security research the status of a public interest 'substantial and very important issue', in giving a lot of vitality, through research, to the interoperability so necessary in crisis situations, not so much in prevention as in response and resolution of the same, and in defending the need for adequate funding, linking security research absolutely to gross domestic product, taking into account therefore the economic weight of states and not allowing research in this area to be subject to volatile fluctuations in budget availability. finally, mr president, i believe that we will have a european research programme on security within the seventh framework programme and a pluriform, technical and political advisory committee. through these research formulas we are going to improve one of our greatest weaknesses, the so-called c4isr - the command, control, intelligence and surveillance systems - and it can only be corrected through a correct application of european research policies, without links and without dependence on third parties. there is an absolute need to improve efficiency in the advancement of sensor systems, biotechnology, space and communication technologies. i therefore repeat, mr president, my congratulations to mr klich on having dealt with a report of such importance and significance.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the initiative of this report on the information society, which deals with the un world summit in tunis in november, is useful and timely. this confirms the interest you have already shown in this summit, both through the participation of several members of parliament at the geneva session in december 2003 and through the regular debates on the subject. the commission attaches great importance to the summit and is also devoting considerable effort to it, in close liaison with the member states. this is not by chance, because the vision of the information society adopted by the international community within the framework of the united nations is in line with the european conception which, beyond the technological dimension, embraces the social and societal impact of the technologies concerned. i would also like to emphasize the agreement with the analysis developed by mrs trautmann and tell you how much the commission appreciates the work that has been carried out under its auspices. the report clearly identifies the main issues at stake at the summit: the development dimension and the importance of the social component in the digital divide, the role of technology in improving priority public services and in strengthening citizen participation and, finally, in developing participatory democracy. the same applies to the topics on the agenda, such as internet governance, funding, partnerships and the follow-up to the summit. in addition, your report rightly stresses the importance of the consistency of community positions. it also stresses the importance of civil society participation, as well as the importance of mobilising the private sector. for the future, it supports the european commission's proposals as a whole and proposes a follow-up of targeted actions in the various areas of community competence. in this connection, i should like to inform you that on 2 june the commission adopted a communication which lays the foundations for the european position for the summit, a position which the council should formulate in the form of conclusions next monday in luxembourg. what we expect from tunis can be summed up as follows: a confirmation of the geneva declaration for an inclusive information society, respectful of human rights, freedom of expression, cultural and linguistic diversity; an action-oriented summit focusing on a limited number of priorities; a financing agreement that would lead to increased priority for information and communication technologies in existing mechanisms and host the digital solidarity fund set up in geneva. the internet has become an essential resource for all countries and, for this reason, efforts should be made to further internationalise its governance and to develop governance arrangements that are compatible with the responsibility of governments towards their citizens. a new model of cooperation is needed to translate into practice the provisions of the summit declaration of principles on the crucial role of all parties involved in this governance. for the follow-up to the summit, we want a simple, effective, decentralized solution that takes advantage of the existing organisations and their coordination mechanisms. finally, i would like to say to the rapporteur and her colleagues that i share the concern about the human rights situation in tunisia. the situation is far from satisfactory in many areas, particularly with regard to freedom of expression and association. i have taken every opportunity to say that the country hosting a summit must also be irreproachable in respect of the principles already approved by the summit. i also attach great importance to the full participation of ngos in the tunis summit and i would like to tell the rapporteur that i will be present as far as possible at the hearing she is going to organise to listen to european ngos before the summit. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate your assembly on this report and assure you that the recommendations made will be heard by the commission and followed by it. i would also like to express my conviction that the message you are delivering is likely to strengthen the european union's position on the world stage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, i would first of all like to welcome the report on the information society drawn up by mrs trautmann and congratulate her on the excellent work she has done. in view of the second phase of the world summit on the information society, which will take place in tunisia next november, and also taking into account the united nations millennium development goals and the lisbon strategy, the rapporteur has integrated the set of considerations concerning information and communication technologies and the information society, both from an economic, technological, social or cultural point of view. in the area of culture, which concerns me particularly, the report incorporates the suggestions made by the committee on culture and education of this parliament: it states that the information society must be open to all and that education, training and digital literacy are priority areas for building an inclusive information society that will help to overcome the digital divide and guarantee access to basic technologies on equal terms, as well as the participation of citizens in political decision-making, in order to strengthen democracy, always in the direction set by the lisbon strategy. it also stressed that the information society, in addition to its risks, presented an opportunity to promote intercultural dialogue and guarantee freedom of expression and information, cultural diversity and multilingualism. the debate is closed. the question now is to translate these priorities into real action, and for that we also need a good budget. it is useless to continue working and talking about priorities if we do not have a budget to back them up. the commission has also taken the view in its communication on a european information society for growth and jobs by 2010 that the information society is a key factor which must also be considered, given its important impact on economic growth, employment and social cohesion. we must therefore urgently launch a debate at european level, together with the governments of the member states, and reflect on how we are going to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy in a europe of 25 with a budget of only 1% of community income. either we put aside exclusively state interests, we put aside the 'i' to think about 'we', in europe, or our political will will be, if it has not already been, very much in doubt.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to thank mrs trautmann for her excellent report, which has largely incorporated our concerns through amendments. at the same time, i would like to express our deep concern about the human rights situation in the host country, which we consider to be very critical. i would like the commission to take action to ensure the participation of civil society at the next summit. i would also like to express my perplexity at the possible and imminent extension of software patents, which could represent a very substantial barrier to access to the internet, access to information, especially in the countries of the south. we consider it unacceptable that a few large multinational companies in the countries of the south should create a dependency on the internet from the outset. we believe, on the contrary, that the support and financial assistance of the european union should be directed towards promoting free and open software in these countries, which need interoperable systems, as expressed in this excellent report by mrs trautmann.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on her good work, which i fully share. commissioner, the tunisian summit should make clear the political will of the european union and the member states to promote information and communication technologies as a strategic instrument for economic and social development, including cooperation. the european union's leadership in cooperation with developing countries is certainly an opportunity for these countries to open up to the information society for the benefit of all. but there are two issues that concern me. the first is the financing of the action plan. the global digital solidarity fund, because of its voluntary nature, is clearly insufficient, so more financial resources must be mobilised, whether development, structural or other new ones. i am sure that the citizens would support us in this; the latest eurobarometer survey shows that 71% of europeans want the information society to be given more importance and more resources. and in the european union we have the opportunity, if we get agreement on the new financial perspectives, to take advantage of the priority already expressed by the next council presidency, to focus on the further implementation and development of information and communication technologies. and secondly, with regard to internet governance and the forthcoming end of icann, a new model must be created based on an international organization and which reserves the political decisions to governments and the technical tasks to industry and the private sector, certainly with a flexible operation that reconciles decision-making with the participation of all states. this model, ladies and gentlemen, must also involve civil society by creating a forum for discussion that responds to the challenges and the challenges posed by the development of the internet. only then will a real commitment to the information society be credible.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i was a full member of the committee on legal affairs in the last parliament and i followed this subject, and then, as now, what i had was a great deal of perplexity, because here we are talking about the commission's legal responsibilities, based on article 232 of the treaty, which refers to the right to appeal for failure to act, but according to article 232, in order for the european parliament to claim a breach of the treaty, there must be a breach of the treaty as such. and of course, this is a directive that was not adopted by a previous british government and was then adopted by a subsequent government, which is the current government; the commission initiates an infringement procedure in accordance with article 226, the situation is changed, the directive is incorporated and then, as commissioner mccreevy has pointed out, according to the case law of the court of justice of the european union, there is no possibility of continuing the procedure before the court, because article 226 says: 'if the commission considers that a member state has failed to fulfil one of its obligations under this treaty, it shall issue a reasoned opinion on the matter, after having given that state the possibility ...' as the state complied with the commission's opinion, we have no case at this stage from a legal point of view. i have the impression, as commissioner mccreevy has said, that at this stage there is only a right of appeal to the british judicial authorities themselves, but not to the institutions of the european union. in legal terms, we could say that at the moment neither this parliament, nor the commission, nor the court of justice of the european union are the appropriate forum for raising such complaints. unfortunately, that is the wording of the treaty. we could have a different treaty, which would impose obligations on the commission in respect of things that have happened before, but the case law of the court of justice in this case is exhaustive and that was the reason why i objected to this issue then and i still object to it today. in other words, the treaty does not allow the commission to bring a state before the court of justice when the state has already complied with european union law. it is not a mathematical or immediate, automatic system, but it requires first of all a request to the state, and when the state complies the procedure is over; from then on the commission has no possibility of doing anything. i have the impression that at this stage both the answer given by the commission earlier and the one just given by commissioner mccreevy are fully satisfactory. i would recommend to those affected by the lloyd's case that they go to the british courts and pursue the appropriate actions in accordance with british law, but i think it is pointless for us to bring this procedure up here at this time; it is a huge waste of time for this parliament and, if you will, even a deception for the people affected, because they are being led down a path that will lead nowhere. and the only possibility of satisfaction is the british courts themselves; i believe, in fact, that there are already actions taken before these courts. it's the only chance of action. and that's my recommendation to the people affected for this type of claim.
mr president, commissioner, we are living through difficult times in the european union, difficult times characterised by a lack of confidence, which has the effect of a lack of economic growth and an inability to create jobs. and at times like these, when institutional reforms are undertaken, as in the case of the stability pact, it is important that all the institutions of the european union be present and participate in these institutional reforms, to give them more credibility and to convey, in short, to the european citizens that these reforms are working for economic growth and job creation. that is the spirit of the work of this european parliament: a clearly constructive spirit. some of us are very critical of the spring council; we think that the pact should not have been reformed as it has been. but despite this, we have presented constructive initiatives to complete nothing less than the preventive aspect of the stability and growth pact, and in view of this it is absurd for the council to close its eyes and not accept a constructive initiative by the european parliament, which is intended to give reliability to the stability pact and increase its credibility. i hope that this situation will change, that tomorrow the european parliament will vote in favour of these amendments and be consistent, and that the council's intransigence will be overcome, after we have seen what the state of the matter is, what the causes are of the difficult european crisis we are witnessing. the commissioner who is here today knows full well that the budget surplus - what a budget surplus you had when you were in charge of ireland's finances, mr mccreevy - what envy - he knows full well that the quality of public finances is a confidence building factor in promoting economic growth and job creation; that is what the european union needs at this moment and that is what we are aiming for. i would like to thank mr karas for his attitude and his work, which has been truly commendable.
ladies and gentlemen, before i give the floor to the prime minister of the united kingdom, i am pleased to welcome a delegation of members of the national assembly of the republic of korea, led by his excellency mr lee sang deuk, who has come to brussels to take part in the eighth european parliament-korea interparliamentary meeting. the european parliament and the korean parliament are meeting for the first time in what is for both of them a new legislature. i would like to emphasize that our dialogue is now fully political and has over the years dealt with a wide range of issues ranging from regional and international security to the daily concerns of citizens, alongside the increased active role on the international stage of both the european union and south korea. mr president, allow me to welcome this visit and the growing cooperation with the republic of korea and to wish you a happy stay in brussels.
the council's statement on the programme of work of the british presidency is on the agenda, and i shall give the floor to the prime minister, mr tony blair, whom i welcome. i would remind you that the conference of presidents of the political groups of this parliament had already had the opportunity to meet the british presidency in london earlier today, where we had the opportunity to exchange with the prime minister a number of views on the way in which the united kingdom will carry out its rotating presidency of the union. but now it is up to the house to report it.
mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the socialist spokesman seemed to be bothered by the fact that many members of the epp-de group applauded his speech this morning. many of us believe that we must not only open a period of reflection in the european union, but that we must open a period which you have called 'renewal' and others may call 'rectification', and we cannot leave renewal or rectification in the hands of those who do not believe in the european union. the difference is that the correction must be profound and orderly, guided by our conviction of the need for union and without falling into a hurry. the problem is that he has only six months in the presidency to make a thorough and orderly correction. the rush to the end always consists in blaming the union's problems on others, on the other institutions, and always tries to get us to confirm our own position, and that is the opposite of the european spirit. an orderly rectification is needed. each institution must be able to diagnose and plan what it is that is keeping it away from europeans. the council must do it, the commission must do it and this parliament must do it. and each institution must focus very specifically on what today separates it from the europeans. it is not the axes of a nation that will lead the way in the future in regaining the confidence of europeans; it will be a few european political projects, few but relevant. the european union cannot continue to talk about everything and say nothing. we must be able to find these political problems associated with real problems of security, economic growth and cohesion for europeans. i would like to conclude by saying that step by step progress was the key to those exemplary europeans who designed the union; today we must not take a step back, we must look up, we must run away from routine, which is the worst of bureaucracies in the european union.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome your passion for the debate. but we are not starting the debate today; we are to put it in sporting terms in the middle of the match and we have to win the second half. as regards the constitution, it must be said that more than half of the european citizens and 60% of the euro area have approved it and i cannot understand why the positive vote of 75% of spanish citizens is worth less than the negative vote of 66% of dutch citizens. mathematically, that doesn't hold up. you are a man of principle: you have passed a bill of rights in britain and lifted the veto on the social charter. what are you going to do about the constitution? are you going to act or are you going to wait and see? that's a question i'd like you to answer. as for the euro, you have had the grace to stay out of it. you will agree with me that when we talk about the social model, we also have to talk about the economic model. what are you going to do with the euro? and, as regards the financial perspective, and since we are in a parliament, i would inform you that the constitution gives this parliament the possibility of taking part in the decision on agricultural expenditure, which we cannot do at the moment. moreover, if we are a parliament that respects itself, we must apply the principle of 'no taxation without representation' and we must not go beyond soviet planning; seven-year financial perspectives are going beyond the gosplan, and that is unsustainable. the president of the commission is right when he says that a transitional solution until 2009 should be opted for. we also have to go to the polls defending our options. that is the democratic way to act and i hope that you will actively help us to consolidate a more democratic and more transparent europe.
mr president, prime minister blair's presentation was more a series of interesting reflections than precise commitments for the six months of his presidency. in assessing your intentions in the field which concerns me as spokesman for the socialist group on development and humanitarian action, i have to refer to the approach announced by your government in this matter. i would like to express our satisfaction that among the main priorities of the british presidency is to increase the european union's action and resources in the field of solidarity with the developing world: the achievement of the millennium development goals will be confirmed as a priority objective, with the eradication of poverty as the main concern and africa at the forefront of attention, because africa is at the forefront of the problem. i would like to make two further comments. the first is to acknowledge that the luxembourg presidency has set the bar very high with what was decided at the development council last may; i hope the british presidency will see these decisions as a good springboard for its own action this semester. my second comment is to underline and to welcome the fact that the priorities of the british presidency in the field to which i refer coincide with those of my socialist group. this is natural, not only because of the coincidence of values, but because for months we have maintained an intense cooperation with your officials in the cabinet, friends hillary ben and garret thomas. i hope that the british presidency will seek to establish a close relationship with the european parliament in this area this semester, and i am sure that we will make further and better progress in this way.
mr president, i was very interested in the prime minister's speech this morning, in the reference he made to the europe of values. and alongside this legitimate vision there is another complementary vision of europe (i would like mr blair to put on his helmets), another legitimate europe which complements the previous one, namely the europe of the tangible, the europe of the cash and the sound, the europe of the net balance and the net beneficiary and the europe of the british balance. i am very pleased that you believe that in europe we no longer define ourselves merely as consumers of a large market, but as citizens of the union, since there is a qualitative social leap from the notion of consumer to that of citizen and from the notion of a common market to a project of political union. clearly, leadership is needed to steer the project in the right direction, to bring europe closer and closer to its citizens, to get back on the path of sustained growth and job creation and to make europe weigh on the international scene in accordance with its economic, commercial, financial and industrial weight. europe, mr prime minister, is not the problem, it is the solution. and we need more europe, not less europe. and what's important is to move from words to deeds. mr president-in-office of the council, it is important to move from words to deeds and to stop with purely rhetorical statements, because you have signed a letter reducing the ambitions and budgetary means of the european union. or do you think, mr president-in-office, that doubling the funds for africa will make it possible to meet this priority with fewer resources? or do you think that the priority of making the necessary economic reforms will be met with fewer resources? or do you think that the challenges and the challenges facing the european union will be met with fewer resources? i wish you luck, mr president, in the british presidency's efforts to build up will and mobilize consensus to move the european union forward, but it can only do so from two perspectives or from two premises: first, putting figures at the service of ideals, on the one hand; and secondly, mr president, that each one should seek his advantage in the common advantage. (applause) i would like to thank
listen, i'm not giving the floor to the prime minister, mr blair, until you sit down and shut up. the absolute disrespect you have shown towards your colleagues who were intervening earlier... mr martin schulz, i know perfectly well who is disturbing the order. i'm asking everyone to sit down and be quiet. we're not going to continue this session until you sit down and shut up. and if you don't, i'm going to ask the ushers to invite you to leave the room. the honourable members in the corridor will please take their seats. (applause) would you be so kind as to listen to what the president is saying and not disturb the proceedings of the sitting any further? a little speed, please. i'll see you then. are you ready to hear mr. blair? then shut up, please.
prime minister of the united kingdom. mr president, i thank you for that excellent discipline you have imposed. (laughter)it would be interesting to see how you would get on in the british house of commons at question time! (laughter)i thank everyone who has contributed to this debate. one thing, for sure, is that i have not been short of advice, for which i thank you. as you may know, some of our colleagues in the gallery today are from kuwait, and have just passed a law, as was indicated earlier, giving women the vote for the first time. they are an excellent example of how progress and change can happen. it is good to see you here, sir. (applause) in addition, many speakers have asked me to try to achieve a consensus across europe. it must be said, given the broad range of views, that is going to be quite some challenge. perhaps the most interesting suggestion was that we made welsh one of the official languages of the european union. it could indeed be the way to achieve a consensus, but we shall see. one thing is certain: our debate today has provoked enormous interest not just here in this parliament but also outside. i will try to respond to some of the specific comments made by the leaders and then make a short summary. in respect of president barroso, i thank him very much for his kind words. i agree with the agenda he has set out. there is much in common we can work on. the only point i would make on the review clause in respect of the next financial perspective is that it has to be very clear, it must not be ambiguous. let us work on that together. in respect of mr poettering, i thank him for his kind sentiments and we will do our very best to reach agreement on some of the difficult issues, in particular the financial perspective. he reminded me of john major’s negotiations in 1992, so i was rather grateful for mr schulz reminding us that we defeated both him in the 1997 election and three subsequent leaders, but that is perhaps a point to make in a different forum. (applause)on the constitution, i had not appreciated that you said this yourself, mr president, but if you said, as was reported in the course of the debate, that it was not the text but the context, then i entirely agree with that. there will be a time when we have to return to the discussion of sensible rules to govern our working as a european union of 25 – and even larger numbers in the future – rather than 15. the truth is that we need a new framework of rules for europe and, therefore, the impulse that gave rise to the constitution was entirely correct. it is, however, necessary to get the political direction firm in order to get the constitution supported in the way that it should be. mr watson challenged me over council transparency and, certainly in relation to legislating, there is a strong case for that. let us consider that under our presidency. (applause)it is good to see mr cohn-bendit after all these years. a long time ago i used to listen to your speeches, and now you listen to mine. (laughter and applause)only history will tell whether this is progress or not! i apologise for not spending more of my speech on the issues of the environment and climate change. i hope that at the g8 summit we will have at least a chance for these issues to dominate the discussion. they will be a major aspect of our european union presidency. in respect of what mr mote said about the rebate, i repeat that we must look at all of this in the round. these issues all need to be resolved together. all i would point out is that without the rebate we would have been contributing about 15 times as much as other similar sized countries over the past 10 years, and even with it, we are contributing more. without it in existence at all, over the next financial perspective we would be the largest net contributor. i understand your concerns and i repeat that britain will pay its fair share of enlargement. we support enlargement and will contribute towards it. however, the issue has to be resolved in a way that is satisfactory for everybody and in the context, particularly, of the point about the review that we discussed earlier. i apologise for not dealing with every single individual point. in some contributions there has been a sense that this is just a dispute between leaders based on personality or disagreements between countries. i want to make it clear that, in general terms, i think i have shown over the past eight years that i have always tried to reach consensus at a european level and it is important that we do so. (mixed reactions)obviously i have not reached consensus on that statement! (laughter)the difficulty we have at the moment which i just want to describe to you is: why is it that i feel so passionately about the reform agenda? it is because of a sense of urgency. we do not quite realise in europe the competitive economic challenge we face today. it is serious and it is urgent! (applause)it is strange how things happen but just now everybody has mentioned china, india, etc. in their speeches. now, however, people understand the seriousness of this situation. it is not simply china and india: take countries like vietnam or thailand today. the changes they are making in their economies are amazing and dramatic. the trouble is that in today’s world you have to adapt constantly to that process of change. my worry is that if we do not, two things will happen. first, the very social model and the idea of social solidarity that we, and i, believe in is put at risk. second, if we cannot handle the challenge of change and if we are unable to adapt to do so, then as a result support comes about for the policies that mr farage outlined for the uk independence party. i have to tell him that i completely disagree with those policies. i do not want britain to be in the position of leading a charge against the european union. that is not my determination at all. the difference between you and me is very simple: you see the problems of the european union as an opportunity to wreck the european union, i see them as the necessity for reinvigorating the european union. there is a big difference between the two. (applause)i am well aware, as i have said in my own parliament and country, this debate for change and reform cannot be led in any other way than from a pro-european perspective. that is something i understand. it is not enough for each person to simply claim europe for themselves and to say that if you challenge what i am saying, it means somehow you are against europe. the question, as was rightly put by several speakers in the debate, is not whether europe should change or whether we believe in europe, but how europe should change and what type of europe we believe in today. that is the issue for us and it is the issue we have to address with a genuine seriousness of purpose. i want to make one other final point. i have said why i support the constitution. but i will be frank with you. the one thing that worried me during the course of all the debates about the constitution was this: there is a tendency that i have noticed over my eight years as prime minister for europe sometimes to go back over institutional questions when the questions are really about policy direction. we can debate some of these institutional questions for a very long time. sometimes you also find it in leaders – and i do not absolve myself of responsibility on this – who, when there is a problem, want to blame a european institution rather than refashion a european policy. it is true that we all have a tendency to do that. my point is that when we decide the direction of europe – and that is what the coming months have to be about; when we have the debate about how europe copes with these great challenges, we should always keep our minds focused on the daily concerns of the people we represent. you are the directly elected part of the european institutions. you know how important it is when you go out into your communities to respond to what they talk about. they talk about jobs, security, crime and immigration. they worry about the change in their daily lives. we must have the clear, tough, proper policies to deal with these challenges. if we do, they will respond to us and tell us that they agree it is sensible to have a new european constitution, because they will then understand the political context in which that constitutional debate is happening. this is a big moment of decision. in conclusion, i would only say that today’s debate in the european parliament has been excellent. i am honoured to have sat through it, i know there have been many different views and some critical things have been said about me and my presidency. that is part of a healthy democratic debate. i would just suggest to you that if we could replicate this debate in our individual countries and go out and engage with our people and talk to them about what we believe in, why we think europe is necessary for today’s world, why we want to make the changes necessary to bring it into line with people’s priorities, then in the very act of debate we will help europe; in the very reaching out to people we will show our relevance; in the very satisfaction of being in a position to answer their concerns, we will reinvigorate the european project. i have found today’s debate immensely impressive. it has been a genuine privilege to sit through it, and i thank you for listening to me. (loud and sustained applause)
president of the commission. mr president, members of this house, prime minister blair, i agree with you that it was a very interesting and useful debate. we all understand that this situation is a very special one. it should not be seen as business as usual. i understand that there is a real appetite for a frank debate. there were, of course, different views, but this debate has shown that there is a will for the search for consensus. in that search for consensus, it is important to avoid simplifications: the idea to put those who are in favour of a free market against those who are for social commitment; the idea to put political integration against economic integration. the truth is that we need economic integration and political integration. we need a consensus, but not one that ignores the need for the hard choices that europe must make. there is now a risk in europe: the risk of populism. sometimes populism on the left against globalisation and foreign competition; sometimes populism on the right, just against foreigners and against the very idea of europe. that is why it is important that all those who have some responsibility in europe – be it at national or european level – fight that populism and show, collectively, their commitment to the values that make europe a great project. (applause)that is why it is important that responsible politicians fight that populism and do not resort to tabloid politics. that is why it is important that we should not be blocked now by the institutional problems we have. we must go ahead with our programme. the european union must avoid paralysis. that is why it is very urgent to have a solution for the financial perspectives. that is why we have to respond to the expectations, namely of the new member states that are looking to us for solidarity. that was their expectation and we should be committed to meeting their expectations. that is why europe needs ambition for reform and solidarity. the way forward for europe is not to avoid the very idea of solidarity. without solidarity and cohesion there is no such thing as a union. a union requires the mechanisms of solidarity. i am looking forward to working with you, prime minister blair, in what i hope will be a successful presidency. you can count on us. we are going to our work every day. we have been doing everything to avoid the idea that europe is paralysed. after that very difficult european council, prime minister juncker and i attended the successful summits in canada and the united states. yesterday we had a very successful conference here on iraq. yesterday the commission took very important and courageous decisions: the green paper on energy efficiency; a new sugar market reform – which shows, by the way, that the common agricultural policy can also be reformed. this evening i leave for africa because, like you, i attach great importance to the african agenda and our solidarity with that continent. i hope that i will also help your g8 presidency for the goals for africa and our solidarity. to conclude and to summarise, we have to reform and change. however, when we speak about reform and change we are speaking about reforming our economy and making it more competitive. we are not speaking about changing or reforming the old values of the european union or of europe, the values that were those of our founding fathers for a european union that believes in solidarity with ambition for all our citizens. (applause)
thank you all very much for participating in this important debate. the debate is closed.
the next item is the voting period. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
mr. gargani, thank you very much for your constructive words. i thank you all very much, and in particular the luxembourg presidency.
we have now concluded the voting period.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 1.10 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 23 june 2005.
ladies and gentlemen, a terrible tragedy has befallen the family of our colleague filip adwent: as you know, a road accident on saturday 18 june took his life and that of his daughter, his father and his mother. parliament has lost a colleague, a very good member of parliament, a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, vice-chairman of the delegation to the parliamentary committee on eu-ukraine cooperation and an alternate on the committee on transport and tourism. i think that all those who have worked with him in these committees and all of us in general remember his hard work and dedication to parliament. filip adwent was a doctor by profession. he was known for his sense of justice and for the conviction with which he fought for what he believed in. for many years she was involved in the organization of humanitarian aid in poland for the poor and disadvantaged. in these painful moments parliament wishes to express its sympathy to his wife, mrs adwent, and to her entire family - what is left of her family. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe a minute's silence in memory of our colleague. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to make another statement prompted by some of the events of this weekend. as you approach the house, you will have seen, perhaps to your surprise, that there is a large white band surrounding the outside of the house. i think this is the first time that we've used a campaign symbol in this building, a symbol of this size, and i'd like to talk to you about some of the details of what this white band means. i would like to remind you that this band is the symbol of the "world call to action against poverty" launched by the president of brazil, mr da silva, in porto alegre in january 2005. since then, more than 600 non-governmental organizations from around the world, including the most important ones, have joined this campaign and are trying to gain the support of governments and public figures. it is now our turn, the european parliament's turn, and that is why we have chosen this plenary week, which coincides with the start of the g8 summit next wednesday in gleneagles. we all agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the fight against poverty is the objective of the union's development policy and that this year presents a great opportunity to make progress in this direction, since several high-level conferences will be held on this subject during the year. you also know that the european union will contribute 46 billion euros this year to development aid, and this means that the european union is the largest donor in the world in this field. we can certainly be proud of this, but perhaps we should ask ourselves what the relative dimension of this figure is - of these 46 billion euros. the 70 euros that each european pays in the rich countries as development aid each year is equivalent to the price of a cup of coffee a week. this is the relative dimension of our effort: the price of a cup of coffee a week for every inhabitant of the rich countries; our generosity does not go beyond that. the june council approved the decision to increase eu development aid to €66 billion in 2010, i.e. from €46 to €66 would be a cup and a half of coffee. but for that, we would wait five years. i think that is an ambitious message that the european union is sending to the g8 summit this week, but we must also remember that to do that we will need to have a budget that we do not yet have. the objectives of this campaign are fair trade, debt reduction and increased aid, both in quality and quantity. i would also remind you that outside this chamber there will be a number of stands set up by ngos, and you will be able to obtain more information there until wednesday. on wednesday morning there will be a debate on africa, on the challenges of globalisation and also, of course, on this campaign against poverty, with jack straw, hilary benn and louis michel. the white ribbon is the symbol of this campaign and after the debate, all the speakers in it and myself, on behalf of everyone, will sign on a second white ribbon as a sign of our support; this ribbon will be cut and hilary benn will take it to gleneagles. but we also need the support of all of you, and that is why i ask you to sign the white ribbon at the entrance to the house as a sign of your action and your will to fight poverty, so that hilary benn can deliver a strong message from this parliament in gleneagles. but i ask you to bear in mind when you sign it that we are citizens with more powers than ordinary citizens, we are budgetary authorities, we vote on resources, we allocate resources and we approve policies; bear in mind when you sign it that in the years to come, as parliamentarians, we will have to approve the union's budget, with or without financial perspectives, and that the commitment to sign it also represents a commitment to launch from the power of this parliament a real effort to eradicate poverty in our world. thank you so much for your participation in this campaign.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, approved by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 30 june, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131. the draft agenda has been amended by a number of proposals which we shall be considering day by day. monday:the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe has requested that the reports by mr lauk on the annual report 2004 of the european central bank and by mr maaten on the implementation of an information and communication strategy on the euro and economic and monetary union be discussed together.
president of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. mr president, you have just explained everything. so, as i understand it, all this is to be voted on thursday. i thank you and my colleagues for that.
let me be clear about what we have just voted on: until tomorrow, tuesday, at 10 a.m., you can table motions for resolutions and until wednesday at 10 a.m., you can table amendments and motions for joint resolutions.
the debate will take place at the end of the agenda on wednesday. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
after this laborious rearrangement of the agenda, we shall now move on to the next item, which is the one-minute speeches by members. i shall continue to apply the procedure which i communicated to you in my letter and to which none of you have raised any objections and which was already applied at the previous part-session.
we will review the system we are using to achieve everyone's satisfaction, but there is a limited number of passes by the council. the presidency shall distribute the available funds among the political groups. we shall examine the matter in the light of what you have said in your speech.
that concludes this item on the agenda.
mr president, mr president trichet, mr commissioner almunia, ladies and gentlemen, i regard the annual report of the european central bank as a sign of transparency and its presentation and debate in parliament as an exercise of democratic responsibility. in 2004, the year of the enlargement to 25, the interest rates were maintained and prices were unchanged from the end of the previous year. there has therefore been a situation of stability, but also a situation of little dynamism. the economic performance of the euro area has not lived up to previous expectations: the increase in economic activity has been weak in the context of the highest global growth in the last twenty years, there has been a loss of market share in international trade and an increase in the productivity differential with the united states, while there have been no significant changes in the labour market. it is therefore necessary not only to reflect, but to make a great commitment: sustainable growth and employment are the main concerns of europeans. the reform of the stability and growth pact is a good response, replacing mechanism with rationality. at this point, mr president, we would like to emphasize the central bank's special role in providing financial conditions for all. we particularly appreciate the reference in your report to the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises and we point out that at this critical moment when confidence in the common project needs to be strengthened, you will continue to have our support in fulfilling your mission.
mr president, we consider this report a step forward in recovering the future stolen from our childhood. the trakatellis report on phthalates in toys is a victory for the health of european children, who have suffered for decades from their effects. the european parliament has succeeded after years of insistence - too many years - in upholding the precautionary principle by banning its use, a use which has probably already caused health problems for millions of children, as shown by a recent swedish study which found that, after analysing more than 11 000 children up to the age of six, the likelihood of them developing asthma and various allergies is three times higher than for unaffected children. we're talking about linoleum floors with those effects. what we have to deal with now is the debate on reach and on preventive and pro-public health research within the seventh framework programme, which should include these issues.
member of the commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would like to thank mrs myller for her comprehensive and constructive report. the report will be a valuable contribution to the implementation of the action programme and an incentive to reflect on the next steps. support for environmental technologies is a policy that creates benefits for all sides, as it strengthens the competitiveness of the european economy and promotes sustainable development. for this reason, environmental technologies and eco-innovation are now recognised as key components of the enhanced lisbon strategy. the specific actions planned by the action programme cover the supply and demand of environmental technologies. the demand, as mrs myller has pointed out earlier, for environmental technologies must be stimulated by setting targets for the performance of key products, services and methods. these objectives should be an incentive for innovation and for opening up the market to environmentally beneficial technologies. the environmental life cycle concept will be the basis for addressing one of the concerns expressed in mrs myller's report. the commission will be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and to assess the impact of the measures on the environment. another concern expressed in the report concerns the participation of smes in the action programme. it should be noted that several of the actions are specifically addressed to smes, although they are not mentioned, such as the action to improve the testing and verification of the performance of environmental technologies, also the support to smes, in particular for the development of eco-innovation and the promotion of products on the market. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption is a very good one. in this connection, i would like to mention the contribution of the european environment agency, which has developed a new web portal on environmental technologies that is linked to a number of databases useful to developers of technological applications and to ordinary users. the future implementation of the action programme will depend on the active participation of the member states. i hope that the preparation of national road maps, adopted by the 2005 spring council, will provide the opportunity for member states to consider specific national measures necessary for the implementation of the action programme. action by member states is equally important in the area of public procurement, as green and environmentally friendly procurement is an effective way of creating and expanding markets for environmental technologies. e promotion of environmental technologies worldwide through international trade and development cooperation complements the coherent set of measures provided for in the environmental technologies action programme. i am convinced that the political support of the european parliament and its constructive proposals will help the european commission to achieve the objectives of the action programme.
mr president, this document is laudable and i think it is appropriate to support environmentally-related technologies. however, i would have liked to have been a little more specific because, so far, the environment is being identified only with two or three aspects of what we could call sustainable development - i am referring to climate change or the consideration that environmental technologies are those which involve an improvement in industrial processes to avoid emissions. however, i believe that there are other branches, numerous and very important, of environmental technologies which are not systematically integrated and do not have the same space in the european union's research projects: an example is the conservation of existing resources and the fight against disasters. it is a very important issue, such as the fight against the problem of forest fires, the fight for the preservation of our heritage and the fight for the preservation of nature. but there's also something that these days i think needs to be brought up. i mean that if europe is consistent with itself and its projects, we must think about developing a line within environmental and sustainable development technologies dedicated precisely to water and the management of the scarcer resources. in particular, we must make an effort in relation to all those technologies which can be applied in africa. we are talking about the fight against poverty. in johannesburg many criticised the fact that the emphasis was placed on the importance of all water technologies, because it would mean the development of large multinationals. it is not that: we must give the world that lives in poverty the tools for water conservation and environmental conservation. that is what i am asking for here, on this date.
mr president, this misleading and ambiguous directive is the dream of patent lawyers and at the same time the nightmare of small software companies, consumers and freedom of expression on the net. because we are dealing with a directive rejected by more than 90% of the small software companies on the continent. we are dealing with a monopoly directive - indeed a monopoly directive - because it is an anti-liberal directive. it is a directive that powers a world of its own of the rockefellers and morgans of the early last century. it is a world that does not benefit european small businesses, whose numbers are increasing, often in the less developed parts of europe, such as extremadura in spain, where hundreds and hundreds of new software companies are developing. these companies are threatened, as are those developing in poland and in all the enlargement countries. there's been a lot of lies told here. it has been said that we are against patents on technical software: that is not true. we are for, obviously, when it comes to the physical world, the forces of nature: a washing machine, a car... no one is against these patents! but we are against patents which are a real threat to the flow of information and innovation. a lot has been said about innovation. unlimited free patenting has been confused with innovation, two things that have nothing to do with each other. what we're defending is the right to develop software, to develop industry. and this directive is going to put curtains and many obstacles to real innovation on the ground of this continent called europe. i think we deserve a software world, a business world, a consumer world, that is open to real innovation.
mr president, the previous speaker, mr gargani, has expressed concern about the balance in the position we take on this proposal for a directive. i believe that it is precisely the rapporteur, mr rocard, and mrs berger, in their amendment no 53, who have highlighted the objectives of this balance, saying that 'the conditions for granting patents and the methods for enforcing them must be carefully defined, in particular in order to keep within reasonable limits the inevitable consequences of patent systems, such as the restriction of creative freedom, legal uncertainty and the adverse effects on competitiveness'. the amendments tabled by mr rocard and mrs berger seek to maintain this balance, firstly, with regard to what exactly is computer-applied invention: we are not discussing computer inventions here. computer inventions - computer programs - are already protected by a 1991 community directive which established intellectual property rights, or copyright, if you will. and that directive is in force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must take great care not to mix one thing with another and thus prevent the exercise or development of computer-based creation. in concrete terms, amendment no 50, tabled by mr rocard and mrs berger, is very important in maintaining the right to interoperability of computer programmes. the fact that a patent may exist on some aspect of the computer program should not prevent the free creation or use of computer programs for further development. that interoperability clause, which is defended in amendment no 50, is also defended in a slightly different text - amendment no 68 - by mrs mann, mrs mccarthy and mrs roth-behrendt. in short, it must be avoided in any case that the development, experimentation, manufacture, sale, licensing and import of software which makes use of a patented technique for achieving interoperability can be considered as infringement of a patent. in short, the amendments tabled by mr rocard and mrs berger are aimed at maintaining the possibility of creation in this area and, if possible, projects such as the linex project, developed by the junta de extremadura in spain, can go ahead in the interests of creative innovation in the european union.
mr ciampi, ladies and gentlemen, we have the honour and privilege of welcoming to our chamber today the president of the italian republic, carlo azeglio ciampi. we all know and remember the brilliant governor of the bank of italy, the prime minister who had to face difficult moments in the italian political system, the able and tenacious minister of finance in the prodi and d'alema governments and, today, the president of the republic beloved by all italians. i think that at this particularly difficult time for europe it is good to remember that president ciampi was the minister who made a decisive contribution to italy's entry into the euro, and it is good to remember him at this time, when some voices appear who consider the euro to be an uncomfortable corset rather than a fundamental instrument for economic prosperity and stability. i had the opportunity to meet president ciampi for the first time in person last october in rome, on the occasion of the signing of the constitutional treaty. i was deeply impressed by your personality, mr president, and your views on european integration. i had already met the politician, but in rome i had the opportunity to meet the man who has always fought with clear-cut passion for the construction of a europe that guarantees peace, democracy and economic and social development. ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a man who has always remembered what europe looked like at the end of the second world war and who has seen the dream of those who laid the foundations of the europe we have today come true: a europe which, in the eyes of many, especially the younger generations, appears as evidence that it does not need to mobilize the will to exist and to continue to move forward. we in the european parliament know that this is not the case, that europe does not make itself, that peace is not secure, peace is never secure and it certainly would not be secure without the success of the european project. the europe we have is not an accident of history, it is not a coincidence, it is not written in the dynamics of the stars, it is a necessity that requires a lot of effort to make it a reality. it is necessary, but to make it real, it requires the efforts of many, of you, mr president, and of all of us. it is the fruit of a slow process of construction, which involves commitment, enthusiasm and sometimes disappointment. president ciampi is coming to the european parliament today at a time of disappointment. he will help us to understand why, because he knows well that europe was a dream made of peace and cooperation. that dream is now a reality and, for that very reason, it no longer makes you dream, it has lost its capacity to dream. we must find new elements, new ideals shared by all, not the same as a few decades ago, to make europe once again enthusiastic, to make it dream, to make it wish that necessity could become reality. i think that mr ciampi's presence is perfectly suited to this debate on the future of europe which he is symbolically launching here today. that is how i think we should interpret his presence in the european parliament, because perhaps we should all work together to create a new young europe, in the manner of giuseppe mazzini, and remember this year, on the bicentenary of his birth, his idea that democracy and freedom unite men regardless of the latitude in which they live. mr president, we are all sure that your visit, your example and your words will be of great help to us at the difficult juncture in which europe finds itself today, to take a further step forward in building a europe capable of guaranteeing not only peace and cooperation but also prosperity and security, capable of doing for the rest of the world what it has done for itself: creating a society based on respect for diversity, on the integration of differences and on the construction of a common identity. mr ciampi, the european parliament is honoured to have you here and i am honoured to give you the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the italian republic. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the warm welcome you have given me and i thank you in particular, mr president, for the warm words with which you have introduced me. i am very excited to be speaking at the highest level of european democracy, to be making the voice of the italian republic heard at the heart of the constitutional system of the union. i use the adjective 'constitutional' with conviction, because that is the legal order that we have built together for fifty years, treaty after treaty. the european union is not, and cannot be, just an economic free trade area. (applause) i would like to thank it is above all, and from the outset, a political body, a land of rights, a constitutional reality which does not oppose our beloved national constitutions but links them and complements them. it is a political body which does not deny the identity of our national states, but strengthens them in the face of the great challenges of an ever wider horizon. it is a land of rights, to which every other inhabitant of this planet can look with confidence that here, better than anywhere else, the values of the human person are respected. the ambitious definition of the union given in the constitutional treaty, namely 'the privileged area of human hope', is correct. we must move forward from this point, all of us together, the eleven states which, like italy, have already ratified the constitutional treaty, the states which have yet to do so and the two states which have said no. we are irreversibly bound by a single institutional framework. it is already strong enough to make it possible to do a great deal together for our citizens, to recover the popular consensus which the treaty lacked in some countries and to consolidate our institutions inherited from a successful past. it is precisely because we are already a political and constitutional entity that we can realistically assess the sense of rejection that has occurred in two countries that have been linked to the european story from the very beginning. a few months ago, when the 25 governments of the union solemnly signed the constitutional treaty in rome, the unity project was surrounded by a general consensus. within a few months, fears that citizens were being excluded from decisions crucial to their future and concerns about the lack of economic growth had taken hold. but is it really justified to interpret the referendum result as a disaffection with european unity? is it justified to give in to the temptation to even question the very design of the founding fathers? if we look at the treaty of rome of october 2004, we see that it is rather the scapegoat for a widespread malaise that concerns not so much the institutional set-up as the policies of the union's governance. we even have a paradox. the insistence on a political revival of the union, which is more urgent than the necessary institutional reforms, is a testimony to the consciousness of the community of destiny on which a constitution is materially based. that is why we must now think about the union's future policies, without abandoning the constitutional design laid down by the laborious convention. what does the future of our europe urgently require? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the fundamental principle of subsidiarity must be interpreted as a principle of political cohesion, which allows participation from below in community decisions, starting with the thousands and thousands of municipalities in our union. the european union must be lived at those levels. europe also needs physical cohesion, transport and communications infrastructure which, while respecting the environment and the landscape, brings europeans closer together. the europe that invented the welfare state needs social cohesion. we cannot tolerate the persistence of glaring disparities in the standard of living between the territories and therefore between the peoples to whom our international personality gives a unified representation. europe therefore calls for the historic objective of convergence and cohesion to be achieved by appropriate economic governance policies. i have always considered, first as a banker and then as a politician, that the principle of the free market in the economic culture of the union means being able to speak to the market in the language of the market, but that it cannot mean indulging in all its exuberance. (applause) i would like to thank it is the lack of political will on the part of national governments that prevents effective coordination of their budgetary policies. this makes it difficult for the union to intervene, with a common fund set up also by the use of international credit, for major infrastructures of european interest, for major joint research and innovation initiatives and to build up a stock of community public goods. the lisbon strategy is the first link in a chain which must lead to the governance of the european economy. the national governments must send a clear message, made convincing by the allocation of public resources. these flexibilities must be used by firms to increase their competitiveness and to increase their production base and sales in europe and worldwide. europe must renew its commitment to major common programmes. we have succeeded many times, even in recent years, for example in the context of cern and the european space agency, with the iter and galileo projects, which have made a decisive step forward in the technological strengthening of europe, and with the erasmus project, which has opened up new european horizons to over a million young people. airbus is also an example of what we can do together if we just unite. we also look with confidence to the initiative of the eurozone, now presided over by jean-claude juncker, to whom i also send my warm greetings on behalf of an old friendship and cooperation. the euro is the most advanced manifestation of the united will of the peoples of europe, a driving force behind political integration. it is a clear sign of confidence that six of the ten new members have already joined ems 2, thus taking the first important steps towards joining the euro area. the tangible benefits of participating in the single currency are plain to see: the european council in luxembourg on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
ushers, remove that symbol immediately. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief statement on the situation in the community. i said, get him out of the courtroom! (applause) ladies and gentlemen, remove any symbol or element that could disturb the order of the chamber. (exclamations) make sure that there is nothing left that could disturb the order in the normal development of the house. if there is, remove it. (the members involved are expelled) mr president, i apologise. keep going. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the italian republic. we must recognize the extraordinary successes of the euro's assertion on international markets and the policy of price stability pursued by the european central bank, but we cannot be satisfied with this situation any longer. the just rigor of the stability pact is not in itself a guarantee of growth if the momentum continues. the positive effects of the euro will continue to be difficult to achieve if there is no coordinated management of both national budgets and the economic policy orientation of the member states. only on this basis will the union be able to fully realize the capacity it has acquired with the single currency to be a global economic actor and to consolidate an economic and monetary bloc capable of asserting the interests of its citizens and the pace of its balanced development. we now also look forward with confidence to an agreement on the union's financial perspective. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one. i wish to express my warmest wishes for the success of the work that british prime minister tony blair, the president-in-office of the european union, has undertaken to carry out before this parliament. the vitality of the european model will also depend on the ability to mobilise new forces within our countries. only by developing dialogue and constructive coexistence between european citizens and non-eu residents will we be able to consolidate the best of our civilisation. finally, the future of our europe requires policies of security and peace. the international vision of the european union, based on the rule of law and trust in the multilateral system, is a source of hope and expectation throughout the world. however, europe can only influence international balances if it is united. if we act alone, we will be the victims of events bigger than ourselves, events that threaten the peace and security of europe. in line with this approach, the european parliament has long been concerned with the question of europe's unified representation at the united nations. the resolution adopted last june, like the previous resolution of january 2004, states that the european union's single seat on the un security council is the objective that europe must pursue. (applause) i would like to thank this clarity of vision is a credit to the european parliament. the awareness of our common roots and the shared memory of the good and the bad of our history testify to the existence of a superior european interest which harmonizes national interests, protects them from the excesses that have plagued our past and projects them into a common vision of relations with the world. the enlarged europe has now reached the limits of its cultural and historical identity. although geography does not allow for a definite recognition of europe's borders, the common space of principles, values and rules expressed by the european union is now well identified. enlargement of the union was a historic duty towards peoples who saw in membership of the european union the guarantee of their newfound freedoms, the culmination of a waiting period of almost half a century. we expect, and we already see, a contribution of constructive enthusiasm from the new member states, which have the right to live in an effective union which is also supportive of them. the enlarged union will continue to be united. however, precisely because it has become more extensive, it will need, more than in the past, pioneering initiatives to indicate the way forward to complete the unity of europe. the european parliament has a duty to re-propose the european union as the general sentiment of the people. it is up to you to respond to the citizens' demands for even greater democracy, transparency and governance. since the european parliament presented the draft european constitution by altiero spinelli on 14 february 1984, this assembly has consistently called for greater involvement in the revision of the treaties. the most representative of the european institutions now has a historic responsibility not to squander the constituent heritage and to ensure that the pause for reflection on the constitution is not the prelude to oblivion. (applause) the conclusions of the european council of 16 and 17 june themselves call for a mobilizing debate and invite the european institutions to contribute to it. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the years since, as a university student in italy and germany, i have seen how foolishly the european states started the second world war, the murder of an entire generation. (applause) i therefore look with concern at any relaxation, any crisis in the process of european integration. however, i hope you have sensed in my words a serene confidence in the future. in the middle of the last century, great and wise men built a building that cannot be destroyed, but we must be careful, like lighthouse keepers, to warn the young of the new dangers. i shall shortly be completing my term as president of the italian republic. six years ago, after taking the oath, i concluded my speech before the italian parliament with a shout of greeting and commitment to italy and the european union, to which i believe i have been faithful in these years of history and change. it is a commitment i am pleased to renew before you now. the european union is a great country, a great country. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words of thanks to mr ciampi, because i do not want to forget them, as i have done on other occasions, because of the excitement of the moment. after listening to you, mr ciampi, i think i can say, on behalf of the great majority of members of this parliament, that this house will remember your words. you have shown that you belong to the young europe. yes, to the young europe. (applause) because, as picasso said, "it takes many years to become young". and you have shown us that you can become young at the very moment when youth is most needed. i apologize for the incident, which does not represent the majority of this house at all, quite the contrary, and i hope that the ideas you have put forward here will serve us in the process of debate which we have to continue. you've made that very clear. let me thank you once again. europe is a success story, but one can die of success. to avoid this, we must avoid trivializing the most precious, most delicate elements of coexistence. we must not let the everyday life of the world detract from what we have achieved. we must prevent the wonderful from becoming banal. that is why, mr ciampi, we thank you once again for being here and we hope that your words will be heard outside this house. (applause) i would like to thank
opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, the first thing we have suggested to the committee on transport and tourism is that the cohesion fund should not only cover the transeuropean transport network projects defined in the 1996 decision, i.e. those approved by the essen council, but also include all those identified by the high-level group, the van miert group, which also cover the new member states, the motorways of the sea and the galileo project, all of which were included in our decision last year. in addition, as regards the areas to which cohesion fund support should be directed, we recommend that sections equivalent to motorways or state roads connecting to the trans-european networks should also be considered and that railway and public transport rolling stock, as well as road infrastructure for coach and bus transport, should be included. finally, we suggest that the regulation we are debating today does not prevent the council from extending the application of the cohesion fund, on a decreasing annual basis over the period 2007-2013, to those member states whose wealth exceeds 90% of the european average, not because they have experienced a positive development in their economic growth, but because of the simple statistical effect of the accession to the union of new member states with incomes below the average. if we do not, we are deceiving ourselves.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, and in particular mr hatzidakis, mr fava and mr andria, whose work we have had the opportunity to follow closely in the committee on regional development, which has been briefed on the background of the debate. they have been an example of commitment, commitment and willingness to compromise. i would also like to congratulate commissioner hübner, because her commitment to carrying on our legislative work has helped us to overcome the discouragement caused by the failure of the last council. i hope that the vote in the plenary tomorrow will be understood by the council as a sign of the european parliament's determination to make cohesion policy a key pillar of european integration. i would like to draw the attention of the british presidency to this because some people might get the impression that by opening up very general debates - the importance of which, moreover, is not in doubt - they might end up with nothing. it is not necessary to recall that we are already past the deadline for the commission to be able to develop the programmes for implementing the funds in january 2007. if we had to wait until the spring of next year for the council to reach an agreement, the commission would not be able to make the first payments until 2009, which would be dramatic for cohesion policy in general and, in particular, for the new member states, to which the united kingdom has always been clearly committed. i think that the european parliament's input will be appreciated, particularly in the formulation of the compromise on such sensitive issues as the n+2 rule, vat or the statistical effect. the three institutions, mr president, have a responsibility to approach the negotiations in the coming months with a determined will to reach agreement, because we cannot and must not allow ourselves to fail again.
mr president, i would like to begin by once again congratulating the various rapporteurs, and in particular mr andria, on their work on the report on the cohesion fund and on the spirit of dialogue which has made it possible to reach a consensus on most of the content of the report. the socialist group considers this instrument to be fundamental to achieving the objectives of social, economic and territorial cohesion. the inclusion of actions in the fields of sustainable development, transport and the environment gives the fund coherence in the path of european cohesion policy. there are issues, such as the application of the n+2 rule, which call for formulas with greater flexibility in their application, so that their implementation does not create problems, especially for the new member states. we must point out the explicit reference in this report to people with disabilities, incorporating the importance of these funds contributing to the removal of architectural barriers. the achievements made by this instrument have enabled countries such as spain to achieve fairly acceptable levels of development; therefore, a sudden and immediate loss would seriously undermine this development. i therefore wanted to express my satisfaction that the need to find a political solution for those countries which will be excluded in the future has been recognised. with regard to the other regulations, we must take account of the existence of other realities which are not exclusively the most disadvantaged regions, but also regions with a statistical effect, natural effect, outermost regions and areas with a low population density. the european reality is plural, it is diverse, and we must take account of the different realities. a strong and successful policy in this area must take account of the different realities and not forget that behind them are the european citizens waiting for a response.
mr president, first of all i would like to defend the excellent work and the difficult consensus achieved by the rapporteur, mr casa, in the committee on fisheries of the european parliament. secondly, i also ask those who are critical of the structural fisheries policy to avoid the cliché that a fishing vessel or an aquaculture plant is synonymous with environmental catastrophe and instead give us their support. i can assure you that with the budget that the european fisheries fund reserves for us - £4.9 billion for six years and 27 countries, which is only an increase of £1.5 billion on the current fund for 15 countries - we can do little damage to the environment and to the community budget. i think that the report has sensibly introduced more measures than those contained in the commission's proposal, with the aim of giving greater flexibility and thus enabling the member states to respond better to their different sectors. we have broadened the scope for the renewal and modernisation of the fleet, because it is difficult to understand why we are punishing certain professions for working with obsolete and dangerous means of production, particularly the craft fleet, which is the oldest. it is not enough to lament shipwrecks in retrospect and to pay tribute to the victims. but now, instead, we have the opportunity to help prevent it because, on the other hand, we already have a whole battery of very sophisticated remote sensing and satellite monitoring methods to prevent overfishing or overfishing. mr president, allow me to say one last word about joint ventures. i believe that these are the guarantee of an effective policy of cooperation and development aid and, in line with the commission's own push for them in the new policy on association agreements, i want to defend them. but, commissioner, i do not think it is possible for joint ventures to be set up in developing third countries without the corresponding community aid, since these countries do not have the same legal guarantees for investment. so if we really want joint ventures to be a mainstay of development cooperation, commissioner, let us give them aid from the european development fund.
mr president, i thank the rapporteurs and the coordinators for their work; it has not been easy, given the circumstances, but they are succeeding and deserve our full support. i am grateful to the commissioner for her efforts to understand parliament's position; we hope that she will do her utmost to facilitate an agreement which is as urgent as it is necessary. we ask the new presidency, whom we welcome on the other side of the fence, to demonstrate, by concrete deeds, the european passion we want to believe is sincere. but as those in power have known for some time, nothing exists unless it is in the budget. the first requirement for credibility, as far as europe is concerned, as mr blair claims, is therefore a timely and sufficient budget. we also expect both the commission and the presidency to provide gradual and fair compensation for regions and member states which are likely to suffer significant financial losses, given the new allocation of resources for an enlarged europe, and to give preferential attention to regions affected by the statistical effect, those affected by the natural effect - the outermost regions - and areas with special structural difficulties: mountain areas, border areas, etc., with depopulation or low population density or difficult accessibility, such as my region, aragon. we also call for the new competitiveness objective, which should relaunch the lisbon strategy and double the effort in r & d & i, to also serve to reduce the technological gap between regions and member states. anyone who believes that europe can move forward on the basis of a few excellent people and a majority of digital illiterates is either being completely naive or lacking in intellectual honesty.
mr president, first of all i should also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his synthesis work, which has been reflected in the compromise amendments supported by all the political groups. the text adopted by the committee on fisheries, mr commissioner, has some very positive points which i would like you to take note of and listen to carefully, because they reflect the reality of this sector - which some of us know well because we live it day by day - for example, that member states may submit national plans throughout the whole programming period or that the article on equal opportunities for men and women be strengthened and that this vision of gender equality be integrated into fishing activities, and, as regards aquaculture, the extension of aid to mediumsized enterprises, not just micro and small, and that it may be possible to finance the improvement of the working conditions and safety of workers in the sector. the consensus reached on the eligibility criteria is also important, as low employment and declining fishing activity make it logical to remove the reference to municipalities with fewer than 100 000 inhabitants. the two most controversial points, the renewal and modernisation of ships and engines and joint ventures as an alternative to scrapping, have also been saved in a positive way, thanks to the good negotiating spirit that has existed. my group is in favour of allowing the fleet to continue the process of renewal and modernisation, provided that this does not lead to an increase in capacity. we have an obligation to keep the fishing industry in the european union alive and well by guaranteeing a living wage and living conditions for the workers in the sector and by preserving resources, but we also have an obligation, commissioner, to save lives at sea. my region, galicia, knows this very well, as in the last two years it has lost many of its people at sea, because of construction problems, because of structural problems in the boats. we cannot allow this to continue and we must continue to support the renewal of the fleet.
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as chairman of the committee on international trade, i would like to welcome commissioner kovács and tell him that we would be delighted to have him in the committee on international trade for a first debate on the subjects we are dealing with together. i'm telling you directly, in this very intimate environment that we're in right now, at this time of night. i also want to express my satisfaction and that of my commission for the adoption of the gsp regulation in april, although it is regrettable that it was not adopted on time to benefit the countries affected by the tsunami. and, with regard to the rules of origin, although it is true that parliament has no power of codecision or consultation on the regulation implementing the customs code, by virtue of the council decision of 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission, we are entitled to be regularly informed about the procedures carried out in committee. this would mean that, as with the directorate-general for trade, from which we received the documents of committee 133 on time, the directorate-general for taxation and customs union would send us the draft implementing measures, the results of the votes and the minutes of the meetings. this is in accordance with the powers conferred on us by the regulation, which are not strictly those relating to trade matters but also to economic and trade relations with third countries. we are therefore interested and ready, commissioner, to consult our respective agendas in order to develop the logical relations of debate, dialogue and control with your portfolio. as regards the content of the reform proposal, we consider that the range of issues raised from the point of view of simplification, flexibility and control is significant; i will refer to them very briefly. as far as simplification is concerned, we welcome the removal of a long list of conditions imposed on exporters and the extension of the certificate of origin solely on the basis of the value-added criterion. in this connection, we would like to receive as soon as possible any impact studies or simulations that have been carried out, showing the economic impact of the establishment of value-added thresholds on trade and the beneficiary countries. as regards flexibility, we believe that allowing regional accumulation between countries in the same region will promote economic integration between them, which is part of our basic philosophy and can also have beneficial effects. finally, as regards control, we must propose the establishment of new control mechanisms so that there is no accumulation of excessive bureaucratic and administrative procedures which could discourage the use of mechanisms for the use of preferences. at a time when the debate on the achievement of the millennium development goals and the fight against poverty is very lively, both in this parliament and in the un, the osce and the g8, we believe that this is the most appropriate time for a reform of the rules of origin which opens up our markets and benefits the countries which need it most. that is the purpose of this question and we would like to know what the commission's criteria are at this point.
member of the commission. mr president, the communication of 16 march 2005 defines general orientations for the future of the rules of origin in preferential arrangements. it is a three-pronged approach, which should be seen as a package: firstly, simplification and appropriate relaxation of the substance of the rules; secondly, improved procedures for their implementation and enforcement; thirdly, a secure environment for legitimate trade, in particular through a targeted monitoring of the functioning of the arrangements. while the orientations should be applied progressively to all arrangements, their priority focus is firstly on the arrangements devoted to the development of each gsp. the commission considers that formal simplification could be achieved by placing the current numerous and complex rules for determining the origin of products that are not wholly obtained in a country by a single, across-the-board method based on value criteria. that method also offers the flexibility, through the setting of the value threshold, to adjust the origin requirements according to the desired results in terms of market access and development for beneficiary countries. it would apply both for determining what sufficient processing is when materials not originating in a country or in a cumulation zone are used, and for allocating origin, but in the context of cumulation, using different value thresholds. let me take the opportunity to address your second question. the need for relaxation has, taking into account my preliminary remarks, to be considered against its desired effect, not only in terms of growth of exports under the gsp, but mainly on the actual development of the beneficiary countries. in that context the criteria to be taken into account in order to define the value thresholds lie in the impact of the new rules on development. the use of a value-added method is therefore a starting point. the commission is launching studies to measure its impact on certain products that are key commodities for developing countries, such as textiles, agriculture and fisheries –until now the determination of their origin has not been based on value – and which are sensitive for the community in tariff and market terms. the study will help in defining the criteria and in verifying whether a value-added method with the appropriate thresholds for both sufficient processing and cumulation is actually in line with the principles of simplification and development-friendliness. should this study demonstrate that the value-added approach would not deliver the expected results for certain sectors, the commission will adopt another approach to better achieve these objectives. referring to your first question, the commission is ready to explain in more detail to representatives of parliament. however, the terms of reference of the study are how the products and countries will be selected for the simulations and the steps to be followed in evaluating its results. with regard to the definition of thresholds, that will be part of the process of drawing up and adopting the commission regulation to amend gsp rules of origin. parliament will be involved, in accordance with the comitology procedure. however, once the commission is in a position to formally start the examination of the draft regulation within the customs code committee, the draft will be made available to parliament. with regard to your third question, the commission has carefully considered the idea of allowing global cumulation between all gsp beneficiary countries. that goes far beyond the cross-regional cumulation. cumulation of origin, to have a real impact, should be an additional opportunity to source materials from countries that are real economic partners, with lower constraints than from other countries. expanding sourcing possibilities to all developing countries would result in denying the very concept of cumulation, assuming that most of the supplies used by developing countries to manufacture products to be exported to the eu under the gsp come from other developing countries. such a global cumulation would, in fact, replace the normal origin requirements. the main beneficiaries of such a situation would again be the biggest exporting countries and not the poorest and more vulnerable ones, whose interests would be better served by appropriate value thresholds. to make an impact, cumulation and its facilitation must remain targeted in groups of countries with mutual and balanced economic interests. as highlighted by the communication, that does not exclude extending existing cumulation zones or merging existing groups such as asean and saarc. however, that must correspond to needs expressed by the groups of countries themselves and it must be supported by the necessary instruments for administrative cooperation in origin matters. the commission remains at the disposal of parliament to keep it informed of the further development of this important file. i should like to say to the chairman of the committee on international trade: i am at your disposal and the disposal of your committee whenever you invite me to participate in your proceedings.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the report on the generalized system of preferences and follow-up rapporteur for the reform of the rules of origin, i would like to stress the importance of the preferences recognised by the union being effectively applied and actually benefiting those to whom they are addressed. the main concern of parliament is to ensure that this objective is achieved and, therefore, in sharing the objectives of its communication, i would like to raise a few questions. as regards simplification, i would first of all like to stress that special treatment is needed for the least developed countries and that lower thresholds and the possibility of de minimis rules in their favour are recognised. at the same time, the setting of value-added thresholds as a single criterion requires addressing certain side problems, because this requirement can be very costly for companies in less developed countries, which would need quite sophisticated accounting and auditing systems. if this criterion is linked to the net cost of production of the various countries in terms of exchange rates, wages and commodity prices, the complexity of the system can be increased and exclusionary effects can be generated in the least developed countries with cheap labour. as regards the flexibility of the rules of origin, i would point out the need for countries enjoying the same preferential treatment, even if they belong to different geographical or commercial regions, to be able to accumulate among themselves. we believe that this would be a coherent rule and at the same time it would be necessary to recognise the possibility of bilateral cumulation with the european union itself, so that finished products in a beneficiary country containing materials from the community could also benefit from the preferences. as regards the monitoring measures, i reiterate the need for impact studies and simulation exercises, and i ask you to listen to the views of civil society and to monitor the monitoring of the system, and to keep parliament duly informed.
we now come to the debate on the report by mr dimitrakopoulos, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european union and iraq: a framework for action [2004/2168 (ini) ] (a6-0198/2005).
president-in-office of the council. mr president, it is a very great honour for me to be here today. it is the first occasion on which i have addressed this great body. thank you very much for the opportunity to do so, first to make a brief speech now in respect of iraq and later in the morning at greater length on africa and globalisation. i begin by thanking the committee on foreign affairs, particularly its chairman, mr dimitrakopoulos, for its report and for the presentation this morning. apologies for my pronunciation. i did ancient greek at school, but of course that was written rather than oral. the disagreements within the european union over military action against saddam's regime in iraq are a matter of record and we all acknowledge that strongly held views remain on both sides. given the strength of feeling, i am particularly grateful to your committee for the way in which it has looked forward for a future for iraq rather than backwards to rehearse the arguments over it. since the end of military action, the european union has recognised its strong and common interest in supporting the new iraq that is now emerging. i think we all condemn those who want to determine iraq's future through extremism and violence. we condemn all killings and kidnappings, but, given the nature of this body, we particularly condemn the recent kidnapping of the egyptian ambassador in iraq, mr ihab al-sherif, and the attacks on other diplomats from arab countries. we are determined to see the success of a peaceful, stable and democratic iraq, which responds to the needs of all its citizens. just over a year ago, the european council endorsed the commission's communication setting out medium-term objectives for the development of the eu's relationship with iraq. that strategy is bearing fruit. last november, the council presented a package of european union assistance to iraq's then prime minister, dr allawi. that included a longer-term commitment to starting negotiations on a third country agreement and to promoting eu trade and political cooperation with iraq; a reminder of the commission's offer to implement the generalised system of preferences and financial support. experts from the commission worked with the united nations and the independent electoral commission of iraq, and helped to make a success of iraq's first democratic elections on 30 january this year. several members of the european parliament also observed those elections. the general affairs and external relations council in february agreed to build on this package of assistance with further support for iraq's political process, including the drafting of a new constitution. it agreed on a new community aid package of eur 200 million and the launch of an eu integrated rule of law and police training mission for iraq with offices in baghdad and brussels. that mission began training iraqi police, judiciary and penitentiary officials yesterday and is making a valuable contribution to the iraqi government's efforts to increase its authority and to entrench the rule of law. overall, the european union is today delivering an impressive and comprehensive programme of assistance to the government and people of iraq as they seek to build a peaceful and democratic future. last month, along with commissioner ferrero-waldner, the high representative, javier solana, and the president of the general affairs council, jean asselborn, i visited baghdad. in my view, and i hope commissioner ferrero-waldner shares this view, it was a very important visit, symbolising the european union's commitment to the new iraq. there the commissioner reiterated the commission's intention to open an office in baghdad as soon as possible, so as to strengthen the eu's dialogue and technical assistance. at the international conference on iraq in brussels a fortnight ago, hosted jointly by the united states and the european union, representatives from 87 countries and international organisations gave a similar and strong message of support to the new iraq. let me just respond in opening to one absolutely key point. i will make my first apology for referring to the rapporteur as the chairman. if this is regarded as a slight on my very good friend elmar brok, the chairman of the foreign affairs committee, i apologise to him too. mr dimitrakopoulos rightly said that the security situation was the key to everything else and the security situation is serious. there is no disguising that. he also intimated that the sooner the iraqis were able to take control of their own security the better. let me say, as one of what were the two formal occupying powers in iraq, the united states and the united kingdom, and someone with his own personal responsibility for the war, we share this aspiration. leave aside the arguments of the past. all of us believe that the quicker the iraqis are able to take responsibility for their own security the better and the quicker the coalition forces will then be able to leave. the security situation is poor. the better news is the increase in the training and ability of the iraqi security forces. now there are 168 000 individuals in the iraqi security forces overall. more and more of them have a proper capability and are being used. we are well aware that under security council resolution 1546 the mandate for the foreign forces in iraq will come to an end in december this year, unless it is renewed in some way, and that in any event, as 1546 makes clear, we the coalition forces are only there at the invitation of the iraqi government. were the iraqi government to ask us to leave, we would leave immediately. on the issue of whether there could be a united nations 'blue-hatted' force, i have no difficulty with that in principle. the only issue is encouraging other countries to come forward. whether we can achieve that remains to be seen. however, on the overall objective of coalition forces being reduced and then leaving and the iraqis taking full control for themselves, we are absolutely in agreement. to sum up, the united kingdom will look during its presidency to pursue a growing relationship between the eu and iraq, building on what we have already achieved. i welcome the committee's endorsement of the goal and particularly their call for the commission to open its office in baghdad and for the eu to send an observer mission to the elections to be held in iraq in december. i greatly welcome the committee's suggestion that the european parliament should build on its relationship with the iraqi transitional national assembly. i look forward to today's debate
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to start by welcoming mr straw to the presidency. i congratulate mr dimitrakopoulos warmly on his report. it is an excellent and timely report and gives us a good opportunity for an update on the intensive developments over the last few months. iraq is still a huge and multiple challenge to all of us. it really is ‘work in progress’ and we have a lot to do there. significant events have taken place, one of which was the troika visit to iraq on 9 june, because we, the 25, showed that we are all united now in reconstructing and assisting iraq. it was not easy, because there have been times when we have not been united. it was also very well received by the iraqis themselves. i also think it was very important that we had the international conference in brussels. many members of the iraqi government were present and they were able to present their ideas and wishes and suggest where we could assist them. the deplorable abduction of the egyptian diplomat and other recent kidnappings have driven home to all of us the conditions under which people are living. i decided, therefore, that the commission should also have a presence in baghdad and, as mr straw has already mentioned, we will be setting up a delegation. we will, of course, do that under the protection of the british and we hope that safety can be guaranteed as far as possible. we know it is not an easy undertaking, but i think it is important that politically we also show our flag and help the iraqi people. the situation in that country is still very difficult and i agree with mr dimitrakopoulos that ensuring military and civilian security must be the main priority of the new iraqi administration. the only way to establish security is to address the underlying causes of the violent attacks by some sections of the iraqi population. i see two concrete prerequisites for this. the first is an inclusive and broad-based constitution and the second is an environment in which reconstruction can bring visible improvements to the daily lives of the iraqi people. i would even add that, thirdly, it is very important that neighbouring countries also contribute to more unity in the country and less conflict. i shall say a few words about the new constitution. this must represent the interests of all iraqis and was a central topic of our iraq conference in brussels. it must be a product of inclusive, broad-based consultation and all iraqis must feel it belongs to them, can protect them and guarantee their rights. the inclusion of sunnis in the main drafting body is therefore a promising start, but, as we know, the process will not be easy. we in europe know from our recent experience the myriad difficulties a constitution can pose and, by the way, we also discussed that very frankly with the iraqis. we are also ready to offer technical expertise if requested. we already provided technical expertise in the last elections, especially for the united nations, and we have said that we will assist the united nations experts again this time, especially with funding, but also by providing some of our own experts. of course that always depends on whether the iraqis want us to help. we rely very much on the united nations to advise the iraqis on compliance with the principles of international law. once the constitution has been drafted and elections are scheduled, we also intend in principle to offer the iraqis an election observation mission to oversee them, but it depends on the security situation. we have not yet taken a final decision on that. the iraqi people need to see concrete improvements in their everyday lives. since 2003 we in the commission have been working on health, education, basic needs, sanitation and water, and also on creating jobs, because what is most important is that people themselves are able to feed their families. of the eur 200 million committed we will soon have finalised eur 145 million, to be channelled through the world bank’s international reconstruction fund facility for iraq to meet basic needs. the forthcoming donor conference in amman will then offer an opportunity for the iraqis themselves to take the lead, based on the last conference in brussels, in setting up a real donor coordination mechanism. they already announced it at the conference and we would like to work with them. in addition to reconstruction aid, the international community also needs to do more to reduce or reschedule iraq’s debts. the commission will be pushing eu member states on this, because we think it is fundamental. it is a prerequisite that neighbouring countries especially contribute more and more, because they will really play a central role in shifting the balance in the region. these countries need the assistance and cooperation of their neighbours. the neighbours have made this commitment in principle, but now we have to see whether it can be put into practice. iraq is an extraordinary country with a great but turbulent past. it is now the inspiration for a new era of international cooperation. we know that the agenda that we have set out is very ambitious, but i think we can deliver if we just stay the course. the iraqi people have shown tremendous courage and resilience, particularly in turning out in such large numbers to vote, but also in their everyday lives against a background of violence and intimidation. they deserve compassion, but also solidarity and financial and other assistance. that is what we have to do on moral and also political grounds. (applause)
i can inform the council and the commission that parliament is offering courses in modern greek, if necessary, to make it easier to pronounce mr dimitrakopoulos' name.
i would like to congratulate mr dimitrakopoulos on the excellent work he has done on a difficult, complex and difficult subject such as iraq, as we can see from the events that have recently occurred: the murder of more than 40 people this weekend, the kidnapping of the head of the egyptian diplomatic mission in the street in broad daylight, the stagnation of oil production and the dramatic increase in violence over the past year. however, mr president, in my view the task of rehabilitating, rebuilding, democratizing and pacifying iraq is not a task for the people most directly involved - and i am looking at minister straw, who is here with us today, whom we also welcome - but a task for the whole of the international democratic community. and the european union must give its very strong support to the tasks which iraq is facing at the moment: a constitution in which the nationalist and religious factors will have to be carefully and carefully weighed, the holding of new elections, the formation of a new government and the trial of saddam hussein. and all this, mr president, by giving the sunni community a place and a greater share in the structures of power. if i had to emphasize one aspect of mr dimitrakopoulos' report, it would be the commitment to the future which this report presents, because the future cannot be built by narrating and evoking the past alone. if we do not have before our eyes the horizon of our ambitions and our plans for this country, we cannot build the future, nor can we even understand the past. that is why it is very important, mr president, that the european union clearly commits itself to peace, understanding, harmony and reconciliation in that country, as commissioner ferrero-waldner has said and as the president-in-office of the council of ministers of the european union has also told us. but i think, mr president, that we must all try to transform the discord of the past into the harmony of the present, as the rapporteur, mr dimitrakopoulos, suggests.
we shall proceed to the joint debate on the basis of:- the statements by the council and the commission on africa and the challenges of globalisation,- the oral question to the council by mrs morgantini on behalf of the committee on development: 'global call to action against poverty: let poverty become history' (b6-0248/2005) and the oral question to the commission by mrs morgantini on behalf of the committee on development: 'global call to action against poverty: let poverty become history' (b6-0249/2005).
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i wish to say, for the second time this morning, what an honour it is to address the european parliament. i greatly value the dialogue i have had with parliament and its committees, not just over the last four years as britain’s foreign minister but over the previous four years as britain’s home secretary. indeed, i have been serving in the british government long enough to recall our previous presidency, seven and a half years ago, when i had the privilege of chairing the justice and home affairs council. i also wish to congratulate parliament on its initiative today to support the ‘make poverty history’ campaign. it is a sign of your strong commitment to global development in what is a vital year for africa and for the poorest nations worldwide. mrs morgantini has submitted to me some detailed questions. i have already sent her a detailed answer to those questions and i shall make sure they are more widely available. in my speech i shall be answering many of the points she raised. over the last few months, the headlines in europe have often been about disagreement and difficulty. the voters in two founder member states have brought into sharp relief questions of profound concern to all europe’s citizens. how can the european union better deliver to them the prosperity and security which we all seek in a rapidly changing world? some of the answers to that question will concern the european union’s internal policies, including future financing. the united kingdom, as tony blair said to parliament just two weeks ago, takes its responsibilities as eu president very seriously. we will work hard to reach agreement on the financial perspective by the end of the year. alongside this, we will seek to conduct the wider debate on europe’s future direction and priorities in an open and inclusive way, respectful of the different viewpoints in this parliament and amongst europe’s governments and citizens. yet if we are to respond fully to people’s hopes and fears for the future, it is just as important that the eu strengthen its actions in the wider world. one of the most striking developments of the last few years has been how much we have done already in the european union to rise to that challenge, on a basis of very broad agreement. a few years ago, europe’s nations were severely divided, as we were reminded in the previous debate over iraq. yet today we are taking strong common action in support of peace in the middle east, sudan and the democratic republic of the congo. we have a comprehensive programme of engagement with the new iraq. we are leading the international community in the difficult but vital process of engagement with iran. the story is the same on security and defence. just a few years ago the debate on esdp revolved around the location and staffing of a small planning cell in a suburb of brussels. but today an eu force is working with nato in bosnia on the ground. eu missions there and in macedonia are training police. we are also training iraqi police and judiciary. we have two european missions in the democratic republic of the congo. we are assisting the african union force in sudan. so, today, the european security and defence policy is not a piece of paper: it is making a real difference to thousands of lives across the globe. i want the united kingdom’s presidency – and the years ahead – to be a time in which we build on these achievements and further strengthen the european union’s influence and power as a force for good in the world. nowhere is that more important than in africa. africa today is poorer than it was 25 years ago. half of the population south of the sahara lives on less than a dollar a day. africa’s share of world trade is one third of its level in 1980. the total national income of sub-saharan african countries is less than the developed world – the eu, the united states, japan and a few other countries – spend on farming subsidies. a major breakthrough is needed if we are to achieve the millennium development goals. at the current pace, it will take sub-saharan africa more than 100 years to meet the targets for primary! education or reducing infant mortality. for three of the goals – those for hunger, poverty and sanitation – the situation in sub-saharan africa is getting worse day by day. meanwhile, life expectancy in africa today is just 42, less than the age of most people in this chamber. it is predicted that in some african countries life expectancy will be under 30 in five years’ time. twenty million africans have already died of aids, now the continent’s biggest killer. three-quarters of those living with hiv worldwide are in africa. nelson mandela said: ‘like slavery and apartheid, poverty is not natural. it is man-made and can be overcome and eradicated by the actions of human beings’. mandela was right. africa has all too many examples of how the actions of human beings prevent other human beings from building better lives for themselves. in darfur – as hilary benn, my colleague and friend, the secretary of state for international development in the united kingdom – and i have both seen for ourselves, the government-backed militia has killed many thousands of people. millions have had to flee their homes. in zimbabwe, the government has already trampled over democracy and basic human rights and has ruined an economy that was once amongst the strongest in the whole of africa. the government in zimbabwe has now turned on the poorest and the most vulnerable in that country, driving hundreds of thousands from their homes and destroying their livelihoods. the problem of zimbabwe is not one of intrinsic lack of resources or of climate but one of very bad governance. the european union has been right to send a firm message that the government of zimbabwe’s behaviour is wholly unacceptable. we have done so through new extended and restrictive measures against the mugabe regime, and through a firm condemnation of the latest abuses. but amongst all this gloom, let us remember that the picture in africa is far more complex than it at first appears. in the 1970s you could count the democracies of africa on the fingers of one hand and still have two fingers left: there were three. today there are more than thirty democratically elected governments across the continent. only a few years ago, armed conflicts were ablaze across africa, but today sustainable peace is taking root in countries such as burundi, liberia, sierra leone and angola. the organisation of african unity used to preach non-interference in its members’ internal affairs. in contrast, its successor, the new african union, is founded not on non-interference but on non-indifference. it is taking as its inspiration what the european union has been able to achieve in a continent that was once itself characterised not by the peace and stability we now enjoy, but by conflict, war and bloodshed. through the new partnership for africa’s development, nepad, african leaders have agreed to a peer review mechanism which many developed world governments, many governments in europe, would find uncomfortably intrusive. nor is the economic situation in africa as uniformly negative as it sometimes seems. some countries, such as mozambique and ethiopia, have achieved growth rates of around 7%, a level sufficient to lift large numbers of people out of poverty. the continent has enormous resources, both physical and human, and these positive factors should give us real cause for hope. africans want a better future and we in europe, with our international partners, must continue to deliver the support to enable reform in africa to take root and in turn help africans to change the situation for the better. so we have made this year a year of action and we have already achieved a great deal. last month’s european council is currently famous for its disagreements on the european union budget, but i suggest that our children will better remember it as the council which decided to double european aid to africa over the next five years. that was the enduring legacy of that council and, with luck and work, the temporary problems over the european budget will indeed be temporary. we are also resolved to make that aid better coordinated and more effective, building on the agreements made at the oecd meeting in paris this spring. we have to ensure that the aid does not compound bad governance and enrich the corrupt, but rather that it is used to drive up standards of governance and help the poorest, for whom it is intended. the g8 has agreed 100% debt relief for all highly indebted poor countries and the g8 leaders who assemble today in gleneagles and meet today and tomorrow will discuss further support. at the united nations summit in september, we are going to review the millennium development goals and strengthen international action to achieve them. however, we have to do more. under our presidency, the united kingdom will work to deliver a european strategy to support africa’s successful development. the strategy needs to be comprehensive and ambitious; it should go beyond financial support and show how africa will invest in people, in good governance, in growth, peace and security. as part of this strategy, we have to deliver better access to developed markets for the world’s poorest countries, so as to make the doha development agenda a reality, and we should start with this december’s meeting in hong kong. the european union, the united states and other rich countries must honour their commitments to abolish export subsidies and do so to a clear and explicit timetable. we have to recognise, too, the central importance of peace and stability in africa. already there are thousands of refugees in darfur who are safer. why? thanks to financing from the european union peace facility for the african union’s mission there. through the facility, we can increase our support further by supporting the african union and organisations like the economic community of west african states, ecowas, which itself has played such an important role in tackling conflict in west africa. the peace facility really has been a success, but the money allocated to it is running out and we need to agree adequate long-term funding for it. as africa’s leaders themselves have recognised, europe can help by promoting better and more democratic governance in africa. to return to the issue of zimbabwe, i greatly welcome the european parliament’s calls for action on elections and rigorous enforcement of european union sanctions. the joint eu-acp parliamentary assembly has been a strong supporter of better governance in african states, as well as those in the caribbean and pacific. the cotonou agreement allows us to suspend aid in the worst cases. we should not only remain prepared to use that provision but, i suggest, be far more proactive in monitoring progress on democracy and on governance. it is the people who have most to gain from democracy and better governance, the ordinary people in the acp countries in africa, who themselves are wanting us to make use of these mechanisms within agreements like the cotonou agreement. the great live 8 concerts that took place across europe and across the globe last weekend are still echoing in our ears. they and the wider interest generated by the g8 gleneagles meeting have hugely raised expectations in africa and in europe and across the developed world that this time the aid effort to africa will work. let us hope that it will. let us hope that the developed nations actually deliver the aid they are promising, but let us also understand this: the process will only work if governance in africa is improved and corruption there is cut down. in our action in africa and across the world, the european union can draw on three great strengths. firstly, the eu’s intrinsic power and influence. when we speak together we can set the international agenda. we are doing so on world trade, but i have seen that too in leading with javier solana, with joschka fischer and now with philippe douste-blazy in the difficult iran dossier. the strength of the european union when it is united is phenomenal. the strength we have is the strength of our global connections. there is hardly a country anywhere in the world that does not have some special tie of history or friendship with one or other of the european union’s member states. the latest enlargement, last may, added further to that network of partnership and trust and our global reach is mirrored in this parliament and in your strong international engagement. the eu is today building stronger relationships with neighbours such as russia and new strategic partners such as china and india, which are going to hold such important summits with the eu during our presidency. obviously we will wield greater influence with such strategic partners when we act together. the third, and perhaps most important, strength is the strength of the european union’s values. soft power in foreign policy has been defined as making others want what we want. the european union’s enlargement is one of the most striking and powerful examples of that soft power in action. the magnetic pull of the eu’s success, its values and institutions, have helped to transform first southern, then central and eastern europe and the prospect of eu membership is now spreading reform and stability to turkey and across the western balkans. others here perhaps know the western balkans better than i do, but all of us who know the western balkans know that in reality the only thing that is helping to push those divided communities towards some prospect of peace and security is the european union, its values and its strength. the june european union council recognised this in reaffirming its intention that the eu should fully implement its existing commitments on enlargement, including opening negotiations with turkey on 3 october. meanwhile, our neighbourhood policy is helping to promote our values further to the east and to the south, including to ukraine and to the mediterranean countries, with which we will also host summits during the uk presidency. those values are the bedrock of the transatlantic relationship, the world’s greatest alliances of liberal democracies, essential in tackling the global challenges of the future from terrorism and proliferation to poverty and climate change. through these assets – our own strength, our global connections and the power of our values – the european union today has even greater potential to increase its strength as a force for good across the world. i look forward to working with you all towards that goal during our presidency. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, when i applied for the development and humanitarian aid portfolio, i knew that africa would be at the heart of my action and commitment. a commitment inspired by a sense of indignation and urgency: africa remains, even today, isolated from the world, on the fringes of our consciousness and far from the benefits of globalization. it is also based on the rational recognition that the context has changed and that the opportunity is now emerging, perhaps unique, to make africa a more prosperous, stable and better governed continent. in this context, europe can and must make a difference, because today we can create the conditions for poverty eradication and there are no longer any excuses for not doing so. africa has changed. the africans themselves have decided to turn their backs on fate and take their destiny into their own hands. the energetic and effective action of the african union in darfur, togo and côte d'ivoire, for example, has given a new dimension to the principle that african responses to african crises must be found. this action, based on strong regional organisations, opens up new and hitherto unforeseen prospects for peace, stability and security. moreover, the african union is supported by strong leadership that is now outlining a promising vision. if africa has changed, so has europe. europe is increasingly asserting itself as the spokesman for a world of greater solidarity, more justice and a more multilateral system. in 2005, the year of development, europe must make its voice heard as the leading donor of development aid and can, in this capacity, push the international community towards a concrete and voluntary approach which would prevent the millennium development goals from soon becoming synonymous with broken promises. i am also very pleased to note that the european council - as i have just said - has followed the commission's proposal, which will effectively double official development aid by 2015 and double aid to africa by 2010. finally, the world has changed. the events of recent years have shown us how the existence of failing states can be a source of instability, can create safe havens for terrorists and criminals. the intensification of globalisation at all levels also makes it necessary to intensify solidarity. i believe that development policy is now the preferred instrument for humanizing globalisation. i can't think of a better one. what is unique about globalization is that it did not, as some would have us believe, come about through a political decision hidden in a shelter somewhere. globalization has not been truly orchestrated; it is a spontaneous process, welcomed by some, feared by others, but over which, and this is the point, no authority, whether national or international, seems to have direct control. i am sure there are those who believe that it can do a lot and that it has many more advantages than disadvantages. the intensification of globalisation at all levels must of course be met by the intensification of solidarity at all levels. what does globalization mean for people who don't have access to water, for young people who don't have access to education, for children who are dying of diseases that we could cure? while some may dream of a return to models that unfortunately flourish in the déjà vu, i think it would be wrong to believe that people do not want globalization or that they want to go backwards. what we europeans want is a globalisation that benefits everyone, that is a positive lever for all humanity, without exclusion. in this context, nothing is more urgent than making globalisation work in africa and for africa. it is true that the liberalisation of markets in this context is only virtuous where the state has the capacity to enact rules to contain deviations from them and to ensure that the general interest is respected. as you know, to take advantage of the opportunities offered by globalization, governments need to ensure a macroeconomic framework. they must also create the effective and predictable conditions for this macroeconomic framework and must of course also ensure governance in a framework favourable to economic activity. they must also encourage and support a vigilant civil society that ensures a fair and balanced redistribution of wealth and other services such as access to justice, administration, health and education. from this point of view, and particularly for africa, i believe that a very special, focused effort must be made in the fight for equality between men and women. for all these reasons, i think it is useful to define a common european strategy. not just for development, but also for africa, a strategy that can respond to the new geopolitical situation in africa; we are also working on a strategy with our african partners to capitalise on this new momentum globally. the african union has become a key political partner, a real engine of change for the continent. at the same time, i think it is worth pointing out that this construction cannot stand on its own. the house of the african union must be built on solid regional building blocks. there will be no continental integration without a strong, ambitious and recognised regional organisation. an ambitious political partnership between the european union and the african union is therefore more necessary than ever. what should this wedding be about? i do not have an exhaustive answer, but i will limit myself to four possibilities which i would like to propose as working hypotheses. you know that i will come at the end of the year with not only a statement on development, an update of the development policy which we will of course have discussed and will discuss together, but also a real master plan for africa. the first is governance. the primacy of governance, which is obviously not contested by anyone, as we have said, africa is not poor, it is unfortunately badly governed. and yet, africa is starting to move. governance efforts are being made at different levels. over the past five years, more than two-thirds of sub-saharan african countries have had multiparty elections, some more free and fair than others, and several changes of government have taken place in a democratic and peaceful manner: most recently, the elections in burundi. i hope that in the drc in march we will also be able to make significant progress. i would also like to recall that 23 african countries have ratified the statute establishing the international criminal court. it is good to say that, although some of the democratic powers in the west have not yet done so. the most striking fact of recent years is that africa has given itself a vision, a mission and principles. in terms of governance, this fact, embodied in the institution of the african union and reflected in the vision of nepad, represents a break with the past and the practices of the past. this vision and these principles have not remained at the declarations of intent stage, since with the african peer review mechanism, africa now has a unique tool to accompany africans by africans. this mechanism deserves our full support. the second axis is infrastructure and networks. we will all agree that without trans-african networks, without infrastructure, there will be no development. the european union itself is proof of this. the european union has shown the relevance of this reality. increased efforts are needed to improve and ensure the sustainability of infrastructure networks and to accelerate growth and promote trade. the commission therefore proposes to develop a europe-africa partnership plan on infrastructure and networks. through this partnership we will support the development of trans-african networks which are essential for interconnectivity and the flow of knowledge on the continent, trans-european telecommunications networks, railways, airlines, infrastructure for de-icing, which are also very important: ports, airports, waterways, everything related to energy and water. in parallel with this infrastructure partnership, we should innovate in terms of financing mechanisms based on the participation of the private sector and other donors. i shall come back to this in the statement on the edf in a few months' time. thirdly, of course, trade. all actors recognise the central role of trade in economic growth. africa's share of global exports has fallen by almost 60%, which corresponds to a loss of $70 billion a year, or the equivalent of 21% of the region's gdp, more than five times the $13 billion that returns to africa each year through development aid. we obviously have to reverse this trend. as you know, we are currently negotiating economic partnership agreements with six regions, four of which are in sub-saharan africa. peter mandelson, the trade commissioner, is negotiating these deals. this is without doubt the most ambitious trade process ever negotiated between the north and the south. for the first time, the european union is financially supporting the negotiating effort of its partners. for the first time, trade agreements are being negotiated with the sole objective of developing our partners. for the first time, these agreements are based on and for the regional integration of our partners and for the first time our financial and technical cooperation can be used for reforms, budget support, actions to improve the capacity to increase supply, the construction of an attractive environment for investment and trade. the last axis is culture. culture is a key dimension of development which, in my view, has been far too often neglected. yet it is vital. culture is the soul and expression of a people; it determines the functioning of a society and therefore also its economic structure. it is therefore only by taking account of the social and cultural specificities of africa in its richness and diversity that we can, in my view, make development aid more effective. i would like to conclude, mr president, by raising a number of questions which would be desirable to discuss. i heard about sanctions. it seems to me that sanctions are only virtuous when they affect the perpetrators, the responsible ones. i do not believe in sanctions, however, as long as they affect the people directly or indirectly. it would be useful to open this debate. i think we also need to discuss the famous question of ownership or appropriation. how can we best ensure that the people themselves take ownership of their destiny and development? the appropriation goes hand in hand with the principle of perpetuation. how can the effects of ongoing programmes and projects be sustained when outside operators leave the field? the question also arises as to whether budgetary support should be preferred to project-based support and under what conditions. this question will probably be discussed at the end of the year, as will coherence and coordination. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the framework has been quickly established for giving answers to a subject as vast and important as the one you have put on the agenda. we will of course have the opportunity to return to these questions before the end of the year in the context of the new policy and in the context of this focus on africa. i would like to express my optimism. optimism firstly because a number of assets are combined: the fact that the british presidency has really put africa at the top of the agenda of the european union, that it has also put it at the top of the agenda of the g8; the fact that today there is a strong consensus developing that we will not achieve the millennium development goals globally, or individually, unless we make a very big effort on africa and quickly. i would say that we must do more, we must do better, and we must do it faster. we will try to do that. i have no doubt that parliament will be the vigilant guardian of these promises. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, for socialists, the eradication of poverty in the world is an absolute priority, because it is a question of justice and solidarity, both of which are fundamental to our ideological and political identity. justice and solidarity are part of our contribution to the process that has led us to the european union, but in the globalised world in which the union must operate, justice and solidarity cannot be understood as being for the exclusive benefit of our citizens and our territory. on the contrary, it is time for justice and solidarity to transcend our borders and to mark all european policies and actions on the international stage, as enshrined in the constitutional treaty. the socialists in the committee on development welcome two facts which are in line with what we have been calling for in this committee. the first is that the may council of ministers on development should confirm important commitments to achieve the millennium development goals, keeping them within the terms set five years ago. the second is the priority given by the british presidency to the eradication of poverty, with particular emphasis on africa. this seems to us justified, but it cannot exclude the fight against poverty in other parts of the world where there are tremendous pockets of misery and where inequalities even greater than on the african continent also require our priority action. with the bracelet happening, with this debate and with the resolution we are going to adopt, we are tuning in to what millions of europeans are doing these days throughout the union. we have recently discussed the disagreement between european officials and bodies and our citizens. now this anti-poverty mobilization is a great opportunity for coincidence, closeness and reconciliation, but, look! the effect will be positive only if we do not betray the trust placed in us, beyond words and good intentions. as far as poverty eradication is concerned, we will be judged more by what we do in the future, and sooner rather than later, than by what we say here and now. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the precarious situation of many african countries should be a source of great shame in the public mind. we must make sure that world hunger is a thing of the past. but how? in recent years it has become clear that the problem is often not the quantity of development aid but how to channel that aid to achieve the best results. we should systematically work for more transparency and more democracy in as many african countries as possible. we should strive for a public where freedom of expression is at the top of the agenda, and these countries should invest very decisively in education. without these measures, development aid risks being morally acceptable but ineffective in practice. we can all ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, it has been a quarter of a century since willy brandt presented his report on north-south relations. since then, the problem of poverty has not only not been solved but, in many cases, has worsened. in fact, the latest report on world poverty shows that there is only some progress in china, in some countries in south-east asia and in some specific cases in latin america. in africa the data are disconsolatory, so we must welcome this british initiative, which is not opportunistic in my opinion - it was already announced, at least two years ago, by minister straw and his prime minister. after 40 years, dozens of wars and millions of deaths have left the african continent exhausted. there are no magic recipes in the fight against poverty and we have only two certain facts: firstly, poverty, contrary to what some people think, is not an economic but a political problem, and its solution requires, first and foremost, political decisions; secondly, to succeed, economic growth must be ensured - without growth, there is no wealth to distribute. from there, these days we hear millions of voices around the world calling for the application of the classic recipes: increased official development assistance, debt forgiveness and fair trade. these are three necessary but insufficient measures. political and social leaders in poverty-stricken countries must demand much more, especially in terms of strengthening civil society - their societies - transparency and good governance, which can increase investment in health, education and gender policies. in africa there are more than 100,000 armed children, whose faces some of us have known. if we are to make progress on the target of halving poverty by 2015, these points i have outlined are on the line that must lead us to success.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking you for giving me this opportunity to respond to the debate that my colleague jack straw opened this morning. nobody listening to this debate could fail to hear the great expertise, knowledge, passion and commitment of all the members who have spoken. it seems to me that your voices represent the voices of those that we together have the honour to represent. i am very much looking forward, through the uk presidency, to working with the committee on development and to addressing the committee next week. mrs morgantini was right: this is not about charity but justice. it is a cry for justice that is symbolised – as mr martínez martínez pointed out – by the white band. the white tide that marched in edinburgh last weekend is a symbol. the people who attended the live 8 concerts and the people who write to us, their elected representatives, and demand that we do more are all expressing the feeling that now is the time to act – a point made by mrs martens and by mr bowis. i congratulate his mother on her 100th birthday. he is right: she has lived a long time; she has seen a lot of change happen. we simply cannot afford to allow africa to continue to drift away from the rest of the world. mr schulz, who has spoken just now with such passion, reminds us that it is the responsibility of every single one of us. there has never been a time, in my political experience, when this debate about africa, poverty, its causes and what we can do about it has been so much at the centre of our politics. it seems to me that the message that we are being sent by those we represent is very simple: they look to us to act and they want to have faith in the capacity of the political process to deliver real change on behalf of africa and of development. it is morally unacceptable that this great continent of 54 countries, only a few miles from europe, should drift away from us and should be the only part of the world to become poorer in the last 25 years. now we have the means to do something about it. the challenge that europe faces will be to turn the passion, commitment and anger – the feelings people have – into practical action that will make a difference. i agree with all those who have called for the eu strategy on africa to be the means by which we use our politics to make a real differe! nce. i look forward to working with mr michel, as he draws that up. i hope very much that we can make progress on it. (applause) i would now like to turn to the practical steps we need to take. what are the issues we need to address in the eu africa strategy? the first point to make – if i may disagree with one of the speakers, mr farage – is that aid works, aid saves children’s lives. (applause)that is why we need more of it. that is why the leadership that europe showed, when we met as development ministers over a month ago, in agreeing to double europe’s aid to africa, was europe at its best. this was europe demonstrating its leadership in the world and that we are prepared and willing and will do the things that we know will make a difference. that is the first point. the second point is debt relief, which many speakers have referred to. the real importance of debt relief is that it means that poor countries no longer have to make that terrible choice between, on the one hand, making the monthly repayments that they cannot afford and, on the other, spending the money they want to on doctors, on nurses, on getting children into school, on buying the drugs that will save children’s and adults’ lives. thirdly, every one of us recognises that it is ultimately trade, economic development and economic growth that will enable africa and the rest of the developing world to transform the lives of their people. it is how we did it here in europe. it is how we transformed our societies from 500 years ago, when life expectancy was very short, when there was enormous poverty and when very few people went to school. the people of africa want exactly the same opportunity: to earn and to trade their way out of poverty to a better future. (applause) there are two other truths that we have to tell in this debate. two-and-a-half weeks ago i was in sudan, first of all in rumbek, in the south of sudan, where one in four children die before they are five years of age and three-quarters of the adults cannot read. the experience in darfur and southern sudan has taught us one very important lesson: unless there is peace and stability, there will be no development; unless people stop fighting each other, the people of africa will not have a better future. that is why europe must continue to show leadership and provide support to the african union, building the capacity of africa to tackle its own conflicts. as my friend jack straw said in opening this debate, there are now fewer conflicts in africa than there were a decade ago and, where there is peace and stability, there is a real prospect of hope for a better future. the final thing that needs to happen, mr president, if progress is to be made, is that there should be good governance because if, in the end, governments are to deliver for their people ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
mr. minister, your time is not limited. you can talk as long as you want. the problem is that i was calling the attention of the members to please join the house in silence. it is all right that you have not attended the debate, but please, when you do, do it in a way that does not disturb it.
president-in-office of the council. thank you very much, mr president, for your concern. it is less important that you hear my voice, but it is important that the world outside hears all of our voices. if we speak as one and we speak loudly, we have a better chance of making progress in this great global fight. (loud applause)in the end, people look to governments to do things for them. we look to our governments to provide us with peace and security, to educate our children, to look after us when we are sick, to give us the opportunity to build a living for ourselves and our families. in developing countries the real challenge is to build the capacity of societies to do for them and their communities exactly what we look to government to do in europe. in the end it is about governments with a capacity to deliver and about people who have the expectation that government might be able to improve their lives. when those two things come together – when the voices of the people are heard – then societies have a better chance of making real progress. in the end, it is about political will and political choice. that is what politics is for: how we decide what kind of world it is that we want to live in; where we are going to spend the money; what decisions we are going to make on trade to allow developing countries to have a better future. we happen to be the generation on whom this responsibility has now fallen. as british prime minister tony blair said at the launch of the commission for africa: ‘if not us, then who? if not now, then when?’ we are the generation that has the capacity to act. now is the time to act. let us work together; let us seize this opportunity and, by our action as europe, assist africa to build a better future that it can pass on to the generation to come. (loud and sustained applause)
thank you very much, mr. benn. i apologize for having to interrupt you.
thank you, mr. schulz, for helping the presidency. before i give the floor to the commission, i would ask everyone to take their seats. members who are still in the chamber dealing with their personal matters will be asked by the ushers to leave the chamber. i would ask the members who are still in the corridors to leave the chamber. mr tannock, on the basis of which article are you asking to speak? would you be so kind as to sit down and shut up, please?
you're all extraordinarily upset today. let me tell you that your attitude is shameful in relation to the subject we are dealing with this morning. (applause) may i ask all members who are wandering down the aisles to sit down or at least not to have conversations which disturb the order of business?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs morgantini for the debate she has had the good sense to organise today. the debate highlighted one thing first: there was an extremely strong consensus and support for the choice of africa as the focal point of development policy. i think this is extremely important, since this is the choice made by parliament, the commission and the council. of course, this does not mean that we no longer care about the other poor people in the world. no, i'm not worried. it simply means that more than half of the increase in development aid will actually go to africa, to make up the shortfall. the second point i take from this debate is that everything contributes to the development, the definition and the elaboration of a genuine european strategy for development, and for africa in particular, a strategy articulated around the major development issues: governance, infrastructure, debt. for example, someone said that the debt issue would not solve everything. we know that. the debt issue is important, but it is not a development tool. the debt problem, the settlement of the debt, is obviously not a guarantee of effective development. but it's an interesting prelude. the implementation of social policies in the wake of the emergence of a dynamic civil society, the implementation of social policies of access to justice, access to education, access to health, access to culture too - as i have said before - is an important element. i believe that all this must feed into a comprehensive strategy, a comprehensive plan and a concrete programme which we will have to implement. i can tell you right now that i fully appreciate the difficulty we are about to face. and the difficulty is that once we have that program, we're going to have to have extremely strong leadership on the bureaucracies that are going to have to implement that program. i am counting on the support of both parliament and the council and we will do everything in our power at commission level to get things moving. i think it is extremely important that we can achieve some tangible results. i think that after all the promises that have been made, all the very credible prospects that are available, all the assets that today contribute to this strong hope, it will be necessary to provide rapid and concrete proof that things are progressing in relation to what has been planned. another point i would like to highlight, particularly in relation to africa, is the particularly important role of all gender equality policies on this continent. this is an aspect of the problem that we do not address often enough and i would really like to give it a cross-cutting dimension, because there are solutions to be found, opportunities to be exploited. i am thinking of business, of commerce. i think about microcredit, the empowerment of women that this form of credit allows: it's an important cultural element. that is what i wanted to say to you in a few words, ladies and gentlemen. i just wanted to say, as hilary benn and jack straw have done, that now is the time to act. it's up to us to do it. i don't think we have any excuses anymore. it has been said and repeated, and i believe that we can no longer postpone this challenge and the encounter, in fact, between action and this strong hope that lives in the hearts of the people. it has been said that it would be a good thing if, on the basis of this development policy, this new impetus, we could give a new impetus to the magical sense of the european idea. i believe that europe can make development, and is already making development the most concrete projection of its values, and that is why i am so optimistic. (applause) i would like to thank
if you wish to raise a point of order, you must start by quoting the article to which it refers.
on the basis of article 90 you cannot intervene. to close this debate, we have received six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, if we have grouped all the structural funds together, we should logically now vote on the casa report on the european fisheries fund.
mr president, i think that explains itself. i would like the friends of the green group to accept this amendment, which simply takes note of a statement and does not endorse it fully without our having a precise and detailed knowledge of the report to which they refer.
mr president, this is to echo a concern of another group: instead of talking about 300 million, or 315 million, or 400 million people who are hungry in the world, we can say 'more than 300 million'. i think that avoids giving an exact figure, as other colleagues wanted.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, china does indeed play a key role in european foreign policy and trade policy. that is why it is so important that the european union ensures that its policy towards china contributes to improving social, environmental and human rights standards and that it does not jeopardise regional stability and security. in this context, i agree that some of the recent actions of the chinese authorities, such as the adoption of the anti-secession law in relation to taiwan, are worrying. it should also be remembered that the european union will only be able to accept an agreement between china and taiwan if it is the result of a peaceful dialogue between the parties and, above all, if it is respectful of the democratic progress made by taiwan. on the other hand, as has also been said, the arms embargo must be kept intact, at least until there is a significant advance in human rights, including the situation in tibet, until there is sufficient clarity on what happened in tiananmen and, from my point of view, until the european union code of conduct becomes legally binding. i would therefore urge the council representative to welcome the adoption of a legally binding statute for the code of conduct this august, which would be very welcome in this house.
president-in-office of the council. the council regards the case of luis posada carriles as a bilateral matter between venezuela and the united states. the council would like to remind the honourable member, moreover, that the case of posada’s deportation is still sub judice and that the united states authorities have not officially rejected a formal venezuelan request for extradition. without prejudice to the outcome of the posada case, it should be noted, however, that the european union condemns all acts of terrorism regardless of their target or motivation. in the european council declaration on combating terrorism of 25 march 2004, the union and its member states pledged to do everything within their power to combat all forms of terrorism in accordance with the fundamental principles of the union, the provisions of the charter of the united nations and the obligations set out under united nations security council resolution 1373. in this context, the council recalls that all eu member states are party to the montreal convention for the suppression of unlawful acts against the safety of civilian aviation, which makes it an offence to endanger the safety of an aircraft in flight and requires states that have custody of offenders either to extradite the offender or submit the case for prosecution.
mr president, this case is causing great social alarm because, apart from the fact that it is a bilateral problem between venezuela and the united states of america, they should not give the impression of protecting and sheltering people accused of terrorist crimes, even when it is a question of people linked to their intelligence services, as is the case of mr posadas, who was indeed on the payroll of the cia. in a way i welcome your reply, because it raises the need for no such heinous crime of terrorism to remain without a fair sentence.
i would like to thank not only mrs isler béguin but also mrs lienemann, the other shadow rapporteurs and the officials and advisers who have been working very hard to ensure that this project is consensual. the unanimity we have achieved in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has been extraordinary: everyone has put forward their views and, although there are apparently not many amendments, a new spirit has been introduced, the life programme has been enriched, in collaboration with the commission. and how did he get rich? i think we have introduced a number of new aspects. firstly, there has been a strong emphasis on natural resource management in this project. this project is of great pedagogical importance for teaching environmental governance and management. in addition, the institutional presence has been emphasized, that is, the municipalities and regions as local authorities who have, precisely, to revalue their resources. and in this connection i would also like to highlight another element: the introduction of landscapes worthy of respect which have not been integrated into the natura 2000 list, such as some rivers, but which can be important shared spaces. and there is also another novelty: the concept has been introduced and the idea of international projects and cross-border projects has been reinforced. why would you do that? because natural areas are often precisely in border areas, high in the mountains; the case of rivers is very clear: it is logical that one day a life could be made of a river, because rivers cross many countries. i should also like to say something else: we have created a market spirit for natura 2000. we believe that in this case we should follow the american policy of creating wetland banks, natural area banks, so that the states can compensate the owners by creating a kind of ownership exchange area for the natura 2000 area. and in this way, companies and many others who have to take initiatives on the territory will also be able to contribute financially to compensate, under the 'polluter pays' principle, for their passage through these protected territories with active, positive policies for the conservation of the natural environment, financed by private entities and institutions. so this is not just another life programme, it's a consensual project guided, i think, by a great deal of common sense, and for that i congratulate everyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my group is very proud and pleased today with the report that has been so well handled by the rapporteur, mrs isler béguin, and with all those who have enriched it with their good work. the co-decision procedure is our strength and it is inspired by the need to achieve the environmental objectives which the european union has always claimed as a priority. the report does not ask for the impossible. the commission is no more aware than this parliament of the difficulties which the financial perspective presents us with, but if i may be frank, i think there are solutions which can be found through good will and determination, as in this case. perhaps an increase in funding for the network should also be accompanied by a better redistribution of the necessary resources. of course, commissioner, they don't have to pay for sinners. for example, we cannot continue to ask andalusian rural operators to tighten their belts any more, both for the maintenance of the network from their legitimate responsibility as farmers and for very specific and necessary actions, such as the conservation of the iberian lynx. the commission will remember better than i do the illusion with which the natura 2000 network was launched. since then we have seen a hopeful process with legislation and programmes that made our environmental priorities a reality. all this investment of resources and illusion cannot come down now. life+ must be a powerful guarantee for maintaining and strengthening what we have built so far, also with regard to habitats and our species. in this sense, and without calling into question the legitimacy of the co-financing, no one can deny that the maintenance of the network entails - and must therefore be - high costs for some members and, in particular, for spain. my country, together with denmark, has the largest protected area and, moreover, 29% of this area is in my community, andalusia. sometimes, commissioner, you have to make an effort, gamble and be brave. i encourage you to continue to invest in environmental protection. it's worth it.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to say that peter mandelson is not here for very good reasons, which are also connected with this matter. he was obliged to attend bilateral meetings in britain, where he had the opportunity to meet a number of extremely important ministers, particularly in the context of the wto negotiations to be held in hong kong. his absence from these meetings would have deprived us of certain opportunities to defend the priorities you have set out here. you know that these negotiations are of direct interest to the textile sector. so i would really like to ask you to kindly excuse this absence, it's really for urgent reasons. it was really helpful that he was at those meetings. that said, i would like to thank mrs saifi for her excellent report and i welcome the draft resolution. it supports the commission's efforts to help the european textile and clothing sector also meet the challenges posed by the abolition of quotas since january 2005. it is clear that our objective is to mitigate the impact of a historic trade liberalization agreement, which was reached exactly ten years ago. we all agree that the european union's trade policy must guarantee the sector the best possible environment and conditions to enable it to compete on equal terms. the changes in the regulatory and business environment should encourage us to look aggressively to the future, to find new business opportunities and to create markets rather than simply seeking to protect ourselves from competition in the internal market. i shall now turn to the main trade issues raised in the draft resolution. as regards chinese imports, i shall first refer to the eu-china agreement of 10 june 2005. after months of negotiations, we are pleased to have reached an agreement with china which ensures more moderate growth in imports in the main product categories. this gives european industry an additional two and a half years to continue its reorganization and adaptation. the broad support from member states for the commission's approach indicates that a negotiated agreement was indeed the best way to deal with the influx of chinese imports for a number of reasons. first, most eu products are covered, i.e. about half of the imported products that were liberalised in january 2005. secondly, there is only a marginal difference between the agreed quantities and what the mechanical application of the safeguard clause would have produced if it had been implemented. it must be understood that there was really no other solution. a case-by-case application of safeguard measures would have been economically destabilising and politically very difficult. the agreement will bring greater clarity, certainty and credibility to businesses on both sides (producers, exporters, importers and retailers) and will help textile exports from developing countries and the mediterranean to europe. this agreement is therefore in the interests of both parties. the question of our restraint on future safeguard actions and other products remains. the european union has not renounced its legal rights, but it is clear that we have entered into a transaction. we do not rule out future action if it is really justified. therefore, close monitoring will be maintained. we must now concentrate our attention on the interests of the european union, interests which we will defend in an offensive manner, in textiles, market access, intellectual property, the euro-mediterranean area, rules of origin and origin labelling. the action plan on market access, discussed by the high level group on 14 june 2005, should be formally approved and implemented with a focus on intellectual property issues. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. customs duties should be reduced in the wto. they should be set at the lowest possible level for ldcs and vulnerable developing countries. non-tariff barriers should be effectively addressed: this is a key objective of the wto negotiations on market access for non-agricultural products; the commission has also proposed that the tariff reductions envisaged by the european union would be acceptable if a significant number of countries, ideally to reach a critical mass, offered comparable counterparts in terms of market access. the commission is considering proposals on origin marking and labelling. these proposals will make it possible to provide both appropriate information and guarantees on the origin of the clothing and to avoid placing an unnecessary burden on businesses. the new generalised system of preferences, which offers preferential access to developing countries, was adopted on 27 june and will enter into force on 1 january 2006. a specific safeguard clause for clothing was introduced. it excludes any country with an annual export growth of more than 20%. this clause is the only concession in a comprehensive stability agreement, which is in force until the end of 2008. china has been excluded and the status quo is maintained for india. as regards the reform of the preferential rules of origin, the commission will carry out an impact assessment in the most sensitive sectors, including the textile and clothing sector. we need to measure the effects of change on the industry of the european union and on the developing partner countries. i now turn to the euro-mediterranean area. we share your desire to establish a genuine euro-mediterranean area in which goods can move freely and are exempt from customs duties. since the 1970s, textile products have entered the eu market duty-free and, at the same time, the mediterranean countries have gradually abolished customs duties on eu exports. the competitiveness of the euromed textile industry depends less on customs duties than on asian competition, on the preferences granted by the european union to asian countries through the gsp, on the relaxation of preferential rules of origin and on unfair competition caused by lax observance of labour law in china. while the council was delayed in adopting the cumulation of origin, every effort is being made to speed up the procedure and ensure that it enters into force in autumn 2005. conclusions: member states have strongly supported the agreement with china; the industry has been granted an additional transition period to improve its competitiveness both internationally and domestically; the commission will follow up this programme of positive action regularly and in depth with a view to securing the future of the european textile and clothing sector. as regards your request for regular information, the commission will keep parliament regularly informed of the implementation of its initiatives. that said, i am not going to promise you a report every three months, but i think it would be quite reasonable for a report to be presented to parliament on a regular basis.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i thank mrs saïfi for the work she has done on this report. the proposal we are putting to the house today expresses concern at the difficult situation facing the european textile sector and also envisages concrete measures to enable it to meet the enormous challenge it faces. firstly, we believe that reciprocity is essential. in other words, we want a level playing field for all, transparency in market access and respect for social and environmental rights for all. but secondly, we ask for concrete support to speed up the restructuring of companies: to gain competitiveness and to secure their future in the new global framework. we are committed to restructuring the sector, which must be promoted at all levels, european, national and regional, and which must be based on social and institutional dialogue. we need to solve the underlying problems by means of a modern industrial policy. the resolution therefore calls on the commission and the member states to develop a european strategy for textiles and clothing aimed at improving quality-adding processes, making innovative and technologically advanced products, giving special importance to the brand, increasing efforts in the commercial field, including new economy techniques and continuing vocational training. to achieve these objectives, a european textile plan will be needed, including restructuring aid and specific resources under union funds. two instruments should make a decisive contribution to tackling the future of the sector: the launch of a european technology platform which will make it possible to create a coordinated strategy in the field of research and the access of the sector to the seventh framework programme, in accordance with its own characteristics, such as the large presence of smes. european textiles are renowned throughout the world for their quality and design, they have proved their adaptability and now, if they receive the urgent support they need in the face of the profound changes they are facing, we can say that they have a future.
honourable members, in the last hour, reports have reached me of what now appears to be a coordinated series of attacks on london’s transport system. explosions have been detonated on three buses and at four tube stations. deaths have already been confirmed, and many people have suffered terrible injuries. i do not yet have any specific figures, but we may have to deal with many deaths. reports of attacks are continuing, and they arrive every few minutes. on behalf of parliament i want to express our condolences to all those who are suffering the consequences of these barbaric acts. as president of parliament and a citizen of a country that experienced only last year the horror of this kind of multiple attack, i want to send, on behalf of us all, a message of solidarity to the british people. we all stand with you today. we will never let the atrocities of terrorism defeat the values of peace and democracy in europe. i ask you now to observe a minute’s silence. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
we continue the debate on the report by mrs saïfi, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the textile and clothing sector after 2005 [2004/2265 (ini) ] (a6-0193/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express, on behalf of the commission and on my own behalf, our sincere condolences to the victims and their families following the atrocious and barbaric acts that took place in london. i would also like to express my full solidarity with the british authorities. ladies and gentlemen, i note that, despite some inevitable and probably necessary criticisms, the general tone of the speeches is rather positive in relation to the commission's approach. this is already the case in the draft resolution, although some feel that we could go further, for example, in the area of social standards, protection vis-à-vis china or industrial conversion. i would like to go back to some of the concerns that have been expressed. the agreement with china is of concern to mr silva peneda, mr guerrero, mr caspary, mr allister and mrs martens, among others. i think mrs martens has the right answer to that. like most of those who follow these issues, she believes that the agreement with the chinese will give european industry a breathing space by 2008 and that this agreement is therefore good in itself. i would also like to point out that this agreement is strictly applied and that the quantities imported are strictly recorded under genuine self-limitation quotas. as regards the safeguard clauses provided for in china's act of accession to the wto, it should be noted that the european union has not formally renounced them, but it is clear that the agreement with the chinese is global and that it is precisely aimed at avoiding conflictual management of the sector on the basis of the abrupt measures constituted by these clauses. these clauses would therefore only be applied if they were really justified, which i do not think is the case, precisely because the agreement with china covers the most sensitive products, namely about half of the chinese textiles liberalised in january 2005. mr allister, whose overall assessment of the agreement i noted was positive, will understand that the framework of trade with china thus established no longer requires the anti-dumping measures he advocated. finally, i would like to reassure mr caspar that the agreement with china is helping to stabilise volumes, with a reasonable annual growth rate of 8 to 12%. it thus protects european producers but also stabilises supplies to importers until 2008. flexibility clauses are being considered in the context of the ongoing negotiations with the chinese to soften the restrictive measures to the benefit of importers. a word on the respect of social norms in developing countries. i will reply to mr silva peneda that although the european union and the commission are active in this area, the developing countries criticize us on this subject, interpreting these demands as disguised protectionism. so things are not always as simple as they seem. thus, developing countries make up the vast majority of ilo members and reject the link between trade and social standards. the commission is not giving up, however, and proposes to introduce, systematically in any negotiation of a preferential free trade agreement, a clause to withdraw preferences in the event of non-compliance with these standards. it also acts in a positive way. for example, the council followed suit on 27 june when we proposed new trade concessions to sri lanka because it had just ratified the eight core ilo conventions. the ban on child labour in exchange for the abolition of customs duties on exports to the european union is a fairly clear line. it is a question of linking multilateral trade negotiations with social standards, we cannot say what will be decided in hong kong in december, but we can already see the commission's very strong attachment to this link. my colleague, peter mandelson, in charge of trade, if he had been here this morning, would certainly have explained how he had made this point at a meeting held jointly with the ilo in turin on 26 may. in this area as in others, many concrete measures are possible, for example, a structure of partnership and social dialogue in the textile sector is being seriously considered with china. i now turn to the european union's trade policy priorities in response, among other things, to mr belder. the draft resolution provides, in particular, that priority should be given to the euro-mediterranean area, particularly in relation to asia. the commission broadly shares this view. the development of trade between the two shores of the mediterranean should help the development of this region and partly solve the serious problems common to the north and south of the area, such as immigration, well beyond the textile problems. there are other priorities: africa, i refer to the g8 meeting in scotland today, the ldcs, the poor countries of asia. the commission therefore agrees with mrs saïfi that a number of comparative advantages must be maintained in favour of those which the european union intends to favour. that is why, for example, it strongly supports the introduction of the pan-euro-mediterranean cumulation of origin, which is expected to be adopted by the council this autumn. i would also like to take this opportunity to ask parliament to help the commission to put pressure on the council to speed up the adoption of the protocols in question. finally, as regards trade preferences, it should be noted that the european union has withdrawn most of its trade preferences from china since this year. this negative priority is perfectly in keeping with the spirit of the draft resolution. mr zingaretti, in particular, referred to trade protection measures. if third countries subsidize their exports, there are answers. the european union has a whole arsenal of them at its disposal. there are anti-dumping duties or anti-subsidy measures, for example, a week ago the commission opened an anti-dumping investigation into certain types of chinese and indian shoes, we have talked about this, we are not here in the field of wishful thinking. these measures are taken very seriously by both countries, i can assure you. the european union has made progress on counterfeiting, which is a concern of mrs muscardini and which the commission shares. since july 2004, a new system has been in force which allows companies to apply for customs retention of goods which are likely to be counterfeit. it is a unified community procedure, free of charge and simple, because it is designed in part for small textile companies which represent - as one member of parliament rightly said - 90% of the sector. but above all, we must not go towards more integration of european customs for greater efficiency. a european customs code has existed since 1992, but it is applied by 25 national customs authorities, whose coordination is sometimes difficult. fraudsters often play on this situation. so much remains to be done in this area. in the field of intellectual property, which is a very sensitive subject in the textile industry, a real explosion of statistics has been recorded in recent years. i would like to remind you that china's accession to the wto now places china under obligations and also opens up to the european union the possibility of taking stronger action if china does not comply with its signature. i would therefore say to the representatives of the european left, who want the european union not to finance relocations, that we are in complete agreement. it should simply be noted that there is no such clause in any preferential trade agreement. i don't think we should suggest or let people say things that aren't true. mr calabuig rull and mr karim also spoke on the industrial restructuring of the textile sector. i think mr karim is right: european industry has been waiting for a miracle, urgently, from the commission since the beginning of 2005 and the liberalisation of chinese textiles. that has been said, but i would like to stress that the liberalisation was decided on ten years ago, in 1994. some member states have prepared for this. the textile crisis is not european, it only affects the member states which are not ready. it should also be remembered that industrial restructuring measures are largely a matter for the member states. in its area of competence, the commission has proposed to reserve part of the structural funds for sectors undergoing industrial conversion following crisis situations, such as the textile sector in particular, which is currently being discussed in the council. in december 2004, the commission, in particular commissioner potocnik, and euratex (i.e. the european textile and clothing organisation) announced an initiative known as the 'european textile technology platform' which aims, for example, to foster technological innovation to encourage upscaling in the face of chinese competition. it is true that the real victims of the liberalisation of the textile sector are, as mrs lucas has very well said, the poorest countries, the ldcs. and that's because they make low-tech products, like cotton t-shirts. europe has the means to upgrade and specialise in textile sectors. i am thinking of fabrics with very high technological content, where chinese competition is more limited. protection is temporarily necessary, but is innovation not the real solution? i regret that this resolution is not adopted today because, on behalf of the commission, i very much share the approach it proposes. a few more remarks. mr leichtfried and mrs toia say that these are good measures but that the commission could have reacted more quickly. the commission reacted within five months after verifying that there was indeed injury. there is no question of imposing quotas lightly on the chinese. mr romagnoli, i would like to repeat what i have just said. i challenge you to say by what specific mechanism would the commission encourage relocations? that's not true. mrs laperrouze welcomes the agreement, and i think she is right. as regards the high level group, a plan for the identification of trade restrictions was presented by the commission to the high level group on 14 june. it was presented by several commissioners, mr mandelson, mr verheugen and mrs saïfi was also present. as regards mr tajani's intervention on origin marking, the commission is preparing a draft regulation to make it compulsory for imports, but you should know that the member states are divided on this issue, which obviously hinders progress on this issue. as regards the reciprocity mentioned in mrs lienemann's speech, i agree, but it must be discussed in the wto. let me end with two small considerations that are not at all impertinent. one airbus is 20 million chinese shirts. it is good to think about this and to think about the fact that trade is not one-sided. trade works in all directions and sometimes, by focusing on one product, you can lose a lot on another. it was good to be reminded. i would also like to comment on the very ideological charge i have heard leveled against the liberal europe which is so much maligned. i just want to remind you that it is the one that has made peace possible, that has made the wealth created arguably better distributed and better shared here in europe than anywhere else. the collectivist or marxist europe, which some people are obviously nostalgic about, cannot, it seems to me, have the same record as the so-called liberal europe. as for freedom of association, since it was in the same verse, it is guaranteed everywhere in the liberal states. i have not yet seen it really assured in totalitarian states, even on the left. i say this simply because i am a liberal and it is good to be reminded of this from time to time.
that concludes the debate. the vote will take place in september. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr duarte freitas, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the union (com (2004) 0687 - c6-0201/2004 - 2004/0247 (cns)) (a6-0195/2005).
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr freitas for the work he has done as rapporteur, which i consider very satisfactory. i would also like to thank the commission of our union for the work it is doing for the benefit of the outermost regions. i think mr michel has made that very clear. it is a success story: over the last 14 or 15 years the outermost regions have benefited from special treatment under the poseidon, poseima and poseican programmes, which have enabled four million citizens, spread over islands in the central atlantic, the caribbean and the indian ocean, to enjoy a decent standard of living commensurate with their needs, and regions which used to export population to now maintain it and, in some cases, even import it. in other words, there has been a marked improvement in the living conditions in these regions. it has been done by a fairly reasonable procedure, which consists in allowing agricultural surpluses from the rest of the union to enter our territory and even allowing the importation of products to other parts of the world, and on the other hand preventing these imports, which are necessary to maintain living conditions, from destroying agriculture and other elements of the local economy. the commission's proposal is aimed at making the system we have in place more flexible. as the commissioner has said, 56 micro-measures were needed which did not really fit the nature of this type of organisation. the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development are aimed at making the mechanism more flexible and should also be welcomed. i would like to point out - perhaps for those who are not aware of the situation - that the reason for these special features and flexibility of the outermost regions is their absolute inability to compete on the union's markets, that is to say, aid to farmers in the canary islands or réunion or madeira or the azores will not in any way affect the rest of the european union, since the conditions of competition are the same and, on the contrary, i would say that they will facilitate the development of the economy in the rest of the union, by having markets of a certain purchasing power which benefit the whole of the european union. i therefore hope that this house will give a massive vote in favour of the report by the committee on agriculture and rural development and that these measures will continue to work for our benefit and that of the rest of the territory of the european union.
mr president, we are discussing today a regulation which will go unnoticed among the serious problems which concern us today in the union, but which is of vital importance for the agricultural sectors of the outermost regions and, in many cases, a matter of survival. i would like to highlight two aspects of the project we are discussing: firstly, the maintenance of the financial leaflet, which was approved in the last reform in 2001, which is no small thing in the present times; and secondly, the decentralisation of management which gives the regional authorities the power to introduce the necessary flexibility in accordance with the needs of the agricultural sectors at any given time. in other words, there is no plan to change the intensity of aid, but rather to have a more flexible instrument for management, as mr duarte freitas points out in his amendments nos 4 and 21. the rapporteur's amendment no 27 aims to give legal cover to imports of c sugar in certain outermost regions, especially the azores, the canary islands and madeira. this is not a problem without obstacles, but i hope that the commission will be able to analyse and understand it in order to find the most appropriate solution. commissioner michel made a reference during his speech, which was elliptical in the sense of political correctness, to the management of the specific supply arrangements in the islands - i am referring in particular to the canary islands. believe me, mr michel, the canaries would like both the local authorities and the commission services to ensure maximum transparency in the management of the res, this specific scheme for supplying the islands.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. many of those we met expressed concern at what they saw as a replacement of the still-unfinished peace agenda by an emerging economic and trade liberalization agenda. in this context, the vulnerability of many groups is notorious and therefore worrisome. the groups most affected by the present situation include indigenous groups, social movements and human rights defenders and, as the resolution we are debating and voting on today shows, women and children, especially the poorest. example one: according to the human rights defenders protection unit of the national human rights movement, between january and may there were 76 attacks against human rights defenders, including raids on premises, attacks and murders. during our visit, several of the assaulted and threatened groups told us about their experiences. they also deplored the impunity enjoyed by those responsible for these events, due to the lack of investigation by the authorities. example two: the data on structural and direct violence suffered by guatemalan women are alarming, but the judicial and legislative responses seem insufficient. irregular adoptions and allegations of forced pregnancies or child abduction are just one symptom, among others, of the weakness of the guatemalan rule of law, especially in relation to poor women and indigenous communities. the commission should therefore be urged to set the following priorities in the future eu strategy for guatemala 2007-2013: social cohesion, the right to food, rural development and reform of the land tenure and use system. the strategy must also be drawn up with the greatest possible participation of the groups concerned. only by involving the different actors in the process will it be possible to ensure that the implementation of the strategy has the local support necessary to make its objectives a success.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of children are respected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. according to official figures we obtained there, in 2004, 3,824 guatemalan children were the subject of international adoptions and that figure, for a country of just over twelve million inhabitants, shows that something is wrong there. adoption of a child costs between 25 000 and 30 000 us dollars, of which the donor mother receives only 2 or 3%, i.e. less than 400 euros. this means that the total amount obtained by this phenomenon of mass donations amounts to the second item of the country's total exports. they are, in general, children of single mothers, many of them girls, between 13 and 14 years old, mostly indigenous, and victims of drugs and/or prostitution in many cases. numerous guatemalan governments have tried over the past few years to pass a law that would develop the hague convention on adoption, but have been unsuccessful. the guatemalan congress has not been able, probably under external pressure, to pass such a law. now, the guatemalan government expects that in the coming weeks a law will be passed to put an end to this situation; for this reason, my group intends to send a very clear message to the guatemalan authorities, telling them that they have our full support for their congress to finally pass a law that will put order into this really intolerable situation.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is very aware of the situation in guatemala, as reported by various united nations special envoys and by the european parliament delegation which was in guatemala in april. the defence of human rights is a key priority in our relations with guatemala, in the context of the implementation of the 1996 peace agreements. as regards the adoption of children, the commission has supported, since 2004, the regular approaches of the european union to the guatemalan authorities. these steps enable us to express our concern at the lack of implementation of the hague convention. in this respect, contacts between the european union and unicef have also been satisfactory, particularly on the occasion of the recent visit to guatemala by the secretary-general of the hague conference, mr van loon. the visit helped to create a more favourable climate for the necessary establishment of the convention. at the same time, the commission is supporting a series of cooperation projects on the problem of child trafficking in guatemala and the fight against child pornography, in the context of the country strategy for the period 2007-2013, which is currently being defined. we intend to complement and intensify these efforts through a cooperation axis fully focused on the protection and integral promotion of children and youth, in particular young people and families at risk. the commission has also been involved in various european union initiatives, including with the minister of home affairs and the attorney general. this has given us the opportunity to express our concern about the human rights situation, including attacks on human rights organisations and the increasing violence against women. the european union's indicative general budget for cooperation with guatemala in the field of human rights and democratisation for the period 2002-06 is eur 18 million. this includes support to the office of the prosecutor-general for human rights in rural areas and the judiciary. the commission has also launched a specific 'gender' programme, targeting indigenous women more specifically, with a budget of €6 million. finally, the commission approved a budget of eur 1.2 million to support the installation of the office of the high commissioner for human rights in guatemala, which is scheduled for july 2005. as regards our future cooperation, social cohesion, rural and local development, including the definition of a comprehensive food aid strategy, and the promotion of indigenous peoples remain the top priorities in our relations with guatemala.
author. i am pleased to begin this speech by celebrating the release of six of the human rights defenders whose release we called for in the resolution we are debating today. these people were among the thousands who were detained in ethiopia's capital, addis ababa, during the demonstrations that began on june 6 and lasted for several days, and afterwards. in these riots 36 people were killed. although some 4,000 people have been released, several thousand remain in prison or in unofficial police detention centres. in the face of this situation, the european union must stand firm and demand that the investigation of the facts be continued without obstruction by either party. it also seems clear that the opposition has neither the intention nor the means to carry out a violent revolt that could compromise, in the end, the electoral victory it claims to have achieved. however, we cannot say the same of the government, which, according to the various counts, would have lost the elections. the european union must therefore send a clear message to the government, warning it that it must cease all repressive and provocative attitudes, especially towards members of the opposition, human rights activists or independent journalists, as this hostile attitude may lead the country into a state of chaos that will benefit no one. finally, the european union must demand that the government fulfils its duty and responsibility to guarantee the security of the citizens and the new parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 7 july 2005.
let me now make a statement referring to the events of this summer. as you will recall, on 7 july, at our last session before the holidays, we were shocked by the terrorist attacks in london, which, as we feared at the time, had caused a very large number of victims. the terrorist threat to europe continues and is a problem to which the events of july and those which followed will force us to attach particular importance. but this summer has also been marked by other tragic events: the persistence of terrorism in iraq, terrible natural disasters and accidents that have caused grief in many families around the world - particularly here in europe and, now, very especially, in the united states. you should know that, throughout this summer, whenever one of these events has occurred, your president has, on behalf of the european parliament, immediately expressed our solidarity and addressed himself to the authorities of the countries affected by these tragedies. every time they have happened we have let our voice be heard. and today i think it's good that we all join together, globally, in the grief of the families of the victims of these events, of those who have lost their loved ones in the deadly conflicts that affect the planet. the united states deserves special mention, for it is suffering today from a drama of surprising proportions that is moving the whole world. the number of victims will, it seems, be very high, the displaced persons number in the thousands and the economic damage and the wound to the social structure are very great. in iraq, every day terrorism kills, drop by drop, numerous people. there is enough rumour, as happened a few weeks ago, for a panic movement on a bridge in baghdad to cost over a thousand lives. dramatic accidents involving civilian aircraft and helicopters have killed more than 400 people in indonesia, greece, venezuela, peru and the baltic sea, and also in afghanistan, where european military personnel - this time spanish, but they could have been from any european country - have died in a helicopter crash. i think it is right that we should now recall the words of president karzai of afghanistan when he spoke to this house about the important role played by troops from european countries in defending human rights and maintaining peace in his country. there have been more: catastrophic floods in austria, germany, bulgaria, romania and switzerland have killed dozens of people and displaced hundreds of thousands. serious economic damage from excessive rainfall in half of europe and serious economic damage from the terrible drought in the other half of europe, which is fuelling forest fires, especially in portugal, france and spain, which have claimed the lives of dozens of people, including firefighters and airline pilots involved in fighting the flames. the impact of these environmental damage caused by excess water, in some cases by lack of water, in others, will be very difficult to erase and should remind us that the violence of these phenomena is the result of imbalances to which the european union has attached particular importance and will have to continue to do so. in the face of most of these tragedies, the european union has demonstrated its ability to mobilise and to come quickly to the aid of the victims. our capacity for prevention and action must be put at the service of a spirit of solidarity. the commission's statements on our agenda will give parliament the opportunity to discuss this matter today and we will soon have to legislate on the strengthening of air safety. this brief review of the dramatic events of this summer, which have just taken place, allows me, as we meet again here, to ask you for a minute's silence to express our solidarity with all the victims and to convey our deepest sympathy. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, approved by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 1 september, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131. no amendment requests were submitted for monday and tuesday. so the agenda will be what you know for monday and tuesday. wednesday: following a debate in the conference of presidents, the green group/european free alliance has requested that the report by mr brok on the proposal for a council decision on the signing of the additional protocol to the agreement establishing an association between the european economic community and turkey consequent on the enlargement of the european union be added. given the thorny subject matter, i think it's necessary that someone explain this request. mrs frassoni wishes to do so.
thank you, mr poettering. i am sure that the chairmen of the political groups will take note of your request and take it into account when they set the agenda for the next partsession. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the case of francisco larrañaga, a spanish citizen and a citizen of the european union, who was sentenced to death in the philippines. unfortunately, a few weeks ago, the philippine judiciary reconfirmed the death sentence against this citizen, and the countdown clock has already started; we know that the trial was plagued by irregularities and that paco larrañaga's helplessness is a reality, since several witnesses testified in his favour, because they had seen him elsewhere on the same day and at the same time as the crime he is accused of having committed. but now the most important thing is to save mr. larrañaga's life and all the institutions must put their grain of sand in this just demand. ladies and gentlemen, a citizen of the european union is about to be killed, and we cannot stand by and watch the violation and infringement of the first human right of any citizen, which is life. i therefore ask the president of this parliament to urgently address the philippine government and the president of that country and ask them to apply the right of pardon to francisco larrañaga so that this spanish and european citizen will not be executed.
thank you very much, mr iturgaiz, for drawing the attention of the presidency to the plight of this citizen. we will inform ourselves of the case and, if relevant, act accordingly in accordance with your approach.
this item is closed.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the extreme weather events of this summer have left a trail of destruction in many countries of europe and in the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to express my condolences and our solidarity with the victims of these disasters and accidents on behalf of the college of commissioners. the worst drought in 60 years has hit the iberian peninsula and, combined with high temperatures, has contributed to the spread of fires in southern europe. along with the fires, floods swept through central and eastern europe, and hurricane katrina struck the southern united states. floods and forest fires are recurring phenomena in europe. this year we had more serious consequences but what happened is not something that surprises us. it is therefore necessary, in anticipation of such disasters, that policy makers have designed measures to facilitate prevention where possible and use all available resources to deal with such crises in the most effective way. to enable the european union to respond effectively and in a coordinated manner to major emergencies, the community civil protection mechanism was established in 2001. this mechanism coordinates the means of assistance available in the member states. it also assists in the conduct of preparedness exercises and the design of hypothetical scenarios and simulations to identify any gaps and problems in the civil protection systems of the member states. it shall also promote cooperation and interoperability between the emergency services of the member states. when, at the request of the portuguese government, the mechanism was activated, the european union was able in less than 24 hours to organise the deployment and intervention of a number of firefighting vessels and helicopters from france, italy, spain, germany and the netherlands to support the portuguese firefighters, and with the help of this aid, and because of the more favourable weather conditions, it was possible to put out the fires within a few days. so in this way the situation was brought under control and today at 12 noon we had only five fires whereas on 22 august we had over 50. the facility was also used to provide assistance to bulgaria and romania, the two countries most affected by the floods. many member states have offered help by sending crews, pumps, disinfectants and other means through the european union's civil protection mechanism. these days, the european union is making a significant contribution and participating in the united states' efforts to deal with the tragic devastation left behind by hurricane katrina. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the aid granted to the victims of the earthquake in the united states is not used to finance the destruction of the civilian population in the country. the european aid package consists of contributions from the member states, ranging from material aid to equipment and the deployment of experts and other specialists. the commission has already sent experts and other material to the united states. the community civil protection mechanism has become a necessary tool for coordinating european aid. the response to this summer's events, as well as to the tsunami at the end of last year, has shown that the mechanism is working satisfactorily. however, there is room for improvement. in april 2005, the commission therefore proposed a package of measures to strengthen the european union's response capacity in the field of civil protection. these measures include proposals to improve the transport of aid and to enable the european union to lease specialised equipment from third countries, such as additional firefighting aircraft. this is precisely the kind of measure that will best protect european citizens - and not only - from future disasters. the package of measures to strengthen civil protection is now being examined by the council. i am sure that the european parliament supports our proposals and stands in solidarity with our efforts. the civil protection can only cover the first, immediate phase of an emergency. other means need to be used to deal with the consequences of disasters and to prevent them; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has a number of such instruments. i will mention some of them. rural development programmes offer support for a wide range of forestry activities with funds for fire prevention and restoration of damaged forests. the forest focus regulation is the latest instrument we have at our disposal for monitoring and implementing forest fire prevention measures. the financial framework for forest focus for the period 2003-06 is eur 65 million, including eur 9 million for fire prevention. as regards floods, the commission has proposed the establishment and implementation of a coordinated european union action programme on flood risk management. in accordance with the council conclusions of december 2004, the commission has taken the political initiative in this respect. the european union solidarity fund may provide support to countries affected by major disasters to assist them in their reconstruction efforts. romania and bulgaria have already requested the commission to mobilise the solidarity fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me close by saying that i am sure that the european parliament will support our proposals and will take this opportunity to turn its commitment to solidarity into further action. it is our duty to those affected by the recent disasters.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, as the environment commissioner has pointed out, this summer we in the european union have been victims of catastrophes caused by fire and water, and while some regions are seriously threatened by progressive desertification, others are nevertheless afraid of flooding. it is a sign of european diversity and of the need to be sensitive to other realities. the fires in several southern european member states have caused the loss of dozens of lives, the evacuation of entire populations and extraordinary ecological damage. it is true that we are suffering from a year of drought, but i think it is unacceptable to resign ourselves and take refuge in fate. on the contrary, it is our responsibility to look at the root causes of the catastrophes that recur year after year, and see what we are doing wrong or, simply, what we are not doing. that is why the group of the european people's party is proposing the creation of a temporary committee in our house. the commission should assess concrete measures that we could take at european level to help complement those being put in place by the member states. the fire does not stop at national borders, so we should have a european firefighting protocol; we should at least consider the creation of a specific european agency and, why not, of specialised crossborder bodies. inspector, 24 hours is sometimes too long. without prejudice to the role of the european solidarity fund, i think it would be wrong to limit ourselves to seeking funds every time we suffer a fire. we must go further: for example, the european commission, with the support of the council, has abolished aid to farmers for the setting up, cleaning up and monitoring of fire barriers, something which might perhaps be reconsidered. mr president, these are some of the proposals that we could consider in this temporary committee that the epp-ed group is proposing to set up in our house.
mr president, as others have said before me, this summer of 2005 two natural phenomena, devastating fires and violent floods, have caused destruction and tragic loss of human life throughout the european continent: in the member states, in some candidate countries and also in our closest neighbours, such as switzerland. in its resolution the socialist group wishes first of all to pay sincere tribute to these victims and to express its solidarity with their families and friends. in our resolution, the socialists state that these disasters are not isolated events, but are repeated year after year, revealing structural causes, including climate change, but also others linked, for example, to agriculture and land use. in its resolution, the socialist group calls for european solidarity, not only through an immediate economic commitment, asking the commission to mobilise the solidarity fund, but also through other medium and long-term measures, such as the creation of a european civil protection corps or a european drought observatory, or, ladies and gentlemen, through the preparation of an own-initiative report. we believe that this would be more effective than a temporary committee, and would seal the commitment that the european parliament must also acquire, not only by urging other institutions such as, for example, the european commission to work, but by working itself as a legislator, in this case through its various committees, which could put together a work that, as i say, would be summed up in an owninitiative report on forest fires and on the natural disasters that periodically plague our continent in summer. the european drought observatory would certainly be the tool to help understand, reduce and monitor the effects of drought in europe.
madam president, first of all i would like to express our sincere condolences and sympathy to the families and friends of the victims, with special mention to the young eva maría gonzalo torrellas, who was killed in the accident in peru on 23 august last. she was a young woman from turin, from my region, who worked in london and had wanted to go on holiday to peru. i would also like to express my disappointment at the accidents this year, which erase the excellent results of 2003 and 2004 in one fell swoop, and which, while not denying the fact that the aviation sector is one of the safest, reopen us and urge us to resolve serious questions about how to impose legal frameworks, controls and limits on globalisation, so that it does not become a process of growing insecurity and fear, half-truths and trade wars and flags amid great opacity. it is therefore urgent to be able to secure what many of our citizens have experienced as a joyous achievement: the popularization and democratization of the possibility of travelling far to visit loved ones, to work, or to know different places and cultures, which enrich us. this requires fast and good work and in this respect i welcome with satisfaction and hope the proposed improvements to the passenger information regulation. we also reiterate our support for the establishment of common criteria for the drawing up of a european blacklist, with maximum transparency and publicity, which would also be uniform and serve to improve proposals for improvement in the icao. it has done very well in the case of the prestige, in another area of action, and even in relation to improvements in icao; therefore we propose it, and we hope that the commission will also achieve it for aviation safety. but there are some important questions. once we have the rules, we have to apply them, and that raises important social questions: what will happen to the training of the crew, which has proved to be essential in preventing casualties in an accident like the one in toronto? what about the trust and assurances that must be given to pilots, the foremost safety experts, who are often penalized by their companies? what about the technical inspections and audits which are often not even carried out in our member states but in third countries, and even in major flag carriers? we must therefore clarify all this, so that our work serves as a tribute to the victims, and so that accidents of this kind are not repeated.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i thank parliament for this interesting and important debate. i am glad that the opinion adopted by parliament's committee on employment and social affairs shares the commission's proposal's desire for simplification and rationalization and i would like to say a few words about the commission's position on some major amendments. as regards amendment no 55 on the inclusion of regional and national non-governmental organisations as potential beneficiaries of the programme, the commission stresses that this support for national and regional ngos is not excluded. nevertheless, the commission wanted to send a signal to make it clear that the programme is primarily aimed at ngos organised at union level because they bring greater added value. as regards the increase in the financial envelope of the programme, amendments nos 66 and 73, and the distribution of funds between the various sections of the programme and the flexibility reserve provided for, amendments nos 67 and 74, the commission does not oppose a debate on these matters, but at this stage it does not alter its initial proposal and awaits a global agreement on the financial perspective. as regards amendment no 59 which divides the committee into five subcommittees corresponding to the five sections of the programme, the commission will not change its position that it wishes to be assisted by only one committee on the progress programme, even though the members of this committee may change according to the agenda, as stated in recital 12a of the amended council proposal. i am pleased to note that the european parliament's position is not very far from that of the commission. the commission welcomes the amendments aimed at strengthening the role of the european parliament and the mainstreaming of the gender dimension. there is no risk of a loss of visibility of the gender dimension in the new progress programme; the commission will, on the contrary, make sure that this dimension is highlighted, which, by being incorporated into the new programme, will reinforce the principle of mainstreaming. i fully understand the concerns expressed in parliament's draft opinion and the commission will therefore amend its proposal as far as possible to take account of parliament's opinion. mr president, i shall now list the amendments which the commission can accept in full: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 15, 17, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 26, 30, 34, 36, 37, 39, 40, 42, 43, 46, 47, 52, 53, 54, 61, 62, 63, 68, 69 and 70. the commission can accept the substance, but only partly the spirit, subject to recasting, of the following amendments: 4, 11, 14, 18, 22, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 35, 41, 44, 45, 48, 49, 58, 64, 65 and 71. the commission must reject the following amendments: 9, 16, 23, 33, 38, 50, 51, 55, 56, 57, 59, 60, 66, 67, 72, 73 and 74. in conclusion, i would like to thank the european parliament for the quality of its debate on this proposal. i can say with confidence, thanks to the dialogue between the commission and the european parliament, that the text that comes out of it will take better account of the political objectives of the european parliament, while at the same time contributing to the effort of simplification and rationalization that will benefit the beneficiaries. the progress proposal before you is fundamental to the implementation of the new social agenda. this programme will make it possible to provide financial support for the tools at our disposal, such as the open method of coordination, the drawing up and monitoring of legislation, the exchange of good practice and the work of non-governmental organisations. that, mr president, is my conclusion.
i am grateful to mr weber for his willingness to engage in dialogue and seek agreement. i believe, honestly, that democracy is basically a regime of public opinion and that therefore the quality of it depends on the quality of what we have come to call freedom of expression, which is a right that not everyone understands well. for me, freedom of expression is first and foremost the right of every citizen to choose the news channels he prefers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the media are not allowed to be controlled by a few people. i would like to make a few specific points from these considerations, which are very general in my view, which i would like to put into practice in the not too distant future. we must fight all initiatives which undermine freedom of expression and therefore we cannot allow interference with the content of programmes. let us refrain from doing so. in my view, we should not tell commercial television stations how they should manage advertising on their networks, because advertising is fundamental to commercial television. they have to respect the ceiling set by the law, but we should not tell them how to distribute it, because they know perfectly well how to make the engine of their commercial survival profitable. mr weber, we must set a political objective - and this is where we most disagree - to put an end to a concept which i consider to be perverse: that of public service. this concept makes sense insofar as radio spectrum is limited and governments therefore have to regulate it through a system of administrative concessions, which in the end end end up being intimidating. but mr weber, you have acknowledged that we are moving towards a world in which television has to be redefined, in which television is the conventional television we know, but it is also internet television, mobile television and television because of all the new technologies. it is therefore not a scarce commodity, and we must limit state interventionism. i would like to see this concept of public service not attributed to commercial television in the not too distant future. and i would therefore like to see us agreeing on a redefinition of the role of public television, which is fundamental, as long as it respects the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say, making those programmes which viewers want to watch and cannot watch on commercial television. mr weber, that is the principle of subsidiarity which i defend. in conclusion, mr president, i believe that technologies are changing, that they are therefore changing perspectives, and that it is our responsibility to make the most of the new 'television without frontiers' directive so that it can be an opportunity to improve the quality of democracy. that's why i want to express my wish that we will do well.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate you on the revision of this directive, because it updates some of the provisions of the 'television without frontiers' directive, in particular those relating to the promotion of the distribution and production of television programmes. the market alone cannot solve the problems of the sector in terms of television content and, moreover, technological advances should not be left out of existing regulation. the whole of the articles of the directive therefore need to be reviewed periodically, to prevent technological development from being synonymous with uncontrolled development and to ensure that the fundamental principles of the current directive are maintained - among them, i would like to highlight the protection of minors and the control of violence. given that the quotas for european works are mostly covered by national works, i fully support the rapporteur's defence of voluntary initiatives to increase quotas for non-national european works and i support the proposal to establish more effective mechanisms for compliance with and control of member states' legislation. given that public audiovisual services are key in shaping public opinion, contribute to cultural diversity and pluralism and help to create awareness of european citizenship, i would like to stress the importance of language learning for greater access to pan-european audiovisual channels and works. i would also like to say that the revised directive must safeguard the development of new technologies and new services, in order to ensure growth in the european economy and job creation, in accordance with the lisbon strategy. finally, it is necessary to ensure media pluralism, avoiding the granting of licences which are not in accordance with the law, as well as concentration, which is a threat to democracy. cultural diversity, freedom and pluralism of the media must remain the most important elements of the european audiovisual model.
madam president, in the last few months, with the forthcoming seventh framework programme and other important initiatives, we in the committee on industry, research and energy have had intense discussions which have clarified our needs and objectives in relation to science, technology and innovation. we cannot let all this baggage go to waste when we work on our budget for 2006, which must be guided by the political line and the priorities we have been setting out, without contradicting them in any way. if we are to follow the lisbon strategy and the recommendations of the locatelli report, this parliament cannot in any way accept the proposed reduction in all the items relating to research and the promotion of innovation in small and mediumsized enterprises. in the same vein, the substantial reduction in appropriations for research into sustainable energy systems and sustainable surface transport contradicts what we have heard and repeatedly defended in our commission, and we in the socialist group do not share the drastic reduction in appropriations for the fight against serious diseases.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council now no longer here madam commissioner, normally we should not have a debate on an amending budget. in fact, other amending budgets are presented in this house and are not discussed, even though the financial allocation is higher. but this amending budget for tsunami aid has required two different trilogues, has consumed a large part of the conciliation procedure of 22 june and has also given rise to long and complex discussions between the three institutions. i must acknowledge the effort made at the time by the president-in-office of the council: coming particularly from negotiators who are usually as tough as the british negotiators, i must acknowledge that they really did, in the end, show a flexibility without which it would not have been possible to unblock the agreement. a solution has always been sought on the basis of an original council position which was completely unacceptable to the other two institutions. the commission made an initial proposal for the financing of aid for the reconstruction of the countries affected by the tsunami, which we in parliament consider acceptable and logical. i recognize that if the council had shown greater flexibility from the outset, we would today be prepared to vote on the original proposal put forward by the european commission, because the european parliament had confidence in the commission's proposal even though it involved reprogramming, which also has its negative side, as our colleagues in the committee on development have rightly pointed out. we in the committee on budgets understood that this reprogramming was inevitable, but we demanded that it be confined to the asian programmes or that, in any case, the duration of the aid provided be extended. however, both the european parliament and the council's declaration in january this year stated that in any case no part of this eur 350 million, which constitutes the bulk of reconstruction aid, could be financed from budgetary items already committed. in other words - and these are the words with which the committee on budgets and this rapporteur have been working all this time - the new financial resources are needed to finance the new commitments made in external affairs. this was the main point of disagreement with the council and the reason for so many failed negotiations, which have extended the period for the adoption of a final decision to nine months. it has taken us that long to decide on the mobilisation of all this aid to put it to the vote of this house. the council intended to finance part of this reconstruction aid at the expense of established programmes of the european union. finally, the agreement reached is at the expense of the emergency reserve, which was the solution envisaged in a more modest way by the commission to unblock this refusal of the council. we as a parliament were particularly insistent on the mobilisation of the flexibility reserve, but we have finally decided to accept a proposal which mobilises the emergency reserve more than prudence would have us do. let us hope that during the remaining months of 2005 there will be no need to mobilise the emergency reserve beyond the current available amount. the president-in-office of the council said in the previous debate that he is optimistic about the additional 13 million euros we have to finance in 2005. i am also optimistic, since, as the report makes very clear, we have 293 million euro of the flexibility reserve to mobilise. i am therefore confident that we will be able to find these 13 million in this flexibility instrument because, of course, to trust that we can get these 13 million in the final budget implementation of 2005 seems practically unthinkable to us at this stage - and i do not think that i would be able to put forward such a proposal in parliament. in conclusion, it is clear that the european union is possibly the world champion in the speed of issuing important and solemn declarations which affect all the institutions and involve a commitment in external affairs, and it is certainly behind the world institutions in turning those declarations which it solemnly signs into financial commitments. i hope that we will draw all the conclusions and lessons from this process and from now on we will be much faster in unblocking aid to other countries.
mr president, believe me, mrs de sarnez, when i say that your report is frankly good but, since satisfaction is not at odds with ambition, let me point out three things where i think we could have gone a little further. the content of the report covers such disparate subjects that it is difficult to find a common denominator. it talks about the protection of minors on the internet but also about the right of reply and discrimination. it seems to me - and in this case i am addressing myself to you, mrs reding - that we should make it possible for each of these matters to be the subject of a specific recommendation. secondly, there is no explicit reference - and i agree with what mr sifunakis said - to the need to respect freedom of expression, because the protection of minors which we have outlined in this recommendation can lead to situations where the limitations extend to older people and that would be a breach of article 10 of the universal declaration of human rights. for this reason, and because there are no unlimited rights, the u.s. supreme court struck down the communications decency act. i think we shouldn't make the same mistake and we should heal ourselves. thirdly and lastly, i would like to point out that, in my view, this recommendation is unnecessarily cut short, because we have spoken a lot about children as viewers of unwanted audiovisual content, but we have not looked at children as passive subjects. when we talk about paedophilia, we forget that it is children, minors, who are the target of this type of illicit information and i miss any reference to this in this report.
member of the commission. mr president, first let me express my thanks and appreciation to the rapporteur, mr becsey, for his objective analysis of the commission's proposal. i am pleased to note that his report corresponds fully with the views of the commission. let me say a few words about the commission's proposal. in the communication on the vat strategy presented in 2003, the simplification of tax obligations was identified as one of the key areas for future work. in particular, a proposal for a directive on this issue was scheduled for 2004. the objective of simplifying business obligations in the field of vat is in line with the request made by the european council of 25 and 26 march 2004 to identify areas for simplification. as mr becsey rightly says in his report, cross-border businesses need to comply with the tax rules of every member state in which they undertake their activities. that implies that such businesses are faced with enormous administrative burdens, which discourage companies – especially small and medium-sized enterprises – from cross-border business. those burdens obstruct the smooth functioning of the european single market. one of the ways of attaining the lisbon agenda objectives, in particular that of promoting economic growth, is to reduce cross-border administrative burdens and compliance costs in order to facilitate community-wide activities by businesses. the commission's proposal fully meets the objective of reducing such administrative burdens. the commission proposes the establishment of an optional one-stop system, whereby taxable persons can fulfil their vat obligations in the member state of establishment. it will harmonise the scope of the goods and services to which member states may apply restrictions on the right to deduct. it will extend the use of obligatory reverse-charge mechanisms for certain business-to-business transactions carried out by non-established taxable persons. furthermore, it reviews and updates the scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises and simplifies the distance-selling arrangements. finally, it will provide for the exchange of information between member states, which will be facilitated by the electronic system for the exchange of information. for your information, the proposal has received a positive reaction from the european economic and social committee. the committee has acknowledged that, in the current environment, the unanimity rule for decision-making applies; the commission should opt for a pragmatic approach. the united kingdom presidency has indicated that it will give these proposals a high priority, and discussion on this proposal commenced in the council during july. two more meetings will be devoted to the subject in september. so far, the council has concentrated its discussions on a general overview of the commission's proposal. i appreciate that the council's approach has been globally positive.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner kovács, ladies and gentlemen, vat is the most important indirect tax in the various member states and also a key figure in the european tax system, making a major contribution to the union's budgets. the development of the lisbon strategy calls for improved tax rules to foster growth and employment; reducing administrative burdens can boost the internal market and stimulate business activity, in particular by encouraging the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the internal market and benefiting consumers. the european socialists are in favour of simplification, modernisation, uniform application and intensification of the fight against tax fraud. to advance these objectives, we believe that lessons must be learned from experience and the opportunities offered by new technologies must be seized. for these reasons, we have very much welcomed the commission's proposals on simplifying crossborder debts and refunds, harmonizing the categories of deductible expenditure and administrative cooperation in the context of the single window. the final result of mr becsey's report is in this direction and is meritorious, even if it is clouded by the inclusion of an amendment, no 9, which modifies the commission's provision to recognise the member states' right to grant exemptions to small and medium-sized enterprises whose turnover does not exceed eur 100 000. the alternative wording of the resolution has, in our view, opened up a debate on its timeliness and appropriateness, which has led to a lack of consensus among the various groups. i hope that we will soon be able to come together again on this point, so that we can move forward firmly in favour of the objectives of the european union in a sensitive area such as the one raised by the commission's proposal.
the agenda includes the debate on the council and commission statements on freedom and security: responding to the terrorist threat by safeguarding the rights of citizens.
mr president, defining and specifying what the political role of the european union and its institutions should be in the fight against terrorism is, in my view, an absolutely urgent objective for this presidency of the european union. this is not a europeanist argument, but a fundamental necessity for each of the countries affected by the terrorist phenomenon. it is necessary for the deep sense of the union to emerge, it is necessary for all of us, for all europeans, and it is necessary because if the european union does not know how to play a role in the fight against terrorism, the question will arise: what is the european union for? if there is no unity in the face of fear, and that is the european union, what is the european union for? and that will obviously mean not only a failure for the european union but also a waste for the european nations, who will not know how to use the union's courage to combat a phenomenon such as terrorism. the european union must be an essential political element in the fight against terrorism, especially for the ministers of the interior. i know that these ministers have many urgent matters, they need many instruments and tools, but i believe that one of the first urgent matters in this european council before you is that you, the ministers of the interior and justice, should be able to promote a european political project and find a usefulness and effectiveness for the european union in combating terrorism, because you are the ones who will need the union most in the coming years. i am talking about a political project of the european union, not an exhaustive list of measures which, in the end, we are not able to communicate. it is clear that we must support the union's measures on biometric data, to which mr clarke referred, or certainly data retention or certainly what the ministers of the interior need, but we must put the emphasis on the political dimension, on the dimension of a european political project. in this parliament we spend a lot of time talking about technical and legal measures, but very little time on the political effort that the european union requires to combat terrorism. we cannot continue to build the house by the roof; we must give the european union's action the indispensable political dimension. and where can we find the european political project? i mean, in the face of islamist terrorism, the terrorism of those who claim to defend islam, the terrorism of al qaeda, the important thing is that we understand that it's an emerging phenomenon, about which we don't know almost everything: the cadence, the timing, the way in which they are choosing the nations where they commit the attacks. we don't know. we need a european political project based on information and intelligence to understand the phenomenon and diagnose the organization we are facing. we must be able not only to take action but also to make sure that the european citizens know and understand what we are doing. we do not spend time or political effort saying what we are doing and european citizens do not know what the european union is doing. they only see the national police forces; the european union does not exist to combat terrorism, they do not recognize us, they do not see what we are doing. that is why it is so important to make an effort to have national police information forums that are spearheaded by the european institutions, we need a european information centre, where the security forces can access databases such as eurodac, sis or vis and, in short, ladies and gentlemen, we need a political dimension. you don't fight against terrorism. to say that we are fighting international terrorism is to say nothing. we are fighting an organisation and that is why i am concerned that those responsible for the european institutions do not dare to name the organisation we are fighting. i do not care whether we are talking about al qaeda, islamist terrorism, radical or fundamentalist groups, or groups claiming to defend islam, but terrorism has in its diffuse character its main accomplice and therefore the european union must, without a doubt, face up to a problem of this nature, adopting all the instruments of the rule of law and, of course, from our unequivocal respect for what the defence of human rights means.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may i express my solidarity with the british people and my admiration for their courage. i would like to make three comments on the three principles which the president-in-office of the council has expressed and stated. firstly, i agree with the basic approach you took at the beginning in defence of the values we share - democracy and respect for human rights - which have made a united and peaceful europe possible. the consequence is that we have to respond to the so-called clash of civilizations - everyone has his problems with fundamentalists - and i think that, on the eve of the united nations assembly, it would be important to make a joint defence of the alliance of civilizations which, in this case, has been proposed jointly by the governments of spain and turkey and in respect of which i believe there is a favourable position of the british government. secondly, i understand that, as minister clarke and commissioner frattini have said, we are seeking to consolidate a legal framework in the fight against terrorism and also against international crime, knowing that we do not yet have the constitution in force, and i would say to minister clarke that there are no's to the constitution, but there are many more 'yeses'. i think that in this period of reflection we must continue to work so that this constitution will allow us to have a legal framework, and i think that he, who is a convinced europeanist, can do an important job in the british government in convincing it of the virtues of this constitution. i encourage that. thirdly, with regard to intelligence and cooperation between the information services, which is at least 70% of the fight against terrorism, i will only make one reference to the point where it has been extended, which is the issue of telecommunications. when we talk about the defence of privacy, we have to bear in mind that there are higher goods that justify an active policy. he has referred to the london case. i can tell you that in the case of the madrid attacks, what enabled the police to quickly identify the terrorists was precisely the knowledge of the data on mobile phones, and this also prevented many more victims, because they were prepared to continue killing. i think we have to take that very seriously when we're defending privacy and the shared values of our society.
mr president, i admit that in the fight against terrorism i am not neutral. i fully support the approach and priorities which minister clarke has expressed to us today on behalf of the british presidency. i therefore want to take advantage of your presence here and that of commissioner frattini to stress the need for action, for us to take the political initiative. fighting terrorism is more than chasing and arresting criminals and comforting victims; it is more than police cooperation and solidarity. it is not a question of reducing the operational powers of the ministries of the interior or justice; it is a question of responding effectively and responsibly to the threat posed by terrorism to democracy. terrorism is a choice: a vile, cowardly and cruel choice. their actions are not predetermined by any ideology, any religion, any social or political situation, and nothing can justify it. an effective policy must be able not only to identify and bring to justice those directly responsible for the crimes, but also to act on their roots and on those who legitimize their acts, because terrorists are not only those who plant bombs, but also those who, for example, inculcate hatred in young people born and educated in democracy, a hatred that fanaticises them and leads them to murder their neighbours and to terrorize millions of innocent citizens, as was dramatically shown by the london attacks or, for 27 years, by the eta attacks in spain. europe needs a clear voice that citizens can identify as our political position on this matter. the citizens of europe, and the terrorists too, must realise that we are not resigned to living with terror; the citizens must know that we are prepared to take all the necessary decisions and to use all the instruments of the rule of law to guarantee their security, to make their freedom effective and to defeat the terrorist strategy. in a democracy, security is an instrument in the service of freedom. we all know there can be security without freedom, but there is no freedom without security. only a pluralist, democratic and secure society can guarantee the full exercise of freedoms. both rights are inalienable and we must make them compatible. that is why, in addition to showing my support for the measures announced, i call for a common, transparent and consensual european anti-terrorism policy, so that democracy can be strengthened, so that citizens can regain confidence in their institutions and so that terrorists can lose all hope.
mr president, i think it is a question of identifying the problem correctly. the response to this identification is a sustained attack on our democracy, and so i do not think it is useful in a democratic society to put freedom and security on the same scale: in the face of an exceptional and very serious situation, special measures must be taken, temporary and legally based, but with determination, without complexes and without concessions. there is another hidden side to this debate, which i want to mention. this is the much-discussed problem of data storage. it is not said, but i say that behind all this there are pressure groups and there are unacceptable economic situations. it is worth adding, mr president, that economic interests and security cannot be set against each other, much less be disguised as an alleged encroachment on public freedoms, even if only temporarily. mr president, i am firmly with the victims, with the british people and their government, and i support them wholeheartedly; i am with the democratic judges and police. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying something i know very well: they hear us, they have procedures for hearing us; we do not want to know what they say, but when they say it and to whom they speak. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in disneyland, we are in a democratic and determined fight against terror.
mr president, after september 11, 2001, the united states, under the pretext of maximizing security, led an underground, and for a time secret, sui generis war. it is a matter of what we might call 'the relocation of torture', brought to the fore recently by the kidnapping, in the middle of a milan street, of an egyptian citizen, allegedly carried out by the cia. the italian prosecutor ordered the search and capture of thirteen americans involved in the kidnapping of the suspected terrorist, sent to egypt to be subjected to special treatment. cairo acknowledged receiving it through extraordinary procedures. such procedures are called, in cia jargon, 'extraordinary rendition', which is equivalent to outsourcing torture: they kidnap a person suspected of having connections with terrorism and send him to a country, usually arab, specialized in such art; secretly, and without respecting any right, he leaves american territory, so that the patriotic values, which repudiate, fortunately, such behavior, are not violated, since the interrogations take place on foreign territory. the commission has replied to the question put on these issues by three socialist colleagues that, as these are abductions carried out by a third state on the territory of member states, it is impossible for it to act. i understand that, but the union has close links with the states involved in the scandal i am referring to, and so i think it would be helpful if the council, even if there is no community competence, were to make it quite clear that europe is acting in international relations in a different way.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, it is a great and genuine honour for me to be here in the european parliament today on behalf of the council. i personally welcome the opportunity to discuss the situation in the middle east. we are witnessing a new chapter of that region’s history, which brings with it both opportunities and considerable challenges. i would like to begin by welcoming the historic progress made by israel’s withdrawal from gaza and parts of the northern west bank. the european union commends the israeli government and the palestinian authority for their commitment to overcoming the difficult challenges they both face. we are pleased that the disengagement process has so far gone well, with the avoidance of significant violence. the israeli government, with the assistance of the palestinian authority, carried out the disengagement plan effectively and quickly. the security forces evacuated the settlers sensitively but with resolve and determination. in short, they managed a difficult task well. we applaud the close coordination between the palestinian authority and israel, and encourage them to continue on this path. we are keen to see that disengagement is a success across the board. to this end, we welcome, and urge the continuation of, the restraint shown by the majority of israelis and, indeed, of palestinians. the success of the disengagement process so far encourages both parties to continue their cooperation on the remaining steps of the process, not least in their close work with the quartet’s special envoy for disengagement, james wolfensohn. he has presented plans for action to support palestinian economic and institutional development in the context of disengagement and beyond, identifying key areas where progress would be needed. these include transport links, border crossings, customs issues between israel, egypt and the palestinian authority, the link between gaza and the west bank, and air and sea ports. the international community has pledged its full support. freeing-up of movement within the west bank is essential to palestinian economic revival. improved access for people and goods, while maintaining security for israelis, will also be crucial to creating a sense of hope for the palestinians. taking full advantage of the opportunity of disengagement and promoting continued reform of palestinian institutions – as set out at the london meeting on march 1 – will be our two main priorities during our presidency. in this context, the european union will work closely, of course, with mr wolfensohn in order to help realise plans to make gaza economically viable after the israeli withdrawal. it is also important that we look beyond disengagement to advance the political process and to take advantage of the opportunity it represents. after disengagement, both sides will need to focus on making progress against their roadmap and sharm el-sheikh commitments. in iraq, we have also witnessed another important step forward following the publication of iraq’s constitution as recently as 28 august 2005. we congratulate the iraqi people on reaching this important milestone in the political process. drafting the constitution has, of course, been difficult. all of iraq’s communities have worked together to draft this constitution and there have been compromises on all sides. but they have now produced a constitution that we hope will be a key building-block towards a democratic iraq. in particular, the principles of democracy and basic human rights are, with islam, the founding tenets of the new iraq. no law can be passed that contradicts those tenets. all iraqis are held equal before the law, regardless of gender or, indeed, of religion. freedom of belief is protected in the constitution. all extremist groups are prohibited. the new iraq pledges to respect its neighbours and its international obligations. the oil of iraq is owned by all the iraqi people and is to be exploited so as to maximise the benefit to the iraqi people. the european union will continue to encourage all iraqis to play a part in the next stage of the political process by voting on the draft constitution in the october referendum. broad public support for the constitution will help ensure a stable future for iraq. the iraqis have succeeded in drafting this constitution despite the actions of terrorists who are trying to destroy the country’s desire for that peaceful future. the council recognises the many challenges still ahead for iraq, particularly in terms of the security of its people. the european union is working to build up the capacity of the iraqi security forces and the judiciary through its integrated rule of law and police training mission. on iran, however, we are deeply concerned by that country’s unilateral resumption of activity at the uranium conversion facility in esfahan on 8 august. this is in clear breach of successive iaea board resolutions and, indeed, the paris agreement iran entered into just last november. the iaea board resolution, which was adopted by consensus on 11 august, is a clear and united signal from the international community of its wish that iran return to suspending all conversion activities without delay. we also regret that iran has chosen to reject, without serious consideration, the european side’s detailed proposals presented on 5 august. these are the most far-reaching proposals for relations between iran and europe since the revolution. they would lead to a new relationship based on cooperation. i would like to reiterate that the european side is not asking iran to give up its civil nuclear programme. the european proposal specifically offered support for that programme, but there is no civilian operational need for iran to develop fuel cycle capabilities. putting its fuel cycle activities on hold would not affect iran’s ability to develop a civil power and research programme; yet allowing them to continue would bring iran closer to the ability to produce fissile material for a nuclear weapon. we remain committed to a diplomatic solution. we hope iran will reverse its decision and re-suspend uranium conversion activity. the key to resolving this issue is for iran to take the confidence-building steps requested of it by successive iaea board resolutions and restore the suspension. as part of our wider engagement with the region, november’s euro-med 10th anniversary summit in barcelona will be a critical opportunity to help the european union’s mediterranean partners to meet the challenges of the 21st century. the barcelona process needs to modernise and move towards a more results-orientated process, with much more focus on reform. in other words, it needs to address the concerns of the peoples on both sides of the mediterranean. the 1995 declaration was a landmark and much of it remains valid today. but it still requires much in the way of implementation. this includes the need to address obstacles to progress on governance, human rights, market openness and foreign investment. we want to see medium-term targets adopted at that summit outlining the kind of region we all want to see in five years. we cannot achieve these aims without peace in the region. without peace, we will not achieve the zone of stability and prosperity that is our shared objective. but lack of peace should not also become an extra barrier to progress elsewhere. we would do well to heed the demands of the people across the region for more transparent government, for economic reform and for social and cultural awareness. we believe that there is a new determination in the region to address the challenges facing its people. we are determined to work hard to ensure that the barcelona process plays a full role in addressing the challenges facing citizens across the euro-med region. the summit would be a unique opportunity for us to demonstrate that our partnership is relevant to our peoples and can deliver results on the issues that matter to them. our partnership can help achieve a step change in regional development and indeed modernisation, through action on good governance, economic reform and education. delivering results in these key areas, against specific targets and commitments, will help drive forward regional progress.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, honourable members, it is my pleasure to be able to address you today on the middle east peace process at a time when there is a renewed feeling of momentum and hope. after five years of the second intifada, the past six months of calm have witnessed a downturn in violence and terrorist acts and the israeli withdrawal from the gaza strip and removal of settlers from certain parts of the northern west bank has passed off smoothly. the professionalism of both sides is to be commended. but real challenges lie ahead. by this i mean firstly putting in place the conditions necessary so that the israeli withdrawal creates an opportunity for ordinary palestinians to improve their daily lives. secondly, the implementation of the roadmap in full, and thirdly, the creation of a viable palestinian state at peace with its neighbour, israel. the commission recognises that for the recent disengagement to be considered a success it must bring tangible and immediate improvement to the lives of ordinary palestinians. the commission has therefore launched a eur 60 million package as an immediate response to the withdrawal. this consists of a eur 40 million infrastructure facility geared to labour-intensive, fast-disbursing projects to restore essential services in the west bank and gaza; eur 12 million assistance to institution-building to help the palestinians assume governance responsibilities following disengagement, and a package of eur 8 million focusing on social services, as well as east jerusalem. the commission is also working closely with the european investment bank to identify common projects in the infrastructure sector. i would like to mention here the fact that we have already in place the european neighbourhood policy and that we have already agreed common action plans with israel, the palestinian authority and jordan and that the commission is absolutely convinced that in the context of the european neighbourhood policy europe can play an important and helpful role in overcoming the problems of the region. this assistance will not, however, achieve its desired results unless israel and the palestinian authority tackle such important issues as movement of people and goods between gaza and the west bank and the outside world, the greenhouses, operation of the border terminals, the dismantling and removal of settlers' homes and movement of people within the west bank. it is for this reason that the commission is providing financial, political and human resources support to the quartet special envoy james wolfensohn, whose contribution to the disengagement has been remarkable. the special envoy has succeeded in fostering dialogue with the palestinian authority and israel on each of these issues. however, only one – the greenhouses – has been settled in full. the commission is helping in this. we are, for example, ready to fund a new presence at border crossings as a confidence-building measure, if the parties so request. the commission is also keenly aware of the need to maintain the israel-palestinian authority customs union so as to avoid possible trade disruption and to do what it can to promote interregional trade and investment. the second challenge for the peace process is implementation of the roadmap. the disengagement has clearly been traumatic for israel, but it has not caused the much-feared rift in israeli society. on the palestinian side, president abbas was able to keep the palestinian factions in check. it is now for the international community to help move both sides forward in parallel, helping the palestinian authority to make progress on tackling incitement and the dismantling of terrorist infrastructure and pressing israel to bring to a halt the creation of new 'facts on the ground', which threaten to undermine future final status negotiations. settlement activity in and around jerusalem and the route of the separation barrier are the two most pressing issues. the third challenge is how to promote the creation of a viable palestinian state, for which the implementation of the roadmap is a necessary condition. there is already renewed impetus for palestinian reform, institution- building, stemming from the intention of the palestinian authority to establish a medium-term plan for economic development and from the g8 political commitment to raise up to eur 3 billion each year for the next three years in order to fund this plan. in the coming weeks, the commission will be putting forward proposals for a comprehensive and coherent medium-term strategy for the european union's relations with a future palestinian state, including better coordination of eu positions and financial assistance. we need to see how best we can promote the political and economic viability of a future palestinian state through targeted assistance in support of reform and institution-building. it is clear that efforts must be geared towards the promotion of human rights and democratic principles, the rule of law, improved security and increased effectiveness of public administration.
the truth is that the evacuation of the settlements in the gaza strip is finally good news in a context where we have only heard of hatred, death, endless suffering and desolation. today it is up to the palestinians, and i would like to quote their leader, mahmoud abbas, to follow the democratic path they have chosen, to control extremist movements and to consolidate their institutions; israel, on the other hand, should also refrain from building new settlements and together, through dialogue, seek, as commissioner verheugen has just pointed out, the viability of two states, secure, with recognized borders on the basis of united nations resolutions. it is clear that there are other problems which remain to be resolved, and they are perfectly outlined in the road map: the problem of east jerusalem, the refugee problem and the conflict between israel and syria. and this at a time when the political situation presents the resignation of mr netanyahu as a member of the government to contest the leadership of the likud with prime minister sharon, and on the horizon of the palestinian elections, where the european union will be present with an observation mission, led by our colleague véronique de keyser, to whom i wish to express my best wishes. i therefore welcome, mr president, the statement made by the presidency-in-office of the council that the european union must play a fundamental role in achieving a just and lasting peace in the region. the european union is the main donor to palestine; it is a partner of israel, egypt, jordan, lebanon and also of syria in the future association agreement, and it is clear that it has a key role to play in political and economic reforms in the region. i therefore welcome the initiatives presented by the european commission as a first step in the context of this package of 60 million to rebuild the infrastructure of the region and to consolidate the palestinian authority in the gaza strip.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, we regard the israeli withdrawal from gaza as very positive, and as the beginning of a new process towards peace in the middle east. the european union should make every effort to improve the quality of life of the palestinians in gaza, ensure access to the economy and the opening as soon as possible of the port and airport and develop other aspects of economic activity, such as the connection and communication between gaza and the west bank. but instead of the hope that gaza represents, we fear that the current israeli policy in jerusalem may abruptly close the so-called 'window of opportunity' in the very heart of the conflict, the most sensitive and volatile. we are sincerely glad that the majority of israelis and their government seem to have abandoned the idea of a 'greater israel', but we regret that this project is possibly replaced by that of a 'greater jerusalem' that grows endlessly over palestinian territories, having appropriated so far 164 km2 of the west bank, north, east and south of the city of jerusalem. these unilateral appropriations do not serve israel's interests, because they jeopardize any stable peace and security agreement by establishing facts on the ground of great demographic and urban significance. these works involve the amputation of east jerusalem from the west bank and the destruction of the territorial continuity which is essential for any future palestinian state that is at least viable and credible. that's a recipe for disaster. this policy would leave the palestinian cities of bethlehem, ramallah and east jerusalem virtually untouched. particularly worrying, and i hope the council and the commission will take note, is project e 1, which provides for housing for 15 000 people, hotels and industrial estates in east jerusalem, which would really mean the completion of the project to separate the north and south of the west bank. the european union must strive to make jerusalem a city of two peoples, two nations, and the capital of two viable states living in peace.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, i do not intend to tell you about my life, but as an example of what we are discussing here today, i will tell you that during the last decade of the 1990s i was in charge of a metropolitan city of one million inhabitants which was going through a great depression and was undergoing an industrial conversion. as mayor and president of the municipal corporation of the city of bilbao, i had great faith in the theories of a renowned marketing professor, philip kotler, author of several publications, my favorite of which is entitled the marketing of nations. in it, kotler points out that a country, region or city that wants to offer opportunities for progress and well-being to its citizens must set three major objectives of equal importance: selling its goods abroad, attracting investment and attracting tourism. tourism is not only for leisure, but also for business, education, science, sport, culture, etc. today, my city has increased its per capita income, due to the remarkable increase in tourism that has achieved its urban transformation, positioning itself in its industrial hinterland, as a center of services, commerce, business and culture. it is not necessary to mention the important contribution of tourism, which contributes 4% to the gdp of our european union, or the seven million direct jobs it creates through more than two million enterprises, the vast majority of which are small and mediumsized. i therefore want to say that i am openly reaffirming the proposal to create a sufficient budget line in the union budget to support the tourism sector, as well as the other demands or amendments to the original text made by the committee on transport and tourism, such as a reduced rate of vat for catering, improving the vocational training of workers, introducing a european classification of tourist services and strengthening the rights of tourists and their protection as consumers. but there is one aspect of the excellent report by mr luis queiró which i would like to stress. i am referring to transport as the necessary support to ensure the mobility and movement of the millions of citizens who form the basis of tourism. i would like to draw particular attention to the transeuropean road transport networks which, every summer or holiday period, are congested by long queues of thousands of lorries and cars which have to stop repeatedly during excessive tolling on the same route. an example of this malfunction is often seen at the viriatu crossing between the spanish and french states, where there are five toll barriers within 50 kilometres.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work, his generosity and his willingness to integrate all opinions, and on his enthusiasm for tackling a subject such as european tourism, which, being one of the most dynamic and expanding economic sectors in the union, always appears as the poor sister of european policies, always begging for a solid legal basis on which to strengthen and give a european identity to this sector which, if today it appears vibrant, growing in the shadow of globalisation, brings its own erosion in that same growth and expansion, if it is not carefully framed in conditions of sustainability and guarantees of safety, quality and diversity, as well as in a high necessary professionalism and stability of workers and professionals. we need, therefore, commissioner, these framework conditions as soon as possible, this comprehensive policy which will help to make visible the richness and specificity of europe's historical and tourist heritage, which is an excellent basis both for strengthening european identity and cohesion and for publicizing our potential, our european model, abroad. in this context, we have proposed the creation of a tourist destination brand 'european union', which is characterised precisely by the enormous diversity, high social quality and sustainability of its tourist offer. we also believe that it is necessary to support the growing sector of medical tourism or thermal tourism, with important needs and benefits, but which must be sufficiently foreseen and framed; to strengthen the personal security of tourists, both european tourists abroad against risks such as prison or kidnapping problems, and risk tourists inside, through a compulsory assistance insurance, which would be necessary; to promote itinerant caravan and motorhome tourism as a good example of more sustainable, less crowded tourism; and to develop actions to make tourist establishments and services accessible to people with reduced mobility, but with sufficient publicity, because this is often not the case. finally, i would like to reiterate the invitation to the european commission, and especially to commissioner verheugen, to explore and study existing or new formulas to deal with the local and regional imbalances that seasonal concentration implies in countries like my own in the south. in that case, aspects or measures such as moratorium or even ecotourism, which are normal in northern europe, in your own country, on the beaches of the baltic, could also be applied in the south.
mr president, believe me, as a spaniard and as a valencian, i was very concerned about this report. i should like to begin by saying that the report by my colleague, mr queiro, has left me extraordinarily calm on this matter. i shall therefore limit myself here to reiterating some ideas, underlining others and adding some new ones. the report begins by stressing the importance of tourism from a cultural and economic point of view. from a cultural point of view, and since we have referred to our personal experiences, i believe that in my country the transition from dictatorship to democracy was possible because we wanted to be like other europeans, and we knew what europeans were like thanks to the phenomenon of tourism. and, thanks to the phenomenon of tourism as well, spain managed to start to get out of poverty and take off towards a new economic horizon. that would have justified more intensive treatment in the treaties, which has not happened. but since then new phenomena have taken place: increased travel, new technologies, increased life expectancy and income, which favour tourism for the elderly, and here i mean - without having heard it - he was kind enough to tell me that i would like to stress the proposal that my colleague, mr yanez, is going to make on this matter; pure intelligence is the measure. this increase in tourism has raised problems of sustainability, of ecological balance - which have been highlighted here - of physical security, of food security, of legal certainty in the case of delays, of breach of contracts, of time-sharing and of competitiveness; and here i would like to stress again the importance of the issue of value added tax in the special scheme for travel agencies and the reduced rate, to which my colleague mr sudre has referred. i would like to speak about something new, mr commissioner, which is not in the report: the compensation of the host countries by the countries of origin for the health services provided there. it seems to me a matter of extraordinary importance. i would like to end by congratulating my colleague from the bottom of my heart on his excellent work. chapeau, that's it.
mr president, i join in the warm congratulations that have been extended to mr queiró on his excellent report and i turn to the commissioner to say: 'günter, look at paragraph 28 of the report in which we propose to the commission that it should draw up a tourism programme for elderly people in the off-season, which we call ulises. in spain, this programme has been in existence for 20 years. it's the voyages of the imserso. check out their service, because they're a smashing success. the programme has five basic objectives: 1) to improve the quality of life of our elderly people with limited resources, many of whom have not had the opportunity to travel, to see the sea, to know other countries; 2) to create jobs in hotels, restaurants, transport, etc., which in the off-season have to close or drastically reduce their staff; 3) to generate demand and growth in the european economy through greater activity and consumption; 4) to promote european citizenship, as the socrates or erasmus programmes do for young people; 5) it is not an expense but an investment, because the spanish experience shows that the returns exceed 1.8% of what is budgeted annually by the government, and that is only through taxes and social security returns, not counting indirect and induced returns. we have named it ulises after the great traveller from ithaca, but if you wish, commissioner, if you propose it, we will call it the günter programme.
mr president, i would like to support mr yanez's proposal and highlight, as one of the most interesting contributions of this report, the proposal to set up the ulises programme. this is a very positive measure, not only in terms of improving the quality of life of older people, but also in terms of the benefits it can bring to established tourist areas, such as the balearic islands, the area of spain where i come from. the fact that tourism can be extended beyond the high season means that these areas will have more and better jobs, and that the offer will be more diversified, as it will allow not only sun and beach tourism but also cultural and environmental tourism to be welcomed. mr verheugen, it is very important that, in the spirit of this report, of sustainable tourism, respectful of the land and the environment, the commission should promote measures which will oblige the governments of tourist areas such as mine not to deviate in their actions from the direction set out in this report.
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful for those generous words by the questioner, and i would be happy to give him the affirmation of the point that he made in relation to mr charles clarke's speech earlier today here in this chamber. if i was to identify a single area where i found myself in absolute agreement on this issue with the home secretary, it was when he recognised that it is by greater cooperation, not by seeking to put up walls between us, that, collectively within the european union, we will be able to meet the challenge of the truly transnational nature, not just of the issues of people trafficking or drug trafficking, but also of organised crime and the challenge of terrorism. what the home secretary was able to communicate in this chamber today was the deep-seated belief within the uk government – and, indeed, of the presidency – that it is only by the kind of effective cooperation that we continue to support within europol that we will be able truly to harness the potential of all the law enforcement agencies across europe as, collectively, we strive to meet the challenge posed by the kind of threats that i have outlined in the course of my answer.
president-in-office of the council. the council has been informed of initial reactions to the justice and peace law by the united nations high commissioner for human rights, who drew attention to insufficiencies of the law as concerns impunity, provisions on investigating heinous crimes and due restitutions or reparations for victims. to prepare a thorough and comprehensive assessment of the situation by the council, european union heads of mission were asked to produce for september a considered analysis of the law and recommendations for the european union's policy, taking into account the council conclusions of december 2004. in this context, they will consult widely, including the government, civil society, the group of 24 and the united nations. as concerns police cooperation, the council is convinced that training police in colombia in accordance with the values and standards of the european union will contribute to security and greater respect for human rights.
president-in-office of the council. i have listened carefully to the terms of the questioner's supplementary. i would respectfully suggest that if he is concerned about and desirous of a thorough answer, then that rather vindicates the point that i sought to make in terms of the need for eu heads of mission to prepare a very thorough statement in terms of what should inform the european union's decision-making process. of course it is the case that the union is committed to helping colombia to resolve inter-related problems of internal armed conflict, trade in illegal drugs and human rights abuses about which he is rightly concerned. the council conclusions back in december underlined the importance of the establishment of a proper legal framework that addresses the issues of truth, justice and reparation for the victims of that armed conflict. however, i would reiterate the point i made in my initial answer, that we have a responsibility, given the need and seriousness of the issues that the questioner raised, to make sure that our decisions are informed by a thorough analysis of the true situation in colombia at the moment.
mr president, i would like to ask the presidency of the council whether it shares the statements made by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy and secretary-general of the council of ministers of the european union, mr solana, in support of president uribe's peace efforts in colombia; whether it thinks that the fact that a collective perpetrator of heinous crimes, such as the paramilitaries, is laying down its arms is good or bad news; and whether it thinks that a decision taken by a body, such as the democratically elected colombian parliament, is an illegitimate decision.
mr president, gender policies must be transversal and must permeate all the political, social and institutional dimensions. i think this report is a good example of this in relation to medical and health practices. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur, mrs svensson, as others have done. as several studies indicate, men and women are treated unequally in prescribing, treatment and medical and healthcare costs. to give examples mentioned in the report, women are victims of specific violence, genital mutilation, diseases such as osteoporosis, breast cancer and eating disorders, sexual exploitation and prostitution and insecurity in the workplace. these are specific issues that deserve specific treatment. among the reasons for our positive attitude to this report, i would like to highlight the insistence on the need for the states and the commission to adopt this gender perspective in their policies. that is why i also welcome the words of the commissioner at the beginning.
i would like to refer specifically to two diseases mentioned in the report: chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia. two invisible diseases, because of the difficulty of diagnosis and the lack of resources for research and treatment. it is estimated that 90% of those affected by these diseases are women. we are therefore clearly faced with two gender diseases. it is urgent to investigate the origin and causes of these diseases, to investigate further the treatments and to compare the results. to this end, it is essential to increase the resources devoted to research, improve the training of health professionals, organise information and social awareness campaigns, carry out studies on their social, legal, labour, economic and health impact, and promote and develop new techniques for early diagnosis and for the dissemination of prevention habits already in place. i would therefore ask the commission to carry out a study comparing the extent to which treatments are applied and their effects, both physical and psychological, in each of the member states, in order to find a solution to these diseases. it is essential to include a gender perspective in the formulation and implementation of health policies. fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue are not the only illnesses that affect mostly women. other diseases of the sexes mentioned more frequently in this debate, such as breast cancer and osteoporosis, are somewhat more advanced in terms of prevention, diagnosis and treatment, but in all cases further active progress is needed, further research and the public authorities' effective guarantee of the health of men and women.
mr president, i shall waste a few seconds complaining again that these debates are always held at night. we've met many times, and i think you presided over yourself, late at night, talking about women. we always talk about women late at night, and we could do it in the daylight sometime, mr. president. indeed, the inequality and discrimination faced by women is structural and sustained. women have always been caregivers and not so cared for. this is why there remains a very important imbalance between the level and quality of care for men and for women. but in europe we do share some common values - fairness, universality, solidarity - and therefore we must also apply the gender perspective, as the commissioner has very well said today, to the field of health. i welcome the initiative of the socialist ministers of the european union, meeting in sweden at the end of august, who have addressed the reduction of gender inequalities in health care and have expressed their concern about this. there are some important issues that the report should have dealt with in greater depth, and these relate in particular to sexual and reproductive health, as many of the speakers have already commented. violence has also been said to be a health issue, and there is another important issue: the difficulty that immigrant women have in approaching health systems, because they are afraid. i hope to see you again in the daytime.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, the european schools are important to the identity-building process and also to the making of a true european citizenship. europe – the eu – is an ongoing building process and its construction has been undertaken in a complex manner. education plays a very important and fundamental role. different eu education systems are entitled to spread the ideals and values that europe has traditionally inspired. from this, it will help to set up a sense of common european citizenship. the defence of pluralism and diversity has always been one of the core values that have influenced the european union. this is one of the myriad of reasons why a stateless nation's citizens continually advocate the whole idea of europe; we regard europe as our national environment. eu enlargement has provided all of us with a new challenge for european schools. this has to do with a new european union facing its work. such a moment will entail greater plurality and a healthy breath of fresh air for european schools. in a truly pluralist europe, i consider that real multilingualism cannot be just partially expressed and the real linguistic plurality of our continent has to be uncovered.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the northern dimension. i have the floor, on behalf of the commission, to speak to mr michel.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank parliament for the great interest it has shown in a subject which is obviously important. i would also like to thank the speakers who have expressed very generally positive reactions to the statement i have made on behalf of mrs benita ferrero-waldner. i would remind you that it is she who deserves the credit, since i was speaking on her behalf, and i will not fail to convey to her this general feeling of support. i will also convey all the suggestions and considerations expressed which do not necessarily correspond to the declaration, in particular those concerning the place, the role and the cooperation with russia. the russian economy is growing positively, so it is reasonable to assume that the european union's budgets in this area will not increase. however, the commission does not rule out the possibility of new partnerships if russia formally commits itself to the northern dimension. the comparison with the mediterranean - i make a small point - does not seem to me entirely appropriate in view of the different characteristics of the two regions, particularly with regard to economic indicators, the populations concerned, the number of countries concerned, etc. the commission is open to russia's proposals and contributions. russia should attend the ministerial meeting on the northern dimension on 21 november 2005 and then fully participate in all the activities of the northern dimension. russia is a strategic partner of the european union. the positive conclusions of the 10 may summit and the adoption of the roadmaps for the four common areas are evidence of this. our objective is to develop a joint eu-russia policy on the northern dimension, which would also involve norway and iceland. this policy should be in line with the common areas, aligned with those in the northern region and accompanied by a number of specific features. i now turn to the specific question of funding. it seems to me that the european community's support for the northern dimension must continue to be provided in the framework of the programmes currently being implemented, namely tacis and the european neighbourhood policy, and those which will be implemented in the future, in the framework of the proposed european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. it should also be noted that the recent extension of the european investment bank's lending possibilities to russia and the western nis will be useful in the infrastructure field. the northern dimension environmental partnership is proving useful in addressing very specific and urgent needs, thanks to the practical support of a wide range of donors. reproduction of these results in other areas is not excluded, but this would require a similar level of commitment from all donors. we must answer a question which has been raised many times because it is important, namely the option of a baltic strategy within the northern dimension. this option obviously has its merits, but i think we should remember that the commission is intervening in the baltic sea through the internal policies of the union. as we have already mentioned, eight of the nine countries bordering the baltic sea are member states. they benefit from the union's internal policies and programmes. we cannot forget the far north with its specific characteristics: it is not very populated, but it has a very important indigenous culture and its own environmental problems, such as the former russian nuclear bases on the kola peninsula. that, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is the answer we were going to give today, but i will of course convey very faithfully the sentiments, the considerations and the very strong commitment of the members who have spoken in this debate.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report (a6-0173/2005) by mr thierry cornillet, on behalf of the committee on development, on tourism and development (ini 2004/2212).
author. mr president, china is again the subject of debate in this house, and i fear that this will not be the last time we address the subject. the growing relations between the european union and china are a great opportunity for both sides, and i dare say, for the world in general. however, this relationship cannot be based solely on the improvement of trade relations between the two parties. if the european union is to have a credible policy towards china, it must be much clearer in demanding that china radically improve its human rights policy. the eu-china human rights dialogue is a good instrument for this, but i fear it is being clearly underused. there are several problems that china is not tackling responsibly, given its increasingly interdependent role in the world: freedom of association, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and even religious freedom. i am one of those who believe that government and public institutions should be secular in character and that it is fundamental to strive for the separation of political and religious powers, but i also believe that true secularism must guarantee freedom of religious practice in the private sphere. i am therefore concerned about the constant complaints from different groups about the difficulties they have in practicing their religion in china. just as i am opposed to a state financing or supporting one religion in a special way over others - i even denounced, for example, a few days ago that the commission had devoted so much money to the international youth days promoted by the catholic church - i also do not think it is acceptable for the institutions to pursue the individual right to religious freedom. this is a human rights issue which we must deplore and denounce. in short, what we are asking in this resolution is that the chinese authorities immediately put an end to all religious repression, ensure respect for international human rights standards and guarantee democracy, freedom of expression, association and the press, as well as, as the resolution says, religious freedom throughout the territory under the control of the chinese authorities.
the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and the rule of law, and we are convinced that the european union must continue to play a leading role in the fight against terrorism. we therefore call on the commission, the council and the member states to make it clear to the syrian authorities that the agreement currently being negotiated must include clear human rights clauses, as set out in the euro-mediterranean partnership. we also call, as mrs de keyser has done, for the establishment, in the context of the association agreement, of a subcommittee on human rights in relation to syria, as has already been done with jordan or morocco, with a view to developing a structured dialogue on human rights and democracy. this subcommittee would be a key element of the action plan. finally, once again, the importance of consulting and involving civil society in the work of the subcommittee should be stressed, in order to better monitor the human rights situation.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 8 september 2005.
the first thing we should do today is to welcome our romanian and bulgarian colleagues, and i shall do so expressly in the statement to the house which i shall make immediately after the adoption of the agenda. at the moment, all i can say to our colleagues is dobre doshli and bun venit.
we shall be adopting the agenda for this part-session and the october part-session, as established by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 22 september, in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of our rules of procedure. monday, tuesday and wednesday: no amendment proposal has been tabled. thursday: the group of the european people's party, and if i am correctly informed, only it - and not the liberal group, as i was told at one point - is asking for the debate on tunisia to be replaced by the issue of minorities in vojvodina. i have mr watson's confirmation of that. i agree, so it is only the ppe group that has put forward the proposal. the socialist group in the european parliament has also asked for the debate on uzbekistan to be replaced by the subject 'minorities in vojvodina'. mr. schulz, please clarify.
apart from mr cohn-bendit, it is also appropriate that others should know what we are discussing. (laughter) so the point is to replace the uzbekistan theme with voivodina, as proposed by the socialist group. does the ppe group stand by its proposal?
then withdraw your proposal. wednesday 12 and thursday 13 october 2005:no amendments proposed. (the order of business is thus established) now, if i may, i shall give a solemn welcome to our colleagues in the context of a statement which i shall read out to you.
ladies and gentlemen, we should indeed give our warmest welcome today to the observers from bulgaria and romania who are already sitting in our parliament. their presence reminds us that in may last year the fifth enlargement of the european union was left unfinished while romania and bulgaria were waiting to complete the accession process. it is also good to remember that our parliament gave its opinion in accordance with the treaty of accession of these countries, which is being ratified by the member states, and i think we can all say today that we hope that the date of accession will indeed be the date envisaged, 1 january 2007. i am sure that no one will spare any effort, that we will all do everything in our power, including romania and bulgaria, to make this a reality. i would like to say to our new colleagues today that we look forward to their contributions to our debates and wish them the greatest success in their parliamentary work. but, ladies and gentlemen, the arrival of our bulgarian and romanian colleagues comes at a particularly difficult time for the european union. the institutions are functioning normally on a day-to-day basis, nothing unusual is happening in the normal life of the union, but the european project is suffering from an identity crisis which we should not hide. some of the voices we have heard in recent days say that the european union could do without a vision of its future, and that it would be enough for the union to improve the functioning of its markets and to continue to expand. for some, this would be enough. however, in my opinion, the problem is deeper. the problem is the political dimension of the european project and its geographical dimension. today both the political and the geographical dimensions are at an impasse and the european parliament must play a powerful role in helping to break out of it. our institution must make a powerful contribution to getting out of this situation. ladies and gentlemen, a little over a year ago i set out the priorities of our parliamentary work. but, believe me, we could hardly have imagined then, in september last year, what our present circumstances would be. we could hardly have imagined the situation we find ourselves in today. i therefore think that we should review what has happened this year and re-examine our objectives for the parliamentary year which is now beginning. let us ask ourselves collectively what we have achieved from what we set out to do a year ago and how we are going to approach the parliamentary year which is now beginning at this critical stage of european construction. we also welcomed new colleagues a year ago. a year ago we welcomed colleagues from 10 new member states and then we wondered, in the joy of reunification, whether we would be able to work together, to bring together such different parliamentary cultures; whether we would be able to overcome the challenge, unique in the world, of working in 20 different languages, which are not yet enough to reflect the linguistic diversity of the union. i believe that after a year, a year of intense activity in every respect, we can say that this challenge has been met and that the parliament of the enlarged union is functioning satisfactorily. i want to thank you all for your contribution to this success. i also announced to you a year ago my determination to conclude the complex and sensitive issue of the statute for members. you will recall that everyone agreed that this was a priority, and i was very encouraged to try to find a solution to it. well, today we can say: mission accomplished. thanks to the invaluable contribution of the luxembourg presidency, the council agreed in july to the text adopted by parliament, which i will sign next wednesday. this is a very important agreement for our institution, the absence of which has long been a poison to our public image. i would now like to point out that, from the point of view of our operating rules, we have to set ourselves two objectives: the regulation on parliamentary assistants and the reform of the financial regulation so that the union can manage its resources more effectively. there is a broad consensus on this. without prejudice to sound management, the union needs a financial rule to enable it to function more effectively. we already have a draft which the commission has sent us. and i propose that we set ourselves the objective of having this new financial regulation come into force together with the 2007 budget. a year ago, too, the inauguration of the new commission was looming, and then, as you will remember, we went through a period of turbulence. but today i think we can say that the european parliament has gained in maturity, in legitimacy, in credibility and in visibility in public opinion. and that our cooperation with the commission is based on solid foundations. after that hectic inauguration, we negotiated a framework agreement between parliament and the commission. an agreement which will enable us to make substantial progress in the field of information and democratic control. i congratulate myself on that, too. and in its implementation, the conference of presidents will receive mr barroso in two days' time to learn firsthand the approaches that the commission has announced for this course. it is also a year since the tragic end of the beslan hostages overshadowed our plenary session. i therefore stressed the need to promote the european area of security and justice by actively promoting an anti-terrorist strategy. but a year later, the terrorist barbarism is still active. london was the latest casualty on european soil, but iraq is every day. the terrorist threat is greater today and it will not go away anytime soon. it will test the capacity of european society to deal with it in a way that respects our democratic values. the balance between freedom and security will therefore be a permanent part of our debate. it was already the case in the last plenary session when we heard minister clarke, and it will continue to be the case in the future. on the other hand, we are all aware that terrorism blurs the distinction between internal affairs and foreign policy and that today, whether we like it or not, it appears to be directly linked to immigration problems. we must therefore fight terrorism together with our neighbours and partners in the islamic world, especially in the mediterranean and the middle east. ladies and gentlemen, let me pause here for a moment to say that one of the great questions for the future of the european union is its relationship with the muslim world. perhaps the most important. i propose that we use the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, which now presides over the european parliament, to develop this relationship in a positive way, avoiding the terrorist threat and the tensions generated by immigration from turning into islamophobia, which would be the greatest success of terrorists. i also spoke to you a year ago about two issues which were fundamental then and which are even more important today. i am referring, as you know, to the constitutional treaty and the financial perspective. in both cases parliament has done what we set out to do. as regards the constitutional treaty, we had a great debate which ended with a majority support for the treaty. thirteen countries have ratified it, but the 'notes' from france and the netherlands have, as you know, led the council to set up a period of reflection, to which i shall refer later. in the financial perspective we were able to draw up an ambitious and reasonable proposal through an ad hoc committee which allowed the coordination of all the points of view involved. in this way parliament has its own position with which to analyse the positions of the other institutions. we know what we want and we've said it. we must assess our position on the commission's, which we also know, and on the council's, which we are awaiting. because, indeed, the council was not able to reach an agreement. and i am very much afraid that this was not due to problems with the constitution but to a worrying lack of community spirit and a growing devaluation of the idea of european solidarity. ladies and gentlemen, we have come this far down this road. what else and how should we do from now on? in my view, the most urgent, the most important, at least the most urgent, is the financial perspective. and it is good to remember that an agreement in the council is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the union to have this multiannual financial framework. i have said this to the members of the council on several occasions: an agreement between you would be of no use if it could not be accepted by parliament, because it is an interinstitutional agreement to which the three institutions are parties. i would urge the council to do its duty and reach an agreement during the british presidency, because afterwards it will be too late, or much more complicated. the british presidency, in its brilliant speech at the beginning of its mandate, seemed to have ideas for reaching agreement on a better structure of community spending. the european parliament recalls that it is urgent to turn these ideas into reality. in the meantime we must continue to work on the legislative programmes. i know that drawing up these programmes without knowing the resources allocated to each spending programme complicates our work, but it does not make it impossible. i must tell you that the commission and the council have asked me very insistently to continue working on these legislative programmes, because they are essential for implementing the 2007 budget. in the coming days the conference of presidents will have to decide how to do this and ask the relevant committees to act in a coordinated manner in accordance with its guidelines. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a slight solemnity, taking advantage of the presence of the british deputy prime minister, whom i thank for his dedication to parliament. the union needs the financial perspective for the period 2007-13. but it needs even more, it is essential for the union, a budget that can be implemented from 1 january 2007. not having it would be dramatic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that possibility exists. and i want to make sure that parliament will now take up its responsibilities, as laid down in the treaties, to ensure that the union, with or without a financial perspective, has an executable budget for 2007. it would be a new situation, but if it does arise we should deal with it in a democratic way. and then there is the other big question of substance: the future of the union and its relationship with the constitutional treaty. as you know, the council has agreed to a period of reflection until next spring; i say, a period of reflection. it is not a pause, a word which you will see does not appear at all in the council conclusions. it was, but it's not in the final conclusions. and indeed, other countries have continued their ratification processes after that council, including, by referendum, luxembourg. but it is clear that, while we are reflecting, we will continue to work for some time with what we have: the treaty of nice. there is no crisis of daily functioning. there is no legal loophole. it's a no-brainer to say. but in politics, stating the obvious sometimes makes sense. it is not a mere useless reminder, and when we recall this obvious fact, we must say that the problems of the future for which the constitutional treaty proposed a solution remain. the problems remain. and the solution to the union's institutional problems is not a mere matter of decoration. institutions must be properly designed to enable them to work effectively. everyone can now see that there was no plan b, no alternative to the constitutional treaty. there is no plan b, but together we have devised plan d: d of democracy and debate. and it is precisely democracy and debate that define the essence of a parliament. this is why this parliament, which saw the last great democratic debate on the union with the speeches of mr juncker and mr blair, this parliament which lived through that great moment of parliamentary democracy, must continue along this line and, why not, invite the heads of state and government of the countries in which the results of the referendums were particularly significant to continue this debate which was so brilliantly launched. the committee on constitutional affairs is also working on a report on this period of reflection and will submit proposals to us in due course. ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that a year ago i considered that the ratification would be a decisive moment in talking to europeans about europe. the great opportunity to talk about europe to europeans, he said, and i honestly never thought that it would be such an opportunity to talk about europe to europeans. in the wake of what has happened, we must encourage a great debate among europeans throughout europe, decentralised, of course, in collaboration with the national parliaments, of course, but also with all the expressions of civil society. we have all the time we need. let us do it, perhaps with less passion than during the referendum campaigns, but with more and better information. i have just received a letter from president barroso, and i have had working meetings with the vice-president here, in which he proposes that we work together in this area. and of course we will do so, both with the commission and with the council, because we are all convinced that the europe we are going to build will not be technocratic or bureaucratic and that is why parliament must develop its whole raison d'être. now let me get back to our legislative task. i think our balance is positive. but we must emphasize more the added value that europe has for europeans and we will have the opportunity to do so when we discuss the reach directive - the kind of directive, by the way, that the commission announces that it will never again send - the directive on services, on working time, air safety, rail traffic. and also the issues of security and justice. and turkey too, because a year ago we decided to take a stand on turkey. we did it. our stance had a certain political impact. and we shall be reviewing the situation on wednesday, on the eve of the opening of negotiations. we are certainly at a historic moment and parliament must give its opinion on the protocol to the eu-turkey association agreement which has given rise to the problems we all know and which the british presidency is working to solve. the european parliament is essential to defining the balance between freedom and security in the fight against terrorism. if europe is to have a counter-terrorism policy which redefines the relationship between freedom and security, this parliament must be fully present. this was provided for in the constitutional treaty, with important progress in the role of our parliament in this area. but without a constitutional treaty, it is positive that at the last informal council of ministers of the interior, the council and the commission agreed to give parliament full participation in defining this balance. if that were the case, and i hope it is, i think it would be a great example of cooperation between the three institutions and the best way of defining a counter-terrorism policy fully taken on by european society. in conclusion, let me refer to the question of the quality and relevance of european legislation. what legislation we produce, what quality it has, what issues it deals with, is it relevant, is it well done; better regulation is a matter of fashion. it is not a new matter, each commission announces its willingness to simplify the acquis communautaire. i think this is the third time, at least, that the committees have announced that this is going to be the case. but there is the present situation, and the president of the commission has recently announced his intention to withdraw several dozen legislative proposals. on the formal side, i have reminded the commission of its obligation under our framework agreement to inform parliament before withdrawing such proposals and to do so without this obligation to inform being a mere formality and devoid of substance. we do not yet know what these texts are, and i am sure that president barroso will inform us of this, but i must warn you at this stage that, depending on the state of progress of their processing in the council and in parliament, their withdrawal could raise legal problems which parliament wishes to resolve positively. that's the thing about form. it is true that the european union sometimes treats many issues in great detail. but in addition to avoiding too much detail in legislation, it would also be good to ask ourselves whether the european edifice is not lacking in some master beams to ensure the solidity of the whole. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. for example, i am informed that there are currently 56 directives regulating the labelling of products. if it were true that there are 56 directives regulating product labelling in europe, this body of legislation would need to be consolidated. in this context, the british presidency has called for an extraordinary summit at the end of october, at which i shall have the honour of representing our institution, whose participation has been growing, and i think that should satisfy us. we do not yet know the agenda for that summit, but it is certain that the question of the famous european social model will be one of the main topics for discussion. this social model, which some people consider to be non-existent and others to be multiform, is a priority subject of our debate. because it is nothing other than the debate on the response of european society to economic globalisation. something momentous for the future of our society. the work of our committees and the debate we will have in the house in the presence of the british prime minister, who will be here to debate with parliament on the eve of that summit, will be very important in this respect. i must also say that on all my trips this year i have seen that the union's foreign policy is no longer the exclusive domain of governments; that on all my visits to third countries i have seen that parliamentary diplomacy is gaining in maturity and responsibility, in particular thanks to the excellent cooperation with the council and the commission. and i must also tell you that everywhere i hear people say that they need europe and often complain that it is not enough. perhaps non-europeans feel the need for europe more than we do. ladies and gentlemen, analyzing the democracy that was being born in america, a democracy like the one we now intend to build, supranational, tocqueville said that nations, like men, only reach a greater destiny through dialogue and political debate. i would like to invite you to bring this spirit to life in the debate on the future of europe, in our respective states and in the european institutions. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. mr president, let me begin by joining president borrell and others who have welcomed our friends from bulgaria and romania as observers. this will be a very important step towards helping the final preparations for membership. the commission will continue to actively assist your efforts and we look forward to working with you. let me also add that i have followed the reports about the floods and their effects in your countries during the summer. i hope you are aware of the solidarity we feel and know that we will respond to any requests for assistance you may have. i wish to make two comments, firstly on the constitution, because it is important for everybody to see the role of the commission in this matter. from the very beginning, the commission not only supported the constitution, but was also actively involved in the work of the convention. this was discussed every week at the commission. we continue to support the constitution. we all agree that it might not be a perfect document, but we support it and we have worked actively on it. after the negative referendums in france and the netherlands, we all know it is unlikely that the constitution will be ratified by all member states in the foreseeable future. that does not mean that we will not continue to work actively on the political agenda in order to deliver concrete results for the citizens of europe. the commission will continue to ensure that we work on our political priorities and deliver on them. we must also use this period of reflection to engage in a dialogue with citizens. this is the only way to ensure that we can gain their full support for a new constitution. we want to find a common understanding with member states on the way forward, with the help of the european parliament. that is why even before the summer we started to draw up what we call 'plan d' for debate, dialogue and democracy. at our seminar last week, we discussed a number of very concrete ideas on how we could engage in that kind of dialogue with member states. it has to be a very broad agenda aimed at continuing the dialogue beyond the lifetime of the current commission or parliament. this is not only a rescue operation for the constitution, but must also be a new way of engaging with citizens. president barroso and i will present our preliminary ideas on this plan d to the conference of presidents on wednesday. a communication to the council and parliament is also being prepared and i hope that a formal version of this will be ready later this week to give you an opportunity to react to it. last week president barroso sent a letter to president borrell proposing that we identify initiatives where the commission and parliament could cooperate and also that our respective services meet as soon as possible to discuss such initiatives. the best way to overcome the current crisis is to convince europeans of the relevance of europe. therefore, our primary concern is to deliver on our policy priorities. our objectives of prosperity, solidarity and security are still valid and indeed are more relevant than ever. they are in tune with what people in europe want when we ask them through the euro-barometer polls – more and better jobs; preserving social and territorial cohesion; managing the earth's resources in a sustainable way; and reinforcing security in europe and the world as a whole. secondly, on the subject of better regulation, i first of all want to thank parliament for its cooperation on the signing of a new framework agreement. since this is my responsibility, i will be taking great care to make sure that we abide by the framework agreement. that is why i have studied the events which prompted criticism and unease on the part of members of parliament over the question of better regulation. better regulation has been on the agenda of our institutions for a long time. since 2003, we have been working together on better law-making. an interinstitutional agreement was signed that year, aimed at simplifying and improving community regulation. this commission made a renewed and strong commitment to better regulation at the beginning of its mandate, and better regulation at all levels has also become a central plank of the revised lisbon strategy. my colleague, mr verheugen, has kept this house regularly informed about the commission's approach and, having looked at the calendar, i see that there have been at least ten occasions, including the preliminary hearings, on which this house has been informed about the agenda on better regulation, in addition to the general information provided in interviews and on other occasions. it is a three-pillar approach which includes: screening of pending legislation with a view to withdrawing proposals which do not meet the criteria; the simplification exercise; and the upgrading of methods for preparing new legislative proposals, including impact assessments. tomorrow, the commission will discuss and endorse the results of the screening exercise and put forward the list of legislative proposals it considers should be withdrawn. it is the first time that the whole college has had the opportunity to decide on that. it has been a thorough and extensive exercise and we propose to withdraw about one-third of the 183 pending proposals. this will be done in full respect of the relevant provisions of the revised framework agreement. pursuant to article 12 of the framework agreement, commissioner verheugen will submit our proposal to parliament before it is made public – it will be presented here in full tomorrow, immediately after the commission has discussed it.with reference to article 32 of the framework agreement, our proposal, which is a political decision at this stage, is intended as prior notification to the other institutions and, in line with established practice, the legal act of withdrawal will be taken in three months' time. this exercise has been long announced and the commission has been open both on the methods and the objectives. we do not believe that any of the statements released to the press by individual commissioners or by the president can be seen as undermining the prerogative of the commission to act as a college or the commitments made to the other institutions. if you wish, i can provide the full list, detailing the series of occasion when these proposals were presented to this house in different forums – whether in the committees or in the form of decisions. i accept that there is always scope for improving communication and trust between our two institutions. i would like to reaffirm my personal commitment to keeping this objective high on the commission agenda. i shall not miss any opportunity to remind colleagues that it is here that proposals should first be presented. (applause)
thank you very much, madam vice-president of the commission. mrs berès has asked to speak. please indicate the article of the regulation to which you refer.
i thank you for your comments on the progress of our work, but we can only follow the order in which we have approved it. the debate is closed.
mr president, i rise to speak on behalf of mr pittella, of italy, and mr madeira, of portugal, to ask the council's presidency-in-office to take up the criteria proposed by the commission for the regions affected by the statistical effect in the proposals it is to present, namely the need to support them without shameful discrimination between them, because, as i said in this house on 9 march, it is a matter of dignity, of making european policy understandable, of making it equal, balanced and democratic, true to its roots and its ambitions.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr commissioner, welcome to this house. my role in this debate is solely to give evidence of what has happened in this parliament on the subject of comitology and to support in all its strength the position of the rapporteur, my colleague mr radwan. the problems with comitology started some years ago when the commission sent parliament the financial services action plan which envisaged the rapid implementation of some 40 measures in the financial services sector. we were told then that the ordinary legislative procedure was too slow to adapt to the speed of the financial markets. i would like to say that in the vast majority of cases the fault for this delay was not parliament but the council. the next step is taken in the report called lamfalussy, by the person who directed its preparation, which, in order to provide a solution, to adapt the speed of the procedure to the speed of the markets, proposed splitting the rules into two levels. the first level is general principles, basic guidelines. the second level is the specific legal rules. level one, codecision. level two, total exclusion from parliament. we were asked to renounce the prerogatives that constitute privileges, the basic rules of any european parliament. the european parliament was right to express its misgivings. we simply wanted to be in the same position as the council. in case of overreach, in case the president did not comply with the content of the mandate, we wanted a revocation, which is called a call-back. it was not possible at the time, because the treaties did not allow it, and we were waiting for the constitution. we are in a transitional situation, a 'transitional sub-scale', and that is why i am appealing here to the expiry clause to which mr radwan has referred. until then, it will be necessary to reach an agreement which harmonizes the two objectives: speed in the legislative procedure and respect for the powers of parliament, powers which, as in the case of any parliament, have been withdrawn with difficulty over time. finally, i would like to justify our misgivings by recalling a spanish politician, known for his skill and ability to cheat the rules, who said: 'you make the law, let me make the regulation'. that is the danger we are concerned about.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i think that the audit project can be seen as an example of collaboration between the various groups in the european parliament and between the european parliament and the other institutions: the council and the commission. the rapporteur has made every effort to involve us in the drafting of the text and in his meetings with the council and the commission, so that this project will contribute to the harmonisation of european legislation in such an important area as auditing, which has caused so much concern in public opinion after the enron and parmalat scandals. it will be a minimum framework, leaving the states with the greatest capacity, experience and proximity to carry out inspections. the most controversial aspects of the european commission's proposal include the rotation of firms, auditors and partners, in order to reduce the potential for convergence of interests between auditors and auditors. after much effort we have succeeded in opening the door to rotation of firms, and not just of partners, by allowing each state to adopt as an alternative the rotation of audit firms, that is, external rotation. amendments on independence have been accepted. i hope that the future will show us their usefulness, for they are the guarantee of a necessary confidence in the markets. the project maintains the same responsibility for auditors as for other professionals. in my view, equal treatment in this area and the safety of citizens and customers must be guaranteed. however, i do not hide my doubts about the incentive that the new rules should provide to increase the number of large audit firms, avoiding the oligopoly problems that affect the sector and to which the commissioner has referred. with the enron case, arthur andersen disappeared and of the so-called big five, only four remain. a new scandal that would destroy the confidence in another large audit firm could be fatal, not only to the firm concerned, but also to the stability of the system. that is why i have advocated from the outset not to leave everything to the self-control of the audit firms themselves and to support the control carried out by the public authorities, since not only the viability of a company is at stake, but also the health of the financial system. i would like to congratulate mr doorn once again.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their contributions and for their great work in getting this very important directive dealt with. at the outset i probably should have declared that in my past life i was an auditor and i still pay an annual subscription to the irish institute of chartered accountants, even though, as i have said to many people, i would not like to be too reliant on any set of accounts i would now prepare for anybody. i suppose i should have said that at the outset. mr doorn and others raised the question of audit reliability and personally i take a great interest in this particular area. i have urged my services to treat this issue with great urgency. the study will be commissioned shortly so that we should be ready to put forward our findings before the end of 2006. that is our intention and hopefully it will be possible to adhere to that timetable with some ease. the question was also raised about audit committees. audit committees are often necessary to help auditors keep their backs straight against possible pressure from management. the european parliament and the council support the view that as much leeway as possible should be left to the member states of the eu to invent their own system for audit committees of listed companies as long as they perform all the functions listed in our directive. we have been flexible here to accommodate these concerns as far as possible. perhaps, as mrs mccarthy said, you can have to best rules-based system in the world, or at least think you have the best rules-based system in the world, but it will never prevent a scandal or fraud if more than two people collude in trying to ensure that some fraudulent activity takes place; no matter whether or not we have a rules-based system – and remember, they had a rules-based system in the united states for some time and it did not prevent any of the scandals on that side of the atlantic, and nor of course will an absolutely principles-based system either. no auditing procedures in the world and no internal control mechanisms put in place will be able to 100% guarantee that fraud or financial wrongdoing will never take place. however, it should, after the shortest possible period of time, allow people to find out exactly what is going on. it is very important for business and for everybody that people have confidence in the auditing profession, confidence in the independence of auditors, in the type of standards that they adhere to and in the ethics of the profession. i am afraid that i would have to accept, as an erstwhile member of that profession, that the scandals of recent years have undermined the public's confidence in the auditing and accounting profession. i think that goes without saying and it is the job of the profession to make sure that confidence is restored and that the various changes that have been made, both within the profession and now by the european institutions, as well as what hopefully the members states will do, will give people greater cause to believe that the standards of the auditing profession are as high as we can make them. again as i have said, the question of comitology was raised as it was in the previous debate, and i repeat that the proposal to suspend it after two years, except for article 26, is acceptable to the commission in this particular directive. i thank the members for their detailed contributions.
member of the commission. mr president, before outlining the commission's position on this dossier, let me first thank the committee on fisheries and especially the rapporteur, mrs fraga estévez, for her excellent work carried out within the very tight deadlines. i am happy to be able to present to you the draft proposal for the conclusion of the protocol setting out the tuna fishing opportunities and financial contribution under the eec-comoros agreement. as the honourable members know, the community has a longstanding relation with the comoros in the fisheries area. the first fisheries agreement with the country dates back to 1988. although it is the smallest tuna agreement, it is of importance due to the strategic location of this fishery in the indian ocean as well as for the fishing possibilities obtained. the new protocol, which was initialled on 24 november 2004, covers a 6-year period from 1 january 2005 to 31 december 2010. the protocol grants fishing opportunities for 40 tuna seiners and 17 surface longliners and has a financial contribution of eur 390 000 per year. the agreement is one that is of mutual benefit to both parties and contains a number of new elements including the following. firstly, an exclusivity clause, which prohibits the existence of private licences or other private arrangements outside the scope of the agreement. secondly, a vms requirement to reinforce checks on vessels operating in comorian waters. thirdly, the social clause applicable to local seamen signed on by community vessels. fourthly, rules on taking on board observers and, fifthly, adjustment of the share-out of the cost of the agreement between the community and shipowners from a ratio of eur 75/25 per tonne to eur 65/35 per tonne, which is already applied in other tuna agreements in the pacific. this increase of the shipowners' share of the cost will gradually be applied to all tuna agreements in the community as was called for in the reform of the common fisheries policy. i believe that these new elements introduced in dialogue with the comoros authorities and according to the principles set out in the new fisheries partnership agreements will ensure that the comoros agreement contributes to responsible and sustainable fisheries in the comoros. this work includes the establishment of annual and multi-annual objectives, the distribution of the part of the financial compensation – 60%, the aims to be attained and criteria and procedures in order to allow for an evaluation of the yearly results obtained in accordance with article 7 of the protocol. let me now turn to the amendments. on amendment 1, the commission is of the opinion that this is not necessary, given that the procedure for the adoption of the new framework agreement – the fisheries partnership agreement – will soon be launched. on amendments 2, 3 and 5, the commission is entirely in agreement with their spirit. however, the commission already complies with the transmission of this kind of information in line with both the current inter-institutional arrangements and in particular with the framework agreement between the commission and the european parliament. therefore, the commission considers that these amendments are not necessary. on amendment 4, may i recall the basic community provisions concerning the mandate of the commission to negotiate on behalf of the community. the council has authorised the commission to negotiate fisheries agreements and arrangements between the community and the comoros. against this background, the periodic renewal does not require a new mandate each time. amendment 6 cannot be accepted by the commission. the commission has established a constant dialogue with the industry within the framework of a special sectoral group. this group meets on a regular basis and discusses upcoming negotiations and any other technical issues. in addition, experts from member states are invited to be present during the negotiations of a fisheries agreement or protocol.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am sure that this house, like the committee on fisheries, will support the signing of this fisheries agreement between the european union and the comoros, which gives continuity to previous protocols and will allow 57 community vessels to fish until 2010. this agreement is also a further step in the new model of association agreements designed to encourage even greater cooperation and involvement in the development of the third country's fisheries sector. however, while supporting the principles underlying this model, we must insist that it is far from clear. firstly, it is the first report to parliament in which the commission has unilaterally and without the third country's request decided to raise the fee paid by shipowners per tonne caught from eur 25 to eur 35, or 40%, and without consulting them. the commission defends itself by saying that the increase was foreseen in the 2004 council of ministers conclusions, but what we all deduced from those conclusions was that a gradual increase in the fees would be undertaken, when in reality it has been an escalation by decree and quite brutal. this parliament, like the industry, is faced with a policy of fait accompli, carried out by the commission's negotiators at their own risk and expense, and without us having the opportunity to examine these decisions more than in the past, when the signed and initialled protocol reaches our committee - of course with increasing delays. our institution cannot agree to perpetuate this situation of obscurantism. i therefore propose in my report that shipowners should now be able to be present in the joint committees so that they can at least be informed in real time of what is being prepared for them. as far as parliament is concerned, i would like to take this opportunity to ask again - and this time i am addressing the council, which is absent - that a member of the committee on fisheries be present as an observer at the negotiations. we do not understand their opposition, because an observer cannot interfere with decisions, but instead we would be better informed, which can be no bad thing, unless the negotiators have something to hide. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. from the point of view of budgetary transparency, this situation is unacceptable. the commission is clearly aware of this and has acknowledged to the committee on fisheries that it is not complying with this obligation. but he doesn't give the slightest explanation of what has led him to do so, at least in this case. finally, mr president, in the interests of this necessary simplification and after a commendable period of patience on the part of this parliament, the time has come to ask the commission to present its model for regional agreements and, in particular, the tuna model agreement. as you know, the tuna fleet applies for fishing licences from each country in the area in order to be able to follow the tuna banks that pass through the various fisheries. today, this means that a considerable number of seamen from each country must be on board, making each ship a miniature un, with sometimes insurmountable problems of language, customs, traditions and even space, not to mention cost. it is a totally absurd situation, to which is added the lack of concreteness of some of the more pragmatic aspects, such as the very definition of what a tide is or, for example, the mechanics of electronic transmissions. it may be normal for negotiators to miss these details, but if you put yourself in the shoes of a fishing master for a moment you will realise that in the end his main concern is administrative and staffing issues rather than the fishing itself. mr president, while i am certainly calling for the approval of this agreement, which is fundamental for the european supply of tuna and for the comorian fisheries sector, i would like to see the comments made here taken into account.
mr president, the speakers before me did not even bother to visit the countries with which we signed fisheries agreements; i did: i was in the comoros, i lived with the people, i saw how they live and i saw the importance of this agreement for the economic development of these islands. so i think it's okay to say nonsense without any preparation. i agree with the rapporteur on this point. i believe that this is an important agreement for us and for the people of the comoros and i therefore approve its wording. the agreement helps to maintain the stability of the sector here and contributes to the development of those countries. it is a transition from the first purely trade agreements to agreements with which we are helping these countries to develop. the current structure of the agreements helps the development of these countries. we could probably do more if we had more participation from fishermen and shipowners. the proposals made by the committee on fisheries in this connection are reasonable and i strongly support them; they would help us to eliminate bureaucratic red tape. we also need a general policy for the whole of the indian ocean, where the european union's presence is very small in comparison with the exploitation of resources by asian countries such as taiwan, japan and the republic of korea, which are exploiting these resources to the detriment of the population. the exploitation of the european union is very moderate and i certainly join the rapporteur in protesting against a kind of discrimination, whereby in the agreements with the southern zone it is the fishermen who have to pay, while in the agreements with the northern zone there is no such increase in the fees that they now want to impose on us. in any case, the agreement is important for us and for the countries in this area and i would certainly like to see it continued along these lines in other respects. there would perhaps be reasons to oppose this, given the considerations i have outlined earlier, but i believe that the european union has an obligation to continue to deepen this type of relationship. these countries, and the comoros in particular, are in desperate need of our presence. the comoros are three small islands in the indian ocean, they do not really have a great strategic position, they are in the mozambique channel, their citizens are affected by all possible diseases - dengue, malaria, yellow fever and others - and, precisely, the great problem these islands have is the absence of elements for development. i believe that the fisheries agreement can and should help, provided that we involve our seamen and our fishermen much more in the economic development of these islands, for their own benefit and also for the benefit of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, if i were exiled to a deserted island in the farthest sea from here, which would be the pacific, and someone asked me what products of european agriculture i would take with me, i would say two bottles, apart from bread. of those two bottles, one would be wine and the other olive oil. and since i am from la rioja, of course, the wine would be a rioja, whose reputation i would say is international and whose fame and prestige are due to an ancestral wine culture. before the roman invasion, vineyards were already being cultivated and wine was being produced in la rioja. there are therefore very old production methods which guarantee a high quality of the product. i therefore believe that the agreement concluded with the united states could open up a way of reexamining our wine culture in depth, which would not always work in our favour, because, fortunately or unfortunately, the commercial success of our wines has always been linked to a method of production which respects the purest definitions of wine with great zeal. the final authorization of the import of wines treated with dubious oenological practices very different from our own could shake our own wine culture, on which i insist the commercial success of our products has always been based. because how long could the european union continue to ban the use of glasses in wine maturation or the addition of water, if it is legitimising the import of wines made with these practices? it is clear that the chapter on oenological treatments will be one of the main issues that will receive special attention in the forthcoming reform of the wine sector of the wto, because the agreement which the european commission has just concluded with the united states will, i fear, have repercussions that go beyond trade with that country. my region, la rioja, is fortunate enough to enjoy a shielded position in the united states market, but the same cannot be said of other community designations such as burgundy, port, malaga and jerez wines, which are still considered by that country to be 'semi-generic'. the agreement reached does not contain a firm commitment by the united states to stop usurping these appeals. i would therefore like to call on the european commission to include the establishment of an international register of geographical indications and designations of origin as one of the main priorities in the negotiations at the world trade organisation. the current negotiations at the world trade organisation are a golden opportunity which we cannot let slip by. the commission should also urge the united states to stop using the names protected in the european union on a bilateral basis within the two-year deadline referred to in the recent wine agreement.
mr president, commissioner, it is true that after 20 years of contacts between the european union and the united states, a first agreement has been reached. but we understand it only as a starting point from which we do not consider that we should feel satisfied. i agree with most of the speeches made by this parliament and above all i hope that the commission will take note of them, because i have not heard a single voice satisfied with the agreement. these first agreements do not guarantee effective protection of european designations of origin. however, they do leave the community market open to american wines with oenological practices not authorized in the european union, as is the case with aguado. it will be difficult for our wines, which are produced traditionally and according to very high quality standards, to compete with those produced by much less expensive industrial processes. my country, spain, considers this first agreement to be disappointing and we look forward to a much more decisive second phase. we are concerned, among many other things, and particularly, about the issue of the semigeneric; we believe that they have been the big losers. it is true that the united states has undertaken not to use typical european names, but only for wines exported to third countries. in this way, they will be able to continue to use the same qualifications as they have done so far in their territory, with the added complication that us legislation considers qualifications of my land, such as jerez and málaga, to be semi-generic and not designations of origin. the second phase of the negotiations will soon begin, and we ask this parliament to defend geographical indications more clearly in these negotiations, for which it is necessary to open a debate on the future of semi-generic terms. there is a need for dialogue on traditional terms, certifications and oenological practices and, above all, the creation of a joint committee on wine matters. in order to move forward at a better pace than has been achieved so far, this parliament is offering to work with the commission; we are going to adopt a resolution which we must take into account so that what has happened to us so far does not happen again. it would also be desirable if the committee on agriculture and rural development could draw up an own-initiative report so that what has happened will not happen again and that parliament's opinion will be taken into account in an attempt to save the wine sector in europe.
mr president, commissioner, i can only understand your complacency about the signing of this agreement because it has brought twenty years of negotiations to an end and because the united states absorbs 40% of the foreign market for our wines. but, commissioner, in the first phase, the united states has achieved 100 per cent of its aims and we have left european interests for the second phase. once again our opponent in the negotiation has charged up front. and, commissioner, we have lost our main weapon in this fight. our main weapon against the us wine practices was precisely the recognition of our designations of origin, and we have lost that. we have paid and we have lost the weapon that could give us arguments to defend our interests. we are also running the risk that some community producers will now also call for greater flexibility in community rules on oenological practices, which may lead to undesirable changes and end our ancestral wine culture once and for all. i am also thinking, commissioner, of names which are as emblematic for my country as jerez or malaga. what's going to happen to them? what will happen in this second phase of the negotiation? i therefore think it is somewhat shameful that the european union should have to give in to the united states' demands on the basis of threats. we've been threatened with closure of our markets and we have caved. and we have not achieved what we really wanted: to defend, once and for all, our appellations of origin. i think, madam commissioner, that we must be stronger in our negotiations, that we must learn from others and that we must not pay in advance, and above all that we must not pay with the money of european producers.
mr president, for two hours many european parliamentarians from 25 different countries, in 20 different languages, have been expressing their views on regional development issues. the presence of commissioner hübner in this debate is very important to all of us and i would certainly like to acknowledge the work of the two rapporteurs, mr guellec and mr marques. i believe that the two reports reveal a european reality which is very different from other models and territorial political entities. i would say that the characteristic of the european union is territorial discontinuity. we are, basically, a small peninsula in the great eurasian continent, with peninsular and insular projections that reach far and wide. it is very different, for example, from the great north american quadrilateral, which has enormous consistency, which establishes great territorial diversity and makes it very difficult to maintain competition in terms of other similar territorial entities. the recognition of this regional reality and of these regional policies is very important. i represent an island, an outermost region, far from the centre of europe, but, as mr vergès said earlier, these types of regions represent a different reality and a different aspect, because europe is projected onto the great oceans, the atlantic, the caribbean and the indian, in a different way. but it would be impossible to try to bring back all this population - we are talking, for example, about the outermost regions, with 4 million inhabitants, who have difficulty competing in the union's large internal market - through economic protection measures alone. i would like to thank the commission for the proposals it has made and i certainly support the proposals of our rapporteur, mr marques, on the development of these regions in the context of a major european union cohesion policy.
the commission's vice-president of course, this regulation imposes an obligation on each member state to establish an authority capable of examining applications. but this regulation is too recent for me to give you an assessment of its implementation today. it is clear, madam president, that we will ensure that these new provisions on passenger rights can be implemented effectively. i can tell you that we will make sure that as from 2006 we can draw up an assessment which will enable us, if necessary, madam president, to strengthen further, if necessary, the measures that have been taken. but i insist, we are launching a policy which aims to ensure, to guarantee new rights for passengers. of course, we need to allow ourselves some time to evaluate the enforcement measures and, if necessary, to strengthen or correct them.
the commission's vice-president thank you for your suggestion. of course the charter is already posted at airports, and it refers to a national body that is responsible for investigating complaints. however, you are right, we must go further in information and we must develop much more concrete and accessible communication in this area. i will ask for a little indulgence because these provisions are recent but you can be sure that i am personally very attentive to the actual implementation of the provisions which i have proposed and which parliament and the council have agreed to adopt. this requires a lot of information. i thank you for your suggestion and i thank the author of the question, mrs stihler, for giving concrete examples. it is on the basis of these examples that we shall gradually arrive at a case law and also a better application of the texts.
i have had a few weeks ago, commissioner, an experience of denied boarding by one of the first european flag carriers, and the rights which were read to me there, which i was given, do not correspond to the standard adopted by this european parliament. does the commission know how many member states have transposed european legislation and incorporated it into their legal system, and how many have not?
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mr sterckx, mr jarzembowski, mr savary and mr zīle on their reports on the liberalization of rail transport networks and services in the european union, quality of service, the qualifications of drivers and the rights and obligations of passengers. for our part, and with regard to the development of the community's railways, we fully agree to support the opening up of transport services in general and rail passenger transport in particular to private competition, but we do so on the basis that the road infrastructure will be in the hands of independent managers, so that all potential users of the networks can have equal access to them. we therefore call for the opening of international rail passenger services to be brought forward to 2008 and accept that individual member states may postpone the liberalisation of the rest of national, regional and local passenger services until 2012. we believe that this opening should be done in an orderly manner and without jeopardizing the existence and economic viability of pre-existing public services. we do not want to harm citizens or the urban, metropolitan or regional transport services which currently exist under the aegis of public institutions. we have argued that, if the relevant objective economic analyses carried out by the regulatory bodies of each member state so advise, they may limit the right of access of an international service to a particular infrastructure on a regional section or restrict the right to pick up and drop off passengers at stations on that section. we will also defend reciprocity of treatment, so that those states which open up to private rail services in advance may temporarily restrict this right to companies in which railway groups based in other states do not have similar conditions for free access to railway infrastructure. in other words, if a state does not open up its networks to competition, its companies will not be able to operate in other open-up states. finally, we believe that private railway service contracts should be for a period of five years, which can be up to ten years if they use specialised infrastructure and require significant investment. a longer period could only be allowed in very specific cases of large-scale and long-term investments, requiring the inclusion of a multiannual amortisation plan covering the periodicity, investments, divestments, amortisations and the way to deal with such a large initial economic outlay. we believe that the opening up and liberalization of passenger services with all the guarantees of quality, safety and qualification of drivers, as well as with adequate regulation of passenger rights, will provide the citizens of the union with the necessary mobility for the progress and sustainable development we are pursuing as a future objective.
mr president, commissioner, i come from a country and a region which, because of its history and geography, is particularly sensitive to the need to achieve optimum diversification and rebalancing between the different modes of transport, with particular regard to rail. the madrid-paris talgo and the high-speed lines, which have been extremely well received by spanish citizens, bear witness to this love and openness to the modernisation of the railways. but let us not forget what it has cost us, and what it still costs us, to get out of the isolation of the single track, of the different track width, to overcome our complex and difficult topography and to face a future of central permeability of the pyrenees, which is increasingly urgent to reduce congestion at its extremes, crucially in the transport of goods. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know - and the chairman of our committee, mr costa, has said it with authority - that the competitiveness of the railways lies not only in other rebalancing measures but, to a large extent, in the infrastructures, in the interoperability of the systems and in the specialized staff; in short, in investments and support. that is why we are lending our support to the transeuropean networks. i also do not think it is serious to fall into a kind of yo-yo regime: first we liberalize and deregulate and then we intervene again. and that is what has happened with the commission's proposal for quality standards in the transport of goods. we must recognize the courage and worth of mr zīle, who has worked as best he could under the circumstances which make this proposal a good candidate for the exercise of better regulation, which president barroso and commissioner verheugen are so secretive about. as an alternative rapporteur, i must admit that i was completely astonished to learn that neither customers nor companies wanted this type of legislation. perhaps we should, commissioner - and i think you are creative enough in that sense - try to invent other instruments which are really useful in making rail freight transport more attractive, not only to the litigators but especially to the users. no, you cannot legislate on freight rail as you would on other products, like socks. as regards the sterckx and savary reports, i would warmly welcome their timeliness and urgency and the excellent signal to the public. on the one hand we are looking for good european professionals who are capable of driving trains throughout the union, and on the other hand we want to establish, clearly and courageously, the rights and duties of travellers, with particular attention to travellers with mobility problems, a situation which will one day affect us all. finally, as regards mr jarzembowski's report, which is always so impulsive and sure of its objectives, and which all too often coincides with those of europe, i must say that it does not seem realistic to me to want to overrun the commission's proposal, and to mix it up with an interinstitutional battle which, by striving for the best, can jeopardise a good achievement. we would have preferred to have accompanied the commission's realistic and nuanced proposal with a comfortable majority that would have sent a clear signal to all the partners. he has preferred to provoke, by his exaggerated proposal, a contrary reaction from a significant part of this house. in any case, i still believe that the commission's proposal for opening up is the most pragmatic and realistic, provided that it is part of a global framework for building a european transport area, in which rail competes on equal terms with other means of transport. and that's achieved through modernization and investment.
the agenda now includes the joint debate on such an important subject as turkey, including the statements by the council and the commission on the opening of negotiations with turkey and the recommendation by mr brok on the additional protocol to the agreement establishing an association between the european economic community and turkey consequent on enlargement [9617/2005 - com ((2005) 0191 - c6-0194/2005 - 2005/0091 ((avc)) ] (a6-0241/2005).
mr. schulz, hold on a second. mr langen, you are not officially in the use of the word and therefore i beg you not to make effective use of the word. you be quiet and calm.
mr brok and mr cohn-bendit, let us abide by our rules of procedure. i assume that mr brok has intervened under rule 145. he did not say so, but the president takes it to mean that his request for the floor is based on that article, which states that interventions on personal grounds take place at the end of the debate in question. so, mr brok, you can intervene, if you wish, when we have finished this debate.
mr de villiers, since you did not tell me which rule you are referring to, i have had to interrupt you.
i'm glad to hear that. reconciliation is at the heart of the european project. mr. brok, do you want to make up with someone? (laughter and applause)
i like it that you come to the plenary with such a positive attitude.
before the votes, i would like to welcome the members of the delegation from the mexican congress to the official gallery on my behalf and on behalf of all of you. (applause) this delegation is taking part in the first meeting of the joint parliamentary committee between the european union and mexico, which is being held in strasbourg. i would like to express my best wishes to the entire delegation and in particular to its leader, mr fernando margaín, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs of the mexican senate. i am convinced that the work of the first meeting of this joint parliamentary committee will be a milestone in strengthening cooperation between the two sides, because we are both calling for the same democratic values and the same commitment to the rule of law.
in accordance with the agenda, we now move to the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
we shall continue with the votes, but first i must inform you that the peruvian congressman, mr gustavo pacheco, president of the foreign affairs committee and of the european union-peru friendship group, is present in the diplomatic gallery. (applause) i would also like to remind you that the last meeting of the interparliamentary conference of the european union, latin america and the caribbean, which was the 17th, took place in that country in june of this year. on behalf of all the members of the european parliament who were part of the delegation, which was chaired by our dear colleague, mr antónio dos santos, i would like to express our gratitude to the peruvian congress for the support it has given to the development of this conference. (applause) i would like to thank
we continue with the voting.
the proposal for a regulation has been rejected. i give the floor to the commission.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission takes note of the position taken by parliament today on this issue. having regard to its commitments vis-à-vis the european parliament, the commission will not hesitate to draw all the conclusions from a rejection by your assembly, taking into account the council's position as well. as my colleague commissioner barrot told you yesterday, the commission will have to reflect on the best way to achieve the objective shared by all three institutions on improving international rail freight services.
the voting is closed.
mr president, since turkey first applied to join the union, our group has supported this process. our group held a meeting in istanbul where we endorsed this process directly. we think that turkey has undergone a transformation in order to embrace modernity, democracy and the correct process for gaining accession to the european union. turkey has made efforts to adapt its legal system to comply with the copenhagen criteria. it has also made advances towards democracy, human rights and the protection of minorities. i wonder why those who now claim to defend kurdish rights have been silent for nearly a century and why they do not work for minority rights in other countries in the european union. turkey has a functioning market economy capable of being competitive within the union. it also has an administrative and institutional capacity to implement eu rules and regulations. i think that we have to work so that turkey recognises cyprus and that we should consider what would happen if turkey did not join the eu. there are difficulties at present, but i think we should facilitate changes in turkey so that it can make progress towards joining the european union. we decided to abstain, because the amendments adopted during the vote altered the meaning of the text in many cases.
mr president, mr energy commissioner, thank you for your very timely presence. the union was unanimous in its call for the need to face up to the harsh reality of the oil price escalation. the situation was predictable, but the reality has been much harder than expected. the fact is that forecasts have doubled and the impact of oil prices is having an impact on economic growth and the well-being of the citizens of the union. the diagnosis is common and the recipes for reducing macroeconomic imbalances in a scenario of rising oil prices are quite similar. i do not say that the coincidences in the analysis are bad, but i do say that they are medium and long-term solutions and that they are voluntary, insufficient in the short term. if i may, i will not waste time, which i have no other way, in common places. i would like to draw the attention of the committee on transport and tourism to the limiting situation in which the road transport sector has found itself, not in a cyclical but in a structural way and with no way out. we will support action by states which tend to adopt measures to facilitate the modal shift towards more efficient modes of transport. we will agree to take measures to make more efficient use of the various modes of transport and, finally, we will agree to take measures to improve the energy efficiency of vehicles. but, having said that, you will have to agree with me that in the short term it is not possible to change reality and that the main one who suffers as a result of this situation is a sector such as transport, which is overly dependent on the evolution of demand and hostage to fluctuations in oil prices. the constant rise in the price of crude oil has led to a sharp increase in the operating costs of companies, placing the sector in a situation of total impotence in the face of the impossibility of transferring the increases to the prices of the service they provide. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxation of petrol is reduced to a level that is compatible with the common market.
mr president, i am here to speak about a sector which is being particularly affected by this situation: the fisheries sector. i agree with the commission that a medium- and long-term action plan is needed to enable the fleet to cope with a situation which is obviously structural and not cyclical, but i must also say clearly that i do not deny that some of the solutions proposed by the directorate-general for fisheries, for example the scrapping of the community fleet, to save energy, cause a great deal of anxiety for many of us. i think that while preparing for the future, we must also take account of the present, since the fleet is already in a desperate situation and we are not convinced by the short-term measures that were set out at the last council of fisheries ministers. the temporary stops of the fifg have not been designed to deal with this type of crisis, because governments have already committed their funds and rescheduling is problematic. the announcement by commissioner borg on the increase in de minimis aid does not solve the problem either, since it will take nine months for this to be solved and for new community rules to be introduced. this is leading to many member states coming to the aid of their sectors in the best possible way, which also produces a major distortion of competition. we therefore reiterate to the commission, represented here by the energy commissioner, the request we made here a year ago to enable the fisheries sector to emerge from this crisis, namely to launch a mechanism which can be triggered automatically when there are sudden or continuing increases in fuel prices, and which should be activated before the fisheries companies start going bankrupt en masse.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, i would first of all like to congratulate the energy commissioner on his swift reaction to the extreme and recent volatility of oil prices through this plan, the main lines of which he has set out to us today and with whose conceptual basis and concrete measures i fully agree. the price of crude oil has risen by 50% in the last year and this increase is reflected in a significant deterioration in the competitiveness of our economy. thus, many governments are under strong pressure to reduce oil taxes on certain transportation sectors. but as the commissioner has rightly said, that is not the solution. in addition to creating market distortions and problems with state aid rules, it opens the door to possible increases in consumption and future increases in the price of the barrel. we must adopt the measures that the commissioner indicated in the plan: a strong push towards the use of renewable energy and improved efficiency, an increase in refining capacity, the fight against speculative movements, consideration of nuclear energy as an indispensable option in the security and supply strategy and the promotion of the use of biofuels. we are debating a crisis today, but we must draw from it enough strength to design our future intelligently. i would not like to end without asking the council, whose representative is at this moment contemplating a role with great interest, to give very serious thought to the effects of an intolerable reduction in the funds devoted to research and technological innovation in the seventh framework programme in circumstances such as those we are now experiencing.
mr president, the energy system is vital and has a global dimension. the european union's price-increase mitigation measures must be coordinated and consistent with our multilateral commitments. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. we must bring more rationality and efficiency into the global system, avoiding the waste of energy for which we all pay - the united states spends 50% more energy per dollar of its gdp than the european union. we must reduce the disparity in environmental regulations, as has been demonstrated within the united states by recent hurricanes, by encouraging less rigid stock management by companies and by encouraging new investment. we must move towards a new energy model through transport innovation, the development of technologies for decarbonisation and diversification and the development of renewable resources, as well as through stable and lasting international cooperation.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, two weeks ago at the 2005 world summit, our heads of state and government met to decide how the international community, through the united nations, should tackle the world's most pressing problems: the interrelated challenges of development, security and human rights. the decisions they took after two years of debate and consultation, now enshrined in the so-called outcome document, set the united nations agenda for the years ahead. the challenges to the world's security and prosperity have been starkly and comprehensively set out by the united nations secretary-general kofi annan's high-level panel on threats, challenges and change, by professor jeffrey sachs, head of the united nations millennium project, and by kofi annan himself in his in larger freedom report. all concluded that until we took urgent action to address poverty, disease, environmental degradation and social injustice, we would not be able to prevent or resolve conflict. we would not be able to build peace, and without peace and security, development cannot take hold. neither is possible without respect for human rights. these, as all the members of this parliament will know, are not new concepts. indeed the united nations was created 60 years ago to build peace and security throughout the world. but the world is very different 60 years on. through technology and communication, countries are more closely bound together than ever before. that means too that the impact of conflicts and disasters is increasingly global in its reach. we all, therefore, have an overriding interest in working together to secure peace and build prosperity. some, i know, were disappointed and frustrated by the results of the world summit. many felt that the commitments made did not go far enough. reaching a consensus amongst 191 nations was never going to be easy. we know that only too well from our own experience with 25. so we should take heart from the fact that the far-reaching commitments made by g8 leaders in july to increase aid, to reduce debt and to expand trade have essentially been safeguarded at the united nations summit. as kofi annan, the secretary-general said, and i quote directly, 'taken as a whole, the [un summit] document is still a remarkable expression of world unity on a wide range of issues'. our task now is to ensure that the agreements are implemented. as my prime minister, tony blair, said in new york, if we start implementing with urgency the agreements on doubling aid, on opening up trade and establishing fair-trade rules, on debt relief, on hiv/aids and malaria and on conflict prevention and stopping genocide, we would have more democracy, less oppression, more freedom, less terrorism, more growth, less poverty. i am proud that the european union was at the forefront of efforts to reach consensus on all of the issues under debate. we had many priorities for the summit across the four so-called clusters of development, peace and collective security, human rights and the rule of law, and strengthening the united nations. i believe that the conclusions reached at the summit set us out on the right path towards improvements in all of these areas, as long as the momentum is sustained and as long as we act now. the interest and commitment shown by members of this parliament towards improvements in these areas is truly admirable and was demonstrated in the expertise of the european parliament delegation who attended the summit, led by co-chairmen nirj deva and michel rocard. the summit secured firm and unambiguous commitments from both donor and developing countries on what is needed to reach the millennium development goals. it strengthened the partnership between developed and developing countries set out at monterey and consolidated all the achievements of this year so far. it broadened the consensus around the commitments established back in july at the gleneagles summit to 191 countries, in particular the need to accelerate progress towards the millennium goals in africa and to make international progress once again on climate change. it also agreed, as set out clearly in the outcome document, that development must be sustainable and take account of its impact on the global environment. under the uk's presidency, the european council has continued to press for more international action to increase development aid in the fight against poverty and deprivation. we, the european union, are already easily the world's largest aid donor: 80% of the extra usd 5 billion of aid pledged at the g8 summit in gleneagles will come from europe. we have also made a historic commitment to double aid to africa by 2010. we have spearheaded the important agreements reached this year to reduce debt and launch global immunisation programmes against illnesses and diseases in the poorest countries. there has of course been criticism that not enough progress was made on trade, back at that summit in july. but it will ultimately be through the doha development round that the international community can and must deliver real gains for poor countries by abolishing export subsidies and reducing all barriers to trade, including trade-distorting domestic support. we will work as hard as we can to ensure that political leaders focus on getting results at the wto ministerial meeting in hong kong in december and indeed focus on these issues before the december hong kong ministerial meeting. as my prime minister has said, if we end up with a failure in december, that will echo right round the world. to make progress on development we need peace and security. as kofi annan set out in his document, in larger freedom: 'we will not enjoy development without security, we will not enjoy security without development, and we will not enjoy either without respect for human rights.' the summit agreed to establish a new peace-building commission, which will bring together united nations member states, un agencies and the international financial institutions to close a critical gap in the un's ability to help countries emerging from conflict to make that vital transition to long-term stability and avoid relapsing into war. you know, as members of this parliament, that the european union is committed to meeting the summit deadline of establishing the commission by the end of this year. more could have been said in the summit document regarding terrorism. the strong condemnation of terrorism 'in all its forms and manifestations' was certainly a welcome political statement. but we must now work on fulfilling our pledge to conclude the comprehensive convention on terrorism by september 2006. that will mean agreeing on a legal definition of terrorist acts, something that all of our governments have a real interest in securing. despite the summit's failure to reach agreement on measures for non-proliferation and disarmament, i can assure parliament that we will continue to work to move forward the agenda on these important issues. ensuring respect for human rights lies at the very heart of the united nations mission. we are fully supportive, therefore, of the creation of a new human rights council to replace the maligned commission on human rights. we must urgently agree on its size, its mandate and composition so that it can begin its work and ensure that human rights are once again at the core of all un activity. perhaps the decision of greatest significance to emerge from that summit was the agreement on 'the responsibility to protect' – a political commitment that the international community has a duty to act when states cannot or will not protect their populations from the worst atrocities: genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. it is an important recognition that in today's world we cannot fail to act when vulnerable populations face these terrible atrocities. we must also work to strengthen the united nations secretariat, to make it a more effective and efficient body. we should begin by encouraging kofi annan to use the executive powers he already holds to effect change from within the organisation. but we, as member states, also have a key responsibility to ensure that the united nations is structured and equipped to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges. the european council welcomed the commitments to reform the main un bodies, including the general assembly, the economic and social council and the security council. if the un is to be effective it has to work collectively with all of its members. that means winning their support. un organisations must therefore be representative, open and efficient. we will continue to work on improving the effectiveness of the general assembly and ecosoc in particular. we particularly welcome the mandate given to the secretary-general to consider longer-term reform of the un's development, humanitarian assistance and environment organisations so that their work is better managed and better coordinated. to be effective the united nations must have the resources that it needs, but it cannot afford to waste funds on inefficiency and duplication of effort. the european union fully supports the long-standing principle of budgetary discipline. we are therefore seeking to adopt a budget for the next financial year that will enable the secretary-general and the united nations to deliver what its members ask and expect, including under the new mandates agreed at the summit in new york. the key to the success of that 2005 millennium review summit and the un's reform programme in general is, of course, implementation. some of the proposals will be explored in the committee of the general assembly, in session from now until the end of this year. others will be taken forward independently. the european union will again be at the forefront of this process. we, as united nations member states, are responsible now for turning words into action. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, i was proud to be at the millennium summit and at the ministerial week that followed. it was the biggest gathering of world leaders ever seen and i hope it will usher in a new era of international cooperation. despite all the criticism – which i myself also made – we must clearly state that the united nations lies at the bedrock of modern world order. the outcome – as my colleague has mentioned already – has been mixed, but the glass is half full and not half empty. the european union was very ambitious and took the lead, together with president jean ping of the united nations general assembly. in the end, we could not achieve everything we wanted. that is normal at multilateral gatherings. one has high ambitions but in the end one has to compromise. having said that, there are a number of very important achievements and other matters on which we were disappointed. what were the achievements? for the commission it was remarkable to have the millennium development goals enshrined in the millennium declaration. that was thanks to my colleague mr michel. i am happy to say that the european union has set the example with 0.56% up to 2010 and 0.7% up to 2015. that showed that other colleagues, especially from the developing countries, were very happy about it. this reaffirmation of acknowledgement of the millennium development goals as a galvanizing framework for development efforts has been achieved for the first time at an intergovernmental level. the second great achievement was the endorsement of the principle of responsibility to protect populations from atrocities. this was a major success because it redefines the concept of sovereignty as a positive concept, putting human beings at the core of security concerns. that should enhance the credibility of the international community, and the united nations means to act in the face of genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. i come from a country close to the balkans and remember the kosovo intervention. that intervention has in a way triggered this new development of international law and, for the first time, this enshrining of the development goals. the third achievement was the peace-building commission, which is an important concrete result that should make the international community’s response to the needs of countries dealing with the aftermath of conflicts more effective and coordinated. the commission has been working with all the same factors, from humanitarian efforts to reconstruction efforts and institution building, to trade and all questions surrounding democracy and human rights; from military peacekeeping missions to election observation missions. all that will now be coordinated in the peace-building commission and we therefore feel that the commission there has to have its place at the table. there are other matters on which i personally was disappointed. the first of these relates to the human rights council. it was more of a name change than a real achievement, but at least the principle has been accepted and we hope that together we can work to make the new human rights architecture a better, more crucial one, together with the new president of the general assembly, jan eliasson. it is important to have a strong, credible, standing institution comprising member states that have a human rights credit. on the other hand, there were some positive steps on human rights, such as the doubling of the budget for the human rights special high representative, which opens up the possibility of direct action in the field. i also note with encouragement that the summit outcome contains a resolution to 'strengthen the united nations human rights machinery with the aim of ensuring effective enjoyment by all of human rights'. another negative point was the whole question of disarmament. it was described by the united nations secretary general kofi annan as nothing less than a disgrace. we clearly have to go on working on that very important item. there are two further questions, one of which is the environment. environmental sustainability is instrumental in our fight against poverty, for stabilisation and for greater security. especially now, with the tsunami, katrina and rita, and floods in the european union, a real united nations environmental organisation would have been the right response by the international community. finally, a word on the united nations management reforms. i think it is very important that the secretary-general not only has accountability and responsibility, but also gets the authority to lead this management reform and be able to implement it. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i agree with commissioner ferrero-waldner that the new york summit produced a diverse and heterogeneous result, in which positive elements are accompanied by negative ones. in any case, i feel a sense of relief at the outcome of the summit, because i cannot forget that two years ago the international community was very divided and the united nations was going through a period of blockade. moreover, even hours before the summit opened, it seemed difficult to reach a final document containing more than mere generalities. fortunately, agreement has been reached on a document which contains substantial achievements, although it certainly also contains shortcomings and failures. i would like to point out - as the commissioner has done - that, for example, the summit has achieved a major reaffirmation of the millennium development goals. as regards security, i would make the same diagnosis: the failure to achieve the objectives of non-proliferation and disarmament is regrettable. in the fight against terrorism, which is such an important issue, i think that progress is very limited. we have not been able to draw up even a minimum definition of an act of terrorism with which the entire international community could agree. the positive aspect is, of course, and as already mentioned, the creation of the peacebuilding commission. in the area of un reform, i think nobody is surprised by the failure of the security council reform. there are deep and seemingly insurmountable divisions in the international community on this issue. in the european union itself we lack a common position. the only thing i want to stress here is that the majority of this parliament, in its resolution of june this year, voted in favour of a seat for the european union. in another large area, human rights, i welcome - as the council representative and the commissioner have pointed out - the recognition of the right or duty of the international community to protect in the event of genocide. but in this very area of human rights, unfortunately, only the decision to create the human rights council has been adopted, without any further details. i am therefore very much afraid that the start of negotiations on the council's mandate, its members and the method of election will be delayed for a long time. in short, i think there is still a lot to be done, but the fact is that after the summit - and i am closing, mr president - there is a basis on which to continue to build. the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the united nations was a very opportune one for reuniting the international community and adapting it to the challenges of the new century. i hope that the steps taken can be translated into some progress during this decisive year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: the summit on the reform of the united nations was a huge disappointment to all those who believe in this institution and, above all, in its founding principles. the summit concluded - and it has been said - with some positive commitments, but key aspects - as has also been said - were left out, such as the reform of the security council. the proposals put forward by the secretary-general, kofi annan, were good and reasonable, but they were also urgent and needed to be supported, and that is why i regret, and i have to say it, that the european union has succumbed to american pressure, in order to squander what should have been a historic opportunity. in particular, the lack of commitments to improve and strengthen global governance on ecological, social and economic issues is of concern, but also the withdrawal of the conclusions of the chapter on disarmament and non-proliferation. nor is there any mention of something as urgent and necessary as the adoption of an international arms treaty, the proliferation of weapons being the main cause of many deaths in the world. i therefore have to ask the council and the commission to show the courage and the audacity to defend these principles in concrete measures and, as my colleague mr schmidt said, in an action plan which clearly defines the european union's position, so as not to succumb - i insist - to american pressure again.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the millennium summit had as its ambitious challenge human globalisation, human rights, peace and prosperity for all humanity, and it can be said that, basically, what that summit has achieved is to halt the attempts to dismantle the united nations and to point out, although with many shortcomings, trends towards progress. and i would like to point out an important one, mr president: the initiative of the secretary-general, mr kofi annan, who has endorsed the proposal of the president of the spanish government, mr rodriguez zapatero, and the prime minister of turkey, mr erdogan. what we have seen this morning in this house shows the importance of this initiative on the alliance of civilizations. in conclusion, mr president, i would also like to say that we must bear in mind that the european union is not currently a member of the united nations, but it is a key member of the wto. this is a challenge which we must face with generosity and in a multilateral spirit.
mr president, i would like to make just six comments. first, i want to denounce the actions of the us administration, in torpedoing the united nations in general and these meetings in new york in particular. torpedoing them was to appoint bolton as the us representative to the united nations and to submit 750 amendments to the draft final text, long worked, negotiated and agreed by the international community, to empty it of any content. by the way, it is sarcastic that when the americans finally have to make a few concessions, it is all parabians and expressions of gratitude that they have not carried their latest remake of apocalypse now to the last consequences. secondly, i acknowledge that the european union's role at the summit has been relatively dignified and positive. it has also been reasonably effective when its member states have acted in a coordinated and coincident manner. thirdly, i would like to stress that the best example of this is what has undoubtedly been the most valid aspect of the new york summit: with regard to the millennium development goals, no progress has been made, despite the efforts of some to back down. the european union acted firmly and at least the commitments and timetable agreed five years ago were kept. fourthly, the failure of the essential reform of the united nations is regrettable, a point which is just as illustrative as the previous one, but in a negative way. here our member states came up with different approaches and the union was unable to take a stand or exert any influence, and thus became partly responsible for this failure. fifthly, we are pleased that the summit has supported the strategy of the alliance of civilizations, which was taken up by kofi annan, by adopting a european initiative such as that proposed by the prime ministers of spain and turkey. and sixthly, we are glad that europe has helped to keep the united nations afloat, saving it from the shipwreck that some had prepared. but it is not enough to keep the united nations afloat; it is essential to relaunch the organization once and for all. the european union's efforts must be directed towards this objective, but to do so, our union will need to be more than just floating. i would like to end with a quote from an african politician: 'this world is not exciting and even disgusting at times, but it is frightening to think what it would be like if europe were not acting as a factor of rationality, balance, a certain coherence and, at times, solidarity.'
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i took as a basis the commission communication on a strategic partnership between the european union and india of june 2004 and the excellent and well-documented response of the government of india in its strategy paper of august 2004. i have taken note of the various events which have since taken place in india and europe and, of course, the fifth bilateral summit in the hague last november, the cornerstone which officially launched the strategic partnership and which grants india the status of a privileged partner, similar to that accorded to other important countries. finally, i followed up as much as possible the preparations and meetings leading up to the 6th bilateral summit in new delhi on 7 september this year, which gave the green light to the expected joint action plan for the strategic partnership. i think that in certain areas of the report i go further than the commission and the council and there may be a dissonance between my position and theirs at times, but it is more by omission than by concrete action on their part. however, i believe that if my report is adopted in the plenary tomorrow, it will be fair to say that the three institutions of the union mentioned - parliament, the commission and the council - fully share the desire to promote, strengthen and enrich, for the mutual benefit, the relationship with the largest democracy on the planet. we cannot forget that we are talking about a country, india, which is effectively the largest democracy on the planet. it is also worth recalling, and i do so in the text, that some of the objectives set out in the council communication and the recent joint action plan require specific funding, which, if we are to be serious, must not be avoided. otherwise, political dialogue is of little use. in this chapter i propose that parliament express its support for the priority given to political dialogue in the strategic partnership, while stressing that the achievement of the millennium development goals and the effective fight against poverty must remain the central elements of the union's strategic engagement with india. the latter is itself a political act, because without political will to approve the appropriate financial resources, no development objectives can be achieved. india is about to complete a great developmental task that has already been undertaken. i am starting from the fact that it and the union share the view that trade, investment and free competition are key factors in development, but also that, for development to be harmonious and equitable, fundamental social requirements that strengthen economic and social cohesion, the environment and consumer rights must be taken into account. i therefore ask new delhi to take a very close look at these factors. the day before yesterday, i would like to comment to you. an editorial in an influential british newspaper said that the honeymoon between the government of india and the private financial sector was over and accused the government of india of allowing the leftist allies - and i quote - in the government coalition to block the promised reforms. despite this, the newspaper acknowledges that the indian economy is booming, growth may exceed 7 percent this year, business profits are increasing, the it sector is strengthening, the stock market is buoyant and capital continues to enter in huge proportions. however, the newspaper said, the indian government cannot take credit for any of these achievements, which it said were due to "nothing less than good luck, past reforms or the efforts of the private sector". frankly, i find the influential newspaper whimsical. i was unaware that good luck was an active determining factor in the economy. the fact is - and i end with this - that india is moving forward, as is its strategic relationship with the union. my five-minute speech is all i can do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would just like to remind the government and the people of india of the following: the death penalty must be abolished, the un convention against torture must be ratified, india must join the international criminal court and it would be a good idea for india to join the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, as, of course, pakistan and israel have done.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mr vatanen for the enormous amount of work and dedication he has put into this report, and i would also like to express, once again, my frustration at the potential and the high expectations which mr vatanen's report has aroused in me. he, in his report, and you can see, does not make a mistake in the diagnosis, he even acknowledges it, emphasizes it and presents it in a way as dramatic as the figures are. the problem is therefore not expressed in its full magnitude. it also points out that there is a great discrepancy between the safety rates of the various member states, but i believe that this discrepancy does not exist in the diagnoses and also in the most useful instrument: legislation, setting limits and deterrent coercion. the great frustration is to see that what we are proposing today for the european union, for a union in which, as the commissioner has rightly said, citizens expect a strong signal and added value, precisely in what each member state has wisely been imposing, there are great differences and sometimes enormous deficiencies, as regards legislation on speed limits, blood alcohol limits and the use of seat belts. in this sense, we believe that the time has come to take this step and the socialist group has tabled an amendment in which we ask the commission, after evaluating the recommendation, specifically in the case of blood alcohol limits, to also offer us the necessary legislative measures applicable to these three fundamental aspects, which all european citizens and all member states recognize. but they also recognize that there are problems. and in those coordination problems is where the greatest weakness lies. we therefore ask the commission to be understanding and to accept our amendment.
mr president, commissioner, it is a fact that the total opening up of textile trade on 1 january has led to an avalanche of chinese products. the commission proposed limiting these imports and, as a result, the june agreement was reached. but, taking advantage of the time needed to finalize this agreement, some european importers accumulated a large amount of goods. the new agreement of 5 september 2005 is a contribution to the solution of the problem, which, at the point it had reached, did not benefit anyone. but that agreement cannot be described as satisfactory, because it has given an image of lack of rigor. there are those who proclaim, right here, right now, that the textile industry should have adapted faster because it knew what was going to happen 10 years ago. but let me predict that if we do not deal with these challenges in an orderly way, today we will be talking about textiles, but tomorrow we will be clamoring for cars or for products of information and communication technologies. the choice is not between free trade and protectionism, but between growing trade, but fair, transparent and with social and environmental minimum standards. in conclusion, i would like to draw your attention to a fact that is causing alarm in the sector. alongside the large known distribution chains producing in china with stable prices, unknown firms have appeared declaring abnormally low prices, which do not even cover the cost of the raw material of the product. for example, the prices of trousers entering the union can range from eur 6 to eur 0,43, both of which are trousers produced in china. these practices account for about 40% of imports from china in my country. i suspect, commissioner, that we are dealing with a case of fraud, in which the value declared at customs is being used to reduce the importer's tax bill, both in relation to the community tariff and to vat. i would therefore like to know what decisions the commission is going to take in this respect.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, this is certainly a fundamental problem. on the one hand, the different conditions of production and therefore of prices explain the existence of international trade, but on the other hand, a completely free trade between economies operating with very different labour costs, as is the case of china and the european union, contains several elements that distort the rules governing competition. what should we say to that? firstly, as consumers of chinese products, we in the european union have a greater responsibility, since we are china's largest trading partner, even ahead of the united states. secondly, china's development and opening up to the world is good news and should be celebrated. but thirdly, that such opening must be done within a framework of respect for minimum and common standards, which guarantee a fair and fair game in trade relations, and that the benefits of such opening and exchange benefit the weakest parts of the production system, that is, workers, while also ensuring respect for international environmental standards. the key is therefore not to promote free trade but to promote fair trade. this means setting new rules for business between countries, including quotas based not on price but on production conditions, establishing traceability rules to ensure compliance and, above all, regulating the practice of large, increasingly mobile multinational companies, which often follow the logic of the race to the bottom, seeking to produce in places that pose fewer social, labour and environmental demands.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would ask that the second part of paragraph 10 should read as follows: 'it calls for future activities in this field to aim at ending discrimination on grounds of sex or caste wherever it occurs'.
the rapporteur. mr president, this is a small, unimportant nuance that is related to our well-known constitutional issue. since the european constitution has not yet been adopted - and i hope it will be soon - the last two lines of paragraph 17 should read: 'including the progress in the common foreign and security policy which the entry into force of the new european constitution could bring'.
the rapporteur. mr president, the point is to add the following: encourages the commission, the member states and india to increase cooperation in the field of renewable energy.
mr president, the ceasefire declared by the maoists in nepal is indeed now a new window of opportunity which, if properly used, can help to resolve the armed conflict in that country. to do this, as recommended by the international crisis group, requires a change in the international community's current approach, especially with regard to the monarchy. throughout the seven months since the royal coup, violence has increased markedly, as have kidnappings, torture, unjustified arrests, disappearances, etc., committed by both government forces and maoists. the government, for its part, has entered a spiral of corruption and inefficiency. and not only that: it cannot properly manage the conflict and with regard to the general affairs of government and state it is also failing. the persecution of leaders of democratic parties, the arrest of journalists during pro-democracy demonstrations and the harassment of trade union groups have only made the situation worse. in this context and in the face of the maoist declaration of ceasefire, as well as the first steps taken by the seven-party alliance to push for a political process to resolve the armed conflict, king gyanendra should respond with a government ceasefire and should initiate constructive talks with the political groups and the maoists, with the ultimate aim of restoring democracy in nepal. the government should also release political prisoners still in prison and ensure respect for human rights and freedom of expression, especially by the nepalese security and military forces. in the meantime, the council and the member states must ensure that the suspension of military aid is maintained, in strict compliance with the code of conduct on arms exports. finally, we must demand that the nepalese government re-establish the office for aiding tibetan refugees in kathmandu, in cooperation with the unhcr, as is customary.
member of the commission. mr president, seven months have passed since the royal takeover in nepal, but the political and human rights situation in the country has not improved. on the contrary, the human rights situation remains critical and it is estimated that the conflict-related death toll has risen considerably since 1 february. it can also be observed that a number of measures introduced under royal rule are contrary to the guarantees of freedom of expression and association in the 1990 constitution, pointing towards a return to the pre-1990 panchayat system of governance. as was to be expected, the royal nepalese army has failed to control the insurgent threat and incurred heavy losses, most notably on 7 august when the maoists overran an army base in kalikot. the maoists, on the other hand, do not appear to have been weakened since february, although they lack wide popular support. nevertheless, there are some positive developments as well: a memorandum of understanding was agreed at the un commission of human rights in april this year to launch a human rights monitoring mission and to set up four regional offices of the office of the high commissioner for human rights in the country. the european commission is planning to support the mission with a contribution of eur 5 million, which is 30% of the total mission budget, and the first results are encouraging. it becomes increasingly apparent that the 1 february coup has unleashed many genies from the bottle: demands for republicanism and total democracy are now permeating nepalese society from all sides and it remains to be seen whether the much advocated 'twin pillars' of constitutional monarchy and multi-party democracy are the only viable option for nepal's future. the forthcoming eu troika visit to nepal, planned from 4 to 6 october, will assess the developments since the last visit in december 2004 and aim to offer public support for the moderate voices in the democratic middle ground working towards the eu's goal of a sustainable peace based on the principles of civilian, accountable and democratic government. working closely with the european union member states and especially the successive european union council presidencies, the commission remains committed to pursuing all efforts, whether they are diplomatic, political, or developmental, that might facilitate the peace process and the return to democracy in nepal.
author. mr president, like mrs de keyser, i too am very concerned about the complaints we receive from tunisia about violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially since this is a country with which we have an association agreement. in fact, it is the first mediterranean country with which we have signed an association agreement in the euro-mediterranean integration process. article 2 of the agreement clearly states that respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights is to inspire the internal and international policies of the parties and constitutes an essential element of the agreement. however, in this context, on 5 september, the holding of the national congress of the tunisian league for human rights, scheduled for 9 and 10 september, was suspended by judicial decision. moreover, on the eve of the world summit on the information society, which is due to take place in tunisia in mid-november, the situation today is as follows: there is no free flow of information, websites with political content and even those relating to human rights are being blocked and human rights defenders are continually threatened and lawyers defending their causes are also persecuted. for all these reasons, and within the framework of the privileged political dialogue between the european union and tunisia, we must demand that the tunisian authorities immediately cease all forms of violence and persecution against human rights defenders and guarantee freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of association. to do this, we must explicitly ask that the actions of the tunisian league for human rights, the union of tunisian journalists and the association of tunisian magistrates be allowed. secondly, the tunisian authorities should give legal recognition to all human rights ngos and suspend the legal proceedings against them. specifically, we must demand the release of those arbitrarily sentenced, for example in the zarzis internet users case, as well as those imprisoned simply for exercising their right to express themselves, to associate or to assemble, as is the case of maître mohamed abbou. in short, we want to urge the council and the commission to base their political dialogue with tunisia on a clear defence of democracy, respect for human rights, the rule of law and good governance. to this end, like mrs de keyser, we also call for the convening as soon as possible of a european union-tunisia subcommittee on human rights to discuss the overall human rights situation and to deal in particular with individual cases.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i want to express my clear respect for the people of serbia, for serbia as such and for its aspirations to reintegrate into the international community, as well as for the demand that serbs make for respect where they are a minority. that is precisely what gives us the right to demand that they treat the minorities they have in their territory with dignity. serbia loses all legitimacy to demand respect for the serbian minority, for example in kosovo - where it has our full support and there will be other occasions to talk about it - when it allows and tolerates, passively, or even is complicit in some cases, in the abuse, aggression and harassment of the hungarian minority in vojvodina. i think it is very important that we adopt this resolution to send a clear message in two directions: on the one hand to the serbian government so that it knows that we are there and we are watching and on the other hand to the european commission itself and to this parliament so that they consider this issue as a matter of priority, not just three or four experts studying it and we are aware that there are daily human rights violations very close to our borders.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission attaches great importance to the preservation of the multi-ethnic character of vojvodina. the commission has the authority to investigate thoroughly any ethnic incident and effectively promote good inter-ethnic relations. we appreciate that the authorities have condemned the ethnic incidents that have occurred and we concede that these incidents do not amount to any form of gross violation, nor are they backed by the belgrade authorities. nevertheless, we are convinced that the authorities have often been late and negligent in investigating reported incidents. the fact that the perpetrators of violent acts and harassment are neither identified nor brought to justice creates a climate of impunity, which unfortunately can foster further incidents and increase the feeling of frustration and insecurity among the minorities. in this respect, the law enforcement agencies and the judiciary are often failing in their duties. let me stress that this is a sign of a much wider problem. there is an urgent need in serbia to reform the police, to make it professional and accountable, and to reform the judiciary, which needs to become efficient and truly independent from undue political pressure. these reforms are key for the protection of the rights, not just of minorities, but of all citizens. in line with the recommendations issued by the european parliament after the fact-finding mission of last january, we have urged the authorities to take concrete measures in the field of police and judicial reform. this includes the need for more adequate representation of the minority communities in these institutions. nobody needs a police or judiciary based on ethnicity, but it is certainly true that a better and more qualified presence of personnel coming from the minority communities could improve their functioning, by facilitating communication with citizens in their mother tongue. it would also increase the trust placed by citizens in the state. if we look at the incidents that have been reported, very often they involve youngsters. this shows that there is an urgent need for the authorities to take measures in the field of education, as recommended by the european parliament. schools can play a key role in preserving the cultural richness of a region like vojvodina and in helping young people take full advantage of that richness, rather than withdrawing into nationalist isolation. we know that often the youngsters involved in or supporting these incidents are the children of people displaced because of the wars of the last decade. the influx of displaced persons has sometimes changed the ethnic composition of the regions. there is no simple solution to this issue and we should seek to prevent people who belong to the serbian community but are often themselves in a very precarious situation, including from a socio-economic point of view, from turning their frustration into violence. the authorities still have much to do. it is also important for cooperation between serbia and montenegro and its neighbouring countries to be intensified in the context of their bilateral agreements. this is particularly true of the agreement between serbia and montenegro and hungary. we appreciate the initiative of holding a european parliament hearing on the situation of the minorities in vojvodina on 13 october. this will offer an excellent opportunity to discuss the issue directly with both the authorities and the representatives of the minority communities. for its part, the commission is continuing to monitor respect for the rights of the various ethnic communities in vojvodina, as well as in the rest of serbia and montenegro. in the feasibility report issued last april the commission concluded that serbia and montenegro were adequately meeting the criteria – including the political ones – for the opening of stabilisation and association agreement negotiations. at the same time, the commission drew the authorities' attention to a number of issues, including respect for human and minority rights. respect for these rights is indeed an integral part of the political criteria for the stabilisation and association process and it is an essential element of the stabilisation and association agreement. the way a country treats ethnic minorities and the quality of the relationship among them are important indicators of democratic maturity. a country aspiring to come closer to the european union needs to show such maturity. during the stabilisation and association negotiations process, the commission will continue to monitor respect for human and minority rights, as well as the other requirements related to the stabilisation and association agreement. in this regard, let me stress that we would be failing in our duty if we looked at the situation of only one minority in one region of serbia, however important it may be. we need to pay due attention to all minorities and in particular the most vulnerable ones, such as the roma. the progress report on serbia and montenegro due to be published next month by the commission will also review respect for human and minority rights. at the same time, the commission will continue to support vojvodina with financial assistance, although there is no specific programme targeting the province as such. vojvodina has benefited as much as the rest of serbia from eu assistance. let me mention just a few examples. a contribution of eur 40 million was made to the reconstruction of the sloboda bridge, which will be opened in october. the support given to small and medium-sized enterprises amounts to eur 8 million worth of credit. in addition, the two neighbourhood programmes with hungary and romania were launched in january 2005. i am confident that strengthening the relations between the eu and serbia and montenegro, through the conclusion of the stability and association agreement, will help consolidate democracy and the rule of law, which will also be to the benefit of the ethnic minorities. thank you for your attention.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 29 september 2005.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the earthquake, which has struck pakistan, northern india and afghanistan, has caused thousands of deaths, numerous injuries and extraordinary material losses. it has been mostly in kashmir where the damage has been greatest. a great tragedy has also struck central america. the passage of hurricane stan through several countries in this area has caused enormous material destruction and irreparable human losses. the consequences are and will be for a long time difficult to bear. the president of our institution, josep borrell, on behalf of the european parliament, immediately expressed our solidarity and our sorrow to the authorities of the countries affected by these tragedies. the european union has acted swiftly to mobilise and provide emergency aid to the affected regions and their inhabitants. we must make provision, in cooperation with the governments of the countries concerned, for our contribution to the reconstruction effort in the regions affected by these disasters. the european parliament wishes to express its solidarity, its affection and its closeness to the families of the victims in asia and central america. we stand with you in this very hard and very difficult time. i would now like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe a minute's silence in memory of all those who have died, those who have been taken away forever by the cruel force of nature. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
i also have the sad duty of announcing the death on 8 october of our colleague jürgen zimmerling. as you know, mr zimmerling was a member of our parliament during the previous term and has held a seat in the european people's party (christian democrats) group since last july. he was a member of the committee on development and of the delegation for relations with the gulf states, including yemen. i also feel it is my painful duty to ask you to observe a minute's silence in memory of our esteemed colleague, who has fallen in the service of europe and in the service of the ideals we all share. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, approved by the conference of presidents at its meeting on 26 september, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131.
we shall now hear, in accordance with the rules of procedure, an opinion to the contrary.
i understand that in accordance with the rules of procedure we should hear an opinion in favour of the motion tabled by mr schulz and an opinion against. however, since the chairmen of the various groups have asked to speak, i shall give a flexible interpretation, but i would ask you - mr cohn-bendit, you will listen to this in particular - to limit yourselves to one minute and to be absolutely concise.
ladies and gentlemen, we have a formal proposal from mr. farage.
let's get this point straight so we can decide with sound judgment. mr schulz, i understand that you are formally proposing that commissioner mccreevy and the president of the commission both appear. mr poettering, could you clarify whether the group of the european people's party is requesting mr mccreevy to appear?
mr poettering: are you proposing, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, that mr mccreevy should appear or are you proposing that a vote be taken if mr mccreevy appears?
ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider amendments to the agenda for today and tomorrow. wednesday: the first amendment relates to what mrs buitenweg has just said and consists in adding, before the council and commission statements on iran, statements by the council and the commission on current problems in the field of immigration. mrs buitenweg has just proposed a change in the title of this item of the agenda to make it explicit where the problem occurs.
in accordance with the rules, i can grant a favourable turn.
the proposal, to be clear, is that specific place names should be added to this item on the agenda. (parliament rejected the proposal) (the agenda for the part-session is approved)
we now come to the next item on the agenda, which is the statements by the council and the commission on topical and urgent immigration issues.
mr president, i will speak about ceuta and melilla. we are facing a tremendous crisis, one to which neither this parliament nor the european union can be immune. we demand more communityisation on all migration issues, a global vision and a comprehensive vision of issues such as integration, asylum, legal immigration, illegal immigration and international protection. we are witnessing a crisis of management, a total failure of the spanish government. what's the immediate cause? there are several: mass regularization, the so-called effect. we are facing a humanitarian crisis, a flagrant violation of human rights, a violation of spanish and community borders. the army, wrongly at the border, humiliated at the border, without training and without roas. overcrowded detention centres, overcrowded social services (a heartfelt applause to the ngos and the governments of the cities of ceuta and melilla). moral crisis: a democratic government complacent and submissive to another that does not respect human rights (a figure today: 67% of spaniards say that the government is too tolerant with morocco). crisis of responsibility: no one takes responsibility, no one for the tragedy. confusion, premeditation, lack of information and transparency, double attitudes and double languages: first they are allowed to arrive and they are allowed to storm the border, then they are shot, displaced and abandoned to their fate in the desert; we do not know where they are going and we do not know where they are being taken. using tragedy as a bargaining chip: they're sending us this message: "if we want to stop this, we can do it, but you have to pay and you have to look the other way and, moreover, without criticizing". mr solana is right: there must be no aid without commitment, without loyal cooperation, without respect for the other, without respect for the human being. what's the solution? difficult, but there are a few: more communitization, more information, more demands, more external border agency, more cooperation, more common aid, more common controls, repatriations with subordination and respect for human rights and identification and penalisation of disloyal countries. morocco must respect human rights, offer credibility and loyalty and make good use of aid: only then will the necessary neighbourhood be possible. and a note, mr catania: the spanish delegation of the pp supports your proposal to set up a committee of inquiry. (applause from the right)
mr president, the secretary-general of the united nations, mr kofi annan, in this very house, when he received the sakharov prize, drew the attention of europeans to the drama of emigration, and the president-in-office of the council, mr tony blair, said that africa is a very important priority for us. we are now living through a situation which shows that we are facing a drama of biblical proportions, because, as mrs klamt has said - and i think she is right - there are more than four million displaced persons in africa. we have gps systems to see the precision of the bombing; we could see what is happening right now in the sahara, in the sahel, where, as a consequence of the drought, the famines, the locusts, the ruin of the crops that we protect, there are hundreds of thousands of people who have been put on the move: this is the biblical drama that we have to deal with. the misery of a former director-general of police who, today, here, is confessing his failure, his frustration and his anti-patriotism is not worth that. what we are proposing in a very concrete and very direct way is a commitment which the british presidency has also put forward: to take a step forward in relation to africa. that means - and i think the commission has approved it today - a marshall plan for africa which takes account of the right of people to live in a dignified way. what we can't do is take our problems to the neighbor. yesterday in rabat, minister moratinos and minister benaissa made an appeal to the european union which i believe it must respond to: the convening of a conference with the european union, with the affected countries in europe and africa, with the united nations and the organisation of african states, to deal with this problem and, as the presidency-in-office of the council has said, to manage jointly the migratory flows in a humane way. that is the way out that we have to support. we have the support of thabo mbeki and kofi annan; we lack the support of the european union; let us see if we can achieve this.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to this proposal i am making. i have been falsely and gravely misquoted by the previous speaker. i ask for your protection and invoke the rules of procedure to reply.
mr president, i really just want to reply to mr baron in the following terms: i had respect for him, a lot of respect for him, before this afternoon; after hearing him and seeing the great efforts he has made to prevent it, he has succeeded: i no longer have any respect for him. another point: in order not to be uncivil, mr president, i will not say that mr barón has been indecent and unworthy in referring to me; i will say that he has used indecent and unworthy language and speech, not that he is. finally, mr president, mr barón once said in my country: 'i am a state asset'. it has been established that this is not a matter of state property, but of the property of the states. with this language and with these behaviors that's what mr. baron is. and finally, i am proud to have dedicated part of my life to the safety of all spaniards. many days without nights. mr president, it is a pity, a pity that when there are no arguments, we resort to disqualification; it is a pity that when there are no arguments and no ideas, we use these languages. the baron has testified that he has no idea about this and other matters.
mr president, if you examine the minutes carefully, you will see that i have not referred to mr díaz de mera personally. i am not going to reply to the misplaced remarks you have made; i simply want to point out that the criticisms you have made of the spanish government, which are serious and unfounded, have a place to be substantiated, which is the congress of deputies, in the carrera de san jerónimo, in madrid. i can give the address to mr díaz de mera, but here the european institutions are being examined, not the spanish government.
madam president, i would like to emphasise that i am speaking on my own behalf. i am not expressing the opinion of my group. in iran the human rights situation has deteriorated after the new president was ‘elected’. in particular, the situation of women and young people has worsened considerably. the number of public executions has increased. the regime has been condemned in the un for violations of human rights more times than any other country in the world: 51 times. all hopes of iran moving towards moderation have now evaporated. there are also many reports of the iranian regime becoming increasingly involved in iraq in an attempt to set up a sister islamic state. tehran has also decided not to respect any of its agreements with the eu with regard to nuclear programming, including the paris agreement. one of iran’s main demands concerns the people’s mujahedin resistance movement. they were put on the terror list about three years ago without any legal basis. many meps in the house as well as the majority in the british, belgium and italian parliaments have called for the removal of the mujahedin from this list. we believe the only way to improve democracy in iran is to support the main opposition.
mr president, as you know, the presidency of the council has adopted a statement on behalf of the 25 member states expressing its concern about the situation of three political prisoners in cuba who were tortured by the cuban regime: josé daniel ferrer garcía, víctor rolando arroyo and félix navarro, who were on hunger strike. since the president of parliament, mr borrell, will be attending the ibero-american summit in salamanca on behalf of our institution and since the possibility of fidel castro appearing in that city in the flesh has not been excluded, i would like to ask mr borrell to convey to the cuban delegates the final position of the european union and our parliament: the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners in cuba.
mr president, commissioner, the terrible incidents of the past few weeks, with hundreds of africans throwing themselves into avalanches to cross from morocco to ceuta and melilla, have convulsed public opinion. we are not dealing with something new; for years we have been witnessing the desperation that drives these men and women to risk their lives to enter europe, or rather to escape from africa, which is, however, their land. in all this time we have seen the ducks unloading africans to our shores, where numerous corpses have also been brought, swallowed by the sea in such a dramatic adventure. what is new, now, is perhaps the impression that this is not a matter of hundreds or thousands of people, but that desperation can mobilize millions who have nothing to lose and who will stop at nothing in their march for survival. that there is a colossal injustice in the world's articulation, with growing inequalities between the industrialized north and the underdeveloped south, and that this can only have explosive consequences is no longer claimed by just a few pioneers of global society: from being something that we specialists dealt with has become the agenda of generalists. but it is no longer the time to predict crises: the crisis is bursting at our door and catching us without any clear ideas of how to react. the strategy for africa proposed by the commission and the effort proposed by the british presidency could respond to the need for reaction on an issue where the only obvious thing is that we are facing a european problem for which there is no other solution than that same european dimension, that of the union, combined with that of the member states. the development of africa is imperative for africa, but also for europe. the commission is now preparing a communication which should be called 'the european strategy for the development of africa'. no doubt he's late, but better late than never. the proposal seems to us to be acceptably ambitious, but not sufficiently precise, and, above all, long and complex to articulate; it is, in any case, a step in the right direction. i hope that we can all, and particularly parliament, give the process the breadth and the specificity that we feel are indispensable, and support the commission in its good intentions. it will also be essential to deal with the matter with the speed required to respond to what is a colossal emergency which also calls into question the credibility of the european union and its consistency with its own principles.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to commend the political courage of the commission, and in particular of commissioner louis michel, in presenting this strategic plan for africa, which i hope will go down in history not as a catalogue of good intentions 'of which hell is paved' but as the michel plan, in a way evoking the marshall plan. you have that challenge. besides, i think it's the right time to do it. i would like to remind you that the president-in-office of the council, mr tony blair, also raised this question - regrettably in his absence, because i think it is a commitment we all have to share - and i would like to stress a fact which the commissioner has already pointed out: the president of the african union was also present at the presentation of this plan, which shows a desire for parity and partnership. i would also like to make two specific comments. firstly, in relation to the biblical drama we are living through - the mass emigration of people fleeing, especially in the sahel, from hunger, locusts, wars and drought - the presence of european states, even in diplomatic terms, is minimal in the states of the southern sahel. i believe that urgent action must be taken in this respect and that the commission must take the initiative. and secondly, mr president, in view of the hong kong round negotiations, we must be able to make the defence of our interests compatible with an opening up to africa in the agricultural field.
mr president, commissioner, many countries have already made and are making considerable progress in setting up quality assurance systems and in promoting cooperation in the union, which is a step forward in the development of a european university area. however, i would like to stress the need to go a step further by means of effective collaboration and coordination between these bodies, whether national or european, since achieving mutual recognition of quality assurance systems and assessments is good for all citizens, as it facilitates the homologation of academic qualifications between member states and the mobility of students and teaching staff. both are key to improving our educational standards and to forming a common european consciousness. but to make this possible, i believe it is vital to create the necessary mutual trust between all the actors involved. this means that universities, teaching staff and pupils must also be involved. only in this way can we successfully meet the challenge of a europe of excellence based on the investment in education, training and research needed to achieve a fully inclusive knowledge society in the framework of the lisbon strategy.
member of the commission. mr. chairman, thank you very much for the discussion. it is interesting how many themes come together in the concept or in the cooperation around the theme of circus and european culture. of course, there is a temptation to change professions or arenas, but a really good and quality circus deserves recognition, which is what this report is all about, and some responsibility for approaching topics that are not only about culture, but also about education, mobility and the economy, because this is the entertainment industry. i would like to once again commend the work, report and approach of the rapporteur, doris pack, but also the debaters, and look forward to working together on this topic in developing the european cultural agenda.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank your assembly and in particular the committee on women's rights and gender equality for the preparation of this report. poverty and social exclusion, of which women are victims, are extremely important issues. as your report really shows, the feminization of poverty is a persistent trend in european societies. women make up the majority of the unemployed and longterm unemployed and are far more likely than men to work part-time. it is clear that women continue to face violence in both the public and private spheres. in addition, some 500 000 women are trafficked for sexual exploitation in europe each year. these two phenomena are most often the result of the poverty in which these women are forced to live. your report reaffirms that women's employment remains the key to their economic independence and one of the main factors in removing the trappings of poverty and social exclusion. employment has a direct impact on the status of women in society as a whole. european employment actions are a fundamental mechanism for achieving equality between women and men. an integrated approach is important to increase the employment and vocational integration capacity of women. this approach must focus on the needs of women and identify the interests of certain groups of women who are most at risk of social exclusion. examples include single mothers, migrant women and women from ethnic minorities, disabled women and elderly women. between 1997 and 2004, female employment rose from 50.6% to 55.7%, mainly due to the economic growth europe experienced during this period, although not too high. employment is thus increasing, but marked inequalities and numerous forms of gender discrimination in employment still persist. in general, it is women who face unemployment more often. they also largely represent jobs that are less well-paid, less stable and associated with less social protection. at the same time, they continue to bear the bulk of the responsibility for the care of children and other dependants. the objectives set out in the context of the open method of coordination to combat social exclusion underline the importance of taking gender equality into account when developing the implementation and monitoring of national action plans on social inclusion by member states. the national action plans, the key tools of the european method, are evaluated every two years. the mainstreaming of gender equality in all areas of gender mainstreaming is a general obligation that should, in theory, be applied to all national measures linked to the achievement of the objectives. for convenience, the common indicators of poverty and exclusion are systematically presented separately for men and women. in addition, the visibility of the social inclusion process and the involvement of stakeholders on the ground is ensured through financial support under the community action programme against exclusion. in conclusion, i would like to highlight three priorities for the future. first, gender equality must be made the primary objective of the social protection system by strengthening the social rights of atypical workers. secondly, we need to strengthen policies to increase quality childcare and care for dependants of all ages so that men and women have real choice in reconciling work and family life. finally, the gender dimension in policies and measures to combat poverty and social exclusion needs to be strengthened in order to prevent the feminization of poverty. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to one area that shows how much we all care and how little can sometimes be achieved by legislation alone. the fact that there should be no gender pay gap has been part of european legislation for 30 years. currently, the gender pay gap is 16 to 33 per cent, depending on the country. i think it is clear that an integrated and consistent approach is the duty of the day.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, as the report says, we in this house are in fact used to devoting much more time and effort to price stability or the budget deficit than to poverty, its eradication or the social dimension of the lisbon agenda, for example. but, as has been said, poverty also has a female face in europe. in most member states, social security schemes do not take sufficient account of the specific conditions of women. for this reason, this parliament must make a clear appeal to the member states to establish and guarantee a basic income as a fundamental instrument to combat poverty - which is predominantly female - in the context of an overall policy to promote social and economic integration. i would also like to stress once again - and we have done so in an amendment - the need to replace the term 'domestic violence' with 'gender-based violence', since this is a form of violence which should not be characterised by the place where it occurs but by the division of roles which our society assigns to men and women, which often leads many men to believe that they are superior and possess women, which unfortunately leads to violence. in this respect, the amendments we have tabled are part of a structural dialogue which is often established in the european union.
mr president, i would like to make it clear that this amendment does not challenge the wto regulations. the amendment proposes to add two words, namely ‘high risk’ chemicals. the only purpose is to clarify that it does not challenge the wto.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 13 october 2005.
before i go on to tell you about the usual events which mark the time between two partsessions, i should remind you that today marks the 60th anniversary of the creation of the united nations. and that deserves a reflection on the part of the european parliament on what these years have taught us in terms of cooperation and dialogue and multilateral political action. the secretary-general's message has been distributed in full to all members of the european parliament. in that message, mr kofi annan is unequivocal when he reminds us that the united nations must be a reflection of its time and, as such, adapt to the developments the world has experienced since 1945. i would also remind you that last september in new york a meeting of heads of state and government was held to draw up an inventory of reforms and to make concrete commitments on their implementation. this summit did not meet all the expectations that were there. we cannot say that the resolution adopted by the european parliament on this subject has been fully taken into account. that is why we must monitor very closely the continuity of this reform process. in our last plenary we adopted a third resolution on the outcome of the september summit and i want to take this anniversary to remind once again of our determination to make reforms such as the creation of a human rights council or the peacebuilding commission a reality before the end of the 60th session of the general assembly. on this date, the european parliament reiterates its support for the actions of the united nations and the fundamental principles governing them.
ladies and gentlemen, i regret to inform you that former member of the european parliament, mr matti wuori, passed away on 15 october. matti wuori was a member of parliament in the previous term, he was a member of the green group and he was a rapporteur on human rights. parliament is remembering this colleague today.
the final draft agenda for the october part-session, as drawn up by the conference of presidents on 20 october, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131. the socialist group in the european parliament calls for the debate on the commission's statement on patents for biotechnological inventions not to be concluded with a resolution, contrary to what was approved by the conference of presidents on tuesday. mr schulz has the floor to explain his group's request.
mr liese has the floor for a counter-turn.
we now come to the one-minute speaking time on matters of political importance.
mr president, i wish to state my embarrassment as a member of parliament that mr barroso has recently appointed three personalities even more reactionary than mr buttiglione to fill the commission's vacancies in the european group on ethics in science and new technologies. i think this step backwards is shameful not only because of the result, but also because of the path that has led to that result: since april, mr barroso has been consulting the chairman of the committee on legal affairs - which is responsible for this matter and to which i belong - completely avoiding the debate and, moreover, now without complying with the applicable rules. it should also be remembered that many other members, including presidents of this parliament, have expressed their opposition to this matter. to appoint people even worse than buttiglione to a matter so delicate and on which work was being done quite well is to put doors on the field and go against progress.
mr president, at the last part-session our parliament expressed its solidarity with the victims of the terrible earthquake in pakistan and the floods in central america. this weekend, hurricane wilma, the most devastating hurricane mexico has ever seen, hit that country and left a trail of chaos, destruction and death. mr president, i have spoken to the chair of the delegation in the eu-mexico joint parliamentary committee of this parliament, mrs erika mann, and although she will be officially speaking on this, we have agreed that it would be appropriate for you, on behalf of our house, to address the mexican authorities and express our solidarity with them at this difficult time and also to ask the european commission to consider - given that mexico is a positive and active partner of the european union - the possibility of contributing to the humanitarian aid for reconstruction and rehabilitation needed to alleviate the effects of the floods in this country.
we're calling this session off.
the report by mrs doris pack, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing an integrated action programme in the field of lifelong learning (com (2004) 0474 - c6-0095/2004 - 2004/0153 (cod)) (a6-0267/2005) is on the agenda.
mr president, as we face the financial perspective of culture 2007 we are very worried about an issue that the european union has not yet properly addressed: the promotion of marginalised languages and of minority languages within the eu. i would like to refer specifically to the budget problems for the european bureau for lesser used languages, whose main goal is to maintain real language diversity in the european union. according to the charter for regional and minority languages, each linguistic community has the right to maintain and develop its own language and pass it on to future generations. in the european union we have official languages, minority languages and languages like catalan that, being majority languages in their own country, are not in the first or second groups. the eu has to provide support for all these languages and for linguistic diversity in europe. that means a budget is needed for minority languages and for the european bureau for lesser used languages. i know that is against the jacobinist language policy that is practised in some european states, but the eu will work to promote diversity, democracy and freedom and to maintain real equality between languages in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we european citizens should congratulate ourselves on the approval of this programme: a cultural programme, renewed for the period 2007-13. the european union is thus demonstrating the importance it attaches to its citizens by adopting a programme which seeks to improve the dissemination of the culture and history of all european peoples, to preserve and protect the union's cultural heritage and to encourage artistic, literary and audiovisual creation. it is also a much-needed programme to meet the challenge of enlargement and also to develop awareness of european citizenship, because only the dissemination of our common cultural values gives an idea of the various foundations of european identity. but this programme will also be open to a large number of non-eu countries. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. and in that sense, i think that the needs defined by the european cultural foundation in july 2004, when it asked for an annual budget of 315 million euros, reasonably indicated the need for a more generous budget. i therefore support the rapporteur's request for a budget higher than the 408 million proposed by the commission. i would like to conclude by expressing my satisfaction at the adoption of the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions; my satisfaction at its approval, but above all that the european union has spoken with one voice and has shown that, once again, its union is working. i would like to ask the member states to ratify this instrument as soon as possible, since it represents a major step forward in the recognition of cultural and linguistic diversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, it is clear that the strength of european culture does not lie in its stones, nor can it lie in its stones and cathedrals. it is the creative capacity of its citizens, of the people who live in europe, its dreams, as the commissioner said, that make europe strong and its culture strong. its audiovisual industry is a perfect example of this, not only by protecting europe in these times of great global homogenization, but also by reinforcing the sense of a collective identity made up of so many different identities that make up cultural diversity. that is why the committee on civil liberties and justice and in particular my group have from the outset fully supported this media 2007 programme: it helps to form these undefined elements of european citizenship. it is therefore essential to support the text as it stands. i think, commissioner, that we must consider some of the amendments that you do not want. i guess we'll get a chance to talk about it. in any case, i am glad to see that you are satisfied with the amendments which improve the text somewhat. i have a feeling that we are going to vote in this sitting on a very good text which will strengthen this european cultural dimension of the future.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, its committee on the environment and in particular the rapporteur, mr blokland, for the work they have done on this report at second reading. one of the main objectives of the proposed new regulation on shipments of waste is to ensure that the european union is aligned with the international requirements for shipments of waste, both at oecd and un level, i.e. the basel convention. the other main objective is to address the problems arising in the implementation, administrative management and enforcement of the existing regulation. the new regulation therefore also seeks to contribute to greater clarity and better legislation on shipments of waste. the council held discussions on this subject during the italian and irish presidencies. at first reading, the commission amended its proposal and adopted in full, in part or in principle 43 of the 103 amendments proposed by parliament. the council's common position incorporated 41 of parliament's amendments. the common position is an important step forward in improving the clarity of the regulation and its provisions, always in line with the objectives pursued. i would like to stress that our aim is to see this matter dealt with as quickly as possible. we need this new regulation to improve the clarity and application of the rules governing shipments of waste and to comply with the european union's international commitments. the commission did not, however, accept the common position on three specific issues, which it explained in a statement, by means of a communication to the european parliament, on 1 july 2005. these are the legal basis of the regulation, the objections of the member states to the shipment of waste destined for recovery and a provision to exclude animal by-products from the scope of the regulation. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has voted in favour of 90 amendments to the common position. the commission considers 74 of them to be fully or in principle acceptable, but cannot accept 16 of the amendments. the preservation of the internal market is a matter of fundamental importance to the commission. today, waste for recovery is freely moved between member states, provided that strict environmental protection rules and the principle of proportionality are respected. a thriving european recycling market helps to reduce the environmental impact of the use of natural resources. the free movement of waste for recovery is already established by the existing regulation on shipments of waste, the provisions of the treaty of the european communities on the free movement of goods, and the case law of the european court of justice. the changes proposed by the council common position would create serious obstacles to the internal recycling market and are not acceptable to the commission. the proposed amendment no 35 could prevent possible problems in the internal market. it provides for maximum time limits for objections to shipments of waste for recovery under national standards. such objections may be raised only until the date of entry into force of specific community legislation,and at the latest 4 years after the entry into force of this regulation. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the application of the directive on the recycling of waste.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that, in general, this has been a good proposal from the commission. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the great effort he has made to reach compromise amendments, which have been accepted by most of the political groups, and which will enable us to reach an agreement at second reading. i would point out, however, that we have accepted the compromise amendments, but we have some reservations about changing the legal basis. we preferred the commission's proposal, which did not remove the legal basis for international trade policy, article 133. whether we like it or not, waste is a commodity and must be treated as such. moreover, more than 50% of the text refers to the transport of waste outside the european union. this does not prevent us from also taking the environment into account, since it is a very important issue. we also disagree with the fact that our proposal on tacit consent has been dropped. i think that the administrations should be given a reasonable time to respond to requests for waste shipments and, if they do not, what is called 'administrative silence' or 'tacit consent' should be applied. the european parliament has expressed its concern about the problem of ships being exported for scrapping and the epp-ed group welcomes the council's statement that it is the member states who have a voice in the international maritime organisation that should push for the development of standards at international level. i would point out that my group cannot accept any of the amendments tabled by the green group, and in particular the one referring to animal by-products. we have a regulation already on them which is much stricter than this regulation, so we cannot add to the bureaucracy for free. finally, i would ask the european commission that, as part of better legislation, it is important that in a future amendment to the waste framework directive it revises all the definitions, such as recovery.
the agenda for the debate will start with the statements by mr barroso and mr mccreevy on mr mccreevy's recent statements on the vaxholm affair.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, i think we have already made our position very clear. i would like to give a more precise answer to the questions raised, in particular by mr schulz, who quoted questions from mr rasmussen. first, the question of the trade unions. do they have the right to strike? of course, this is a fundamental right, a fundamental freedom, in accordance with our european principles. we absolutely respect the right to strike of all trade unions in europe. secondly, is the internal market compatible with the scandinavian social model? of course i'm going to. thirdly, what will be the commission's response in that case? first of all, we must know what the court of justice is asking us to do. until i am consulted by the court, i cannot say what our legal position will be. but i can tell you what it won't be and what it will be about. we will never attack the scandinavian or swedish social model, but we will defend the treaties to the hilt, because the commission is the guardian of the treaties. we must strictly observe the treaties. we will therefore give a response that is compatible with the treaties and the acquis communautaire. i think the fundamental problem, mr president, mr member, is to avoid the dichotomy between the internal market and social rights. in the debate, this sometimes appears as a contradiction: those who are for the internal market on the one hand and those who are for a social europe on the other. i would like to say to you frankly that the commission's role is to try to synthesise these two principles. the growth we need to strengthen our social ambitions is achieved through a genuinely active and operational internal market. we are therefore submitting a communication for this week's informal summit and i am glad that it has been well received by all the political forces. we are proposing, for example, a globalisation adjustment fund, trying to bring together two elements: an open internal market without artificial protectionism in our community and a stronger social ambition. in this connection, i would like to see some parties, which are in favour of a more social europe, supporting in their governments a european budget which is more inspired by these same values. the problem facing the enlarged europe today will not be solved by artificial barriers between our countries, but by harmonizing from the top, that is, by a more active policy of economic and social cohesion, which will promote the development of all the regions of our union. now there are 25 of us! we must pursue a more ambitious policy, aimed at social redistribution at union level, but avoiding artificial barriers between our countries. that's the problem. i can assure you that the european commission will continue to work in this direction: for the establishment of the internal market, of course, but for economic and social cohesion in a europe that we want to be more prosperous, but also more just. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that the socialist group believes that both the european commission and the council must commit themselves to economic and scientific cooperation with the countries of south-east asia, which are still the main source of avian influenza infection and whose eradication at source is vital. we also think that the pharmaceutical industry should cooperate closely with the european commission, as well as with the member states and the world health organization, in a coordinated way and with a communication strategy, without alarming the public, but with remarkable levels of information and transparency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, flu pandemics have been documented in europe for over a century and it is known that the three subtypes of the a virus we have had are of avian origin: h1 in 1918, h2 in 1957 and h3 in 1968. they all had a bird origin and they all mutated. since 1997, it has been known that the h5 subtype is highly virulent, capable of transmitting to humans and producing a highly deadly influenza, but that transmission, until now, is only by contact with sick birds or their droppings. the h5 virus has spread between wild and domestic birds, and migratory birds are carrying it everywhere. in addition, it has been transmitted to mammals such as pigs and cats. there is therefore a broad consensus among experts and health agencies that the a h5 virus could adapt to human transmission and produce a new pandemic. i believe that the commission, within its powers, has been acting responsibly and transparently so far. their skills may need to be increased if a pandemic or emergency period comes. i would like to stress the importance of setting relevant standards for the member states to follow, and coordinating and monitoring their compliance, and of calling on the media to report accurately but without creating unnecessary social alarm. i believe that we need to strengthen the wildlife surveillance network, which is intimately linked to most emerging diseases. finally, i believe that the resources for r & d within the european union must be increased to provide a scientific and medical response in the shortest possible time, should the need arise.
mr president of the republic of chile, mr president of the chilean congress and senate, ladies and gentlemen, we have the privilege today of welcoming the president of the republic of chile, mr ricardo lagos escobar, who is also accompanied by the presidents of the two chambers of the chilean parliament. mr ricardo lagos is a person of exceptional importance in the political landscape of latin america. mr president, allow me to welcome you warmly on behalf of the european parliament. when ricardo lagos was 45 years old, he left a quiet and comfortable life at the united nations to rent a small office in santiago, chile, and start working for democracy in his country, then in full military dictatorship. he worked, fought and traveled throughout chile; he was arrested, but returned to the struggle to end the regime of general pinochet. his work has been persevering in repealing the authoritarian enclaves of a constitution signed by a dictator, and a month ago he managed to carry out the reform of that constitution, which is now signed by a democratic president. in the collective memory of chileans and of all democrats in the world, i think there is a fond memory of the image of ricardo lagos on a television programme, who made history, looking at the camera with his finger raised, confronting pinochet and opening the way for millions of chileans to vote "no" in the 1988 referendum, with which pinochet wanted to perpetuate himself in power. i think that's the most symbolic image of the transition to democratic openness in chile. (applause) because of his faith in chile and in democracy, he supported a christian democrat, patricio aylwin, as president of chile, and in that government he was minister of education and he tackled a profound reform of education in his country. then he met another christian democrat, president frei, who had been his opponent in the presidential elections, the minister for public works. he is a good example of cooperation between christian democrats and socialists at a time when the country needed it to move towards democracy. that was when i had the opportunity to meet him: he, minister of public works in his country, and i, in mine. from your hand, my dear friend, i began to know your wonderful country, from the volcanic deserts in the north to the alpine landscapes in the south, to the southernmost. and finally, in march 2000, he was elected president of the republic of chile, a country that, as early as 1812, at the dawn of its independence, drafted its provisional constitutional regulation, which read as follows: "every free inhabitant of chile is equal in rights (...). the foreigner ceases to be a foreigner if he is useful; and every wretch who seeks refuge in our soil will be the object of our hospitality and help. no one will be prevented from entering the country, nor will they be allowed to leave when they wish. apply these words to ceuta, melilla or lampedusa, and you will see the raging news that is happening in europe today. (applause) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, chile, in the aymara language, means 'the place where the world ends' and, indeed, at the border of the bio-bio river the world ended, because there the spanish conquest was stopped in the face of fierce araucanian resistance. but today chile is a fully integrated country in the world, open, dynamic and democratic, which has signed with the european union the most comprehensive association agreement that the union has signed with any other country that does not aspire to be a member of the union. since then, chilean exports to the union have increased by 35% and our overall trade has almost tripled. that shows the mutual benefit that our partnership brings. i would like to welcome you, mr president, and acknowledge that it is a privilege for this parliament that you have wanted to come here when you are about to end your presidency, a presidency which you leave with an approval rating of over 65%, which is surprisingly positive, not only in latin america but also in europe. that is why, mr president, believe me, we are all very pleased to hear from you the lessons we can learn from the great chilean experience towards democracy. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the republic of chile. i thank you very much, mr president, for your kind introduction, ladies and gentlemen, members of this parliament, friends: 15 years ago i came before you to talk to your heads of staff as one of the leaders of the opposition to the dictatorship in chile. today i stand before you as president of the republic of a democratic country, after 15 years of successful exercise of a broad political and social coalition in government. chile has changed a lot since those dark years. we have managed to recover our civic life and our democratic institutions. we have doubled the output and globalized our economy. at the same time, we reduced poverty by half, reformed education, health and justice, and, with public and private resources, we have embarked on the most ambitious infrastructure and housing plan: today, one in four homes in chile has been built in the last 15 years. and i think because we've made these changes at the same time, we now have a high level of social cohesion and our population supports our integration into the global society. we have always looked to the experience of europe. for more than half a century you have managed to combine democracy, a market economy and high social cohesion, compatible with macroeconomic balances and a welfare state or, better, a social safety net. we have a common cultural heritage and historical ties that bind us together. the support which this house has given to the democratic recovery in chile is something which chileans have a vivid memory of. in difficult times for our country, members of this parliament at the time travelled to chile, took part in our assemblies, supported our civil society and showed their solidarity with the democratic cause. we can only be grateful to remember these facts. and we ask you to value the significance of what has been achieved. europe's role was, is and always will be invaluable. history - our history - would be different without you. the truth about human rights violations is now public and acknowledged. a luminous trajectory to find the truth began with the rettig report, on missing detainees, and has continued to this day with the valech report, on imprisonment and torture in those dark years. i do not know of any other country in the world which has dared to set up a commission to hear the statements of 35 000 people who were arrested and tortured, of whom 29 000 were recognised as victims by the commission. we have been able to recognize the moral conscience of our society. we have faced the task of bringing truth and justice to human rights violations. chile today enjoys, as president borrell said, a firm and robust democracy. the authoritarian constitution has been amended. the workers have regained their rights. chile today has unemployment insurance, labor reforms and a new, more effective labor justice system. the role of women is increasingly recognised; there is important and comprehensive legislation on family duties and rights. environmental protection is part of the collective imagination and has been embodied in important public policies that were recently analysed by the oecd. today, in chile, new generations, raised and trained in democracy, are pushing the boundaries and deploying their creativity in all areas. today, seven out of ten young people in higher education are the first generation in their families to go to university. that is the magnitude of the change we have introduced in chile: it is a more libertarian, more solidary, more progressive, more open to a world in which we want to leave our mark. that's right, we've reduced poverty from 40 to 18 percent, and destitution from 12.9 to 4 percent. we have a competitive economy, low corruption rates and satisfactory human development indicators. however, we are not satisfied; much remains to be done. we need to change the social provision to make it fairer and more equitable. we still have a chronic inequality in the distribution of income from work. the income gap between the richest 20 percent and the poorest 20 percent is, on average, 14 times. but if we introduce the elements of social policy, this difference is reduced to seven times. the virtuous balance must be struck between social protection and the conditions for maintaining competitiveness. and so we look at europe in a different way than you do. the european debate is sometimes our debate, 'i am aware of the moment in which i am speaking in this parliament and i do not want to go into subjects that are peculiar to your debate' but i would like to point out here today that although chile has often presented itself as a neoliberal model, nothing is further from the truth. we understand that the so-called washington consensus, which talks about liberalizing markets, privatising certain companies, deregulating and having balanced budgets, is something chile has done and at the right time. but what is not in the washington consensus is the need to have, with that growth, concrete public policies directed at the most disadvantaged sectors; concrete public policies to create a social safety net, without which no country is able to compete in the world. (applause) countries that are not able to have a minimum of social cohesion within their societies, in the long run, face an internal conflict within their society, which prevents outward competition. so what we've done is a tremendous effort to grow and we've grown. but this growth has been reflected in social policy, in education; we've done the most profound health reform, and let me tell you -- god, how hard is that? -- because health reform is dealing with a set of vested interests. i told the doctors friends we have in chile, "you, my friends, are all socialists in the morning, when you work in a public hospital, but you are all capitalists in the afternoon, when you serve your private clients". and when they threatened to strike, i said, "okay, but they're going to strike in the morning and in the afternoon". it's obvious, right? (applause) so, it's hard to do health care reform, because the only ones who are not organized are the patients in hospitals, and the only ones you have to speak up for are them. the reform therefore implies a tremendous shift in favour of primary health care. today, in chile, with respect to 25 pathologies - which will then be 56 pathologies, representing 80% of the medical interventions in hospitals - we can guarantee three things: a quality institution, a time limit for being cared for and, if the person has no resources, the resources are put by the fifteen million chileans. the process of reform was long, but it is part of social cohesion, which is essential. we understand your debate, on health, on the subject of forecasting; i want to point out that the average age in chile is very similar to the average age you have in europe, there are only a few months difference, and, therefore, having to deal with a social forecast of an aging population is very important for us. at the same time, we have been able to achieve a good macroeconomic situation and i would like to point out that chile fully meets the maastricht requirements. in other words, your debate is sometimes our debate too. and that's why we're following you closely, that's why we want to learn from what you've done as well. why not say it? europe is in many ways an important paradigm in the world today and sometimes you, immersed in its debate, do not realise that you are also an example of the kind of society that is being created in the world today. it is true, we know that to continue to grow equitably in the future and not be trapped in a scheme of exporting raw materials and low job creation and welfare, we have to make a strong investment in innovation, science and technology. we've quadrupled our efforts, but we're creating an innovation fund fund funded by a very small portion of the income that copper produces. copper is a non-renewable resource, which generates a lot of revenue for chile. that big windfall will be a fund for the future through science and technology. and in this respect, then, we have european cooperation. the agreement we have with europe is an agreement which also allows us access to the provisions you have in this area. we also want to perfect our integration into the world economy. we are convinced that countries progress when they take the whole planet as a possibility. we should not be frightened by globalization. in our case, globalisation has opened up new possibilities, even for small economies far removed from the major international centres. of course, no automatic mechanism is going to reduce the inequalities, instability and crises that globalization brings. but we need to have rules and institutions that are able to give a channel to the globalization process. if we are to achieve them, we must affirm the capacity of a global policy, which is emerging today, to give direction to society. i want to be frank here: we are concerned about globalisation taking giant strides, without the multilateral institutions which have to set the rules for the globalisation process moving as fast. (applause) and here we see europe, a crucial player in making the rules of trade fairer, in creating global public goods, in reorganizing international agencies and in macro-economic coordination among the world's major economic powers. who do i turn to when in south-southern chile the ozone layer is decreasing and the sun's rays are stronger as a result of gas emissions in the northern hemisphere? some people do not like the kyoto agreements; i have told the leaders of those countries that this is all right, but tell me, where am i going to complain about what is happening in the world? because what happens in my country is a problem outside my country. (applause) and here, i want to share with you something that seems central to us: for a country like chile, multilateralism ends up being local politics. that is why we believe in the united nations, of which we are a founding member. that is why we believe that the security council is the only body that has the legitimacy to use force in the name of humanity. (applause) so, at a time when our country was a member of the security council, we said no to an invasion of iraq if the decision was made outside the security council. (applause) and because we were consistent, we said yes and within 72 hours we made an effort and deployed our armed forces to haiti, because we felt that, as latin americans, we had an obligation to take our responsibilities when the security council asked us to, in a country with tremendous difficulties that is in latin america and the caribbean. i am convinced, then, that the problems of europe and those of the underdeveloped world will be solved together. as one european professor pointed out, if we persist in shutting ourselves up behind walls, we will perish at the hands of assailants from within and without. these shared values and objectives form the basis of the association agreement signed by chile and the european union on 18 november 2002. the european parliament approved this agreement unanimously by its members, in a political gesture which chile recognizes and thanks. that is why i have with me today, on this solemn occasion, the presidents of the senate and the chamber of deputies of chile, one of whom is a distinguished member of the chilean opposition to my government, but in these matters there is a state policy that unites all chileans. this agreement is the most comprehensive and comprehensive agreement to which chile has so far subscribed and also possibly the most ambitious of the european union. we're building our partnership. we are strengthening links in all areas and areas contained in the association agreement. there is a growing dynamism, as president borrell has recalled, in our exchange. the european union has increased its importance as the largest foreign investor in our economy, now representing 42% of total foreign investment in chile. our trade is very balanced geographically: 30% europe, 25% asia, 18% the united states, the rest latin america. we have signed a horizontal air transport agreement, which we hope will soon become an open skies agreement between chile and europe. we have had an open and intensive political dialogue with europe within the framework of the agreement, a dialogue between true allies, although we may sometimes differ on some policies - i do not want to talk about agricultural subsidies here - but with common views. in this context we are taking part in the european union's althea operation in bosnia and herzegovina: chilean troops are making their contribution to peace in a european country. because we are aware of these responsibilities, we are involved, as i said, in haiti, and we hope to work more closely with the european union in the new phase that will begin in that country after its elections. we are actively cooperating in the modernisation of our public institutions; we want to deepen our collaboration on environmental issues; we aim to exchange experiences and good practices to further strengthen social cohesion in chile. dear friends, latin americans are no strangers to the new diversity that is now being observed in europe. some of our brothers are following the opposite path that was opened centuries ago by the great european migration to our continent. not just spanish. in the middle of the 19th century, many of the countries that were struggling here to grow exported a lot, a lot of labor to america. now some are making the reverse route here. we have a strong commitment to the consolidation of a strategic partnership between europe and latin america and the caribbean. we want a greater european presence there. we see our association agreement as a significant step. we are following with interest and hope the negotiations of the european union with our mercosur brothers. we hope to have deeper association negotiations soon, and i would like the next euro-latin american summit, to be held in vienna next year, to be an intraregional strategic partnership with concrete tasks and measures. we in latin america sometimes put too much rhetoric in; we want concrete results in these agreements. i have repeatedly told the various european leaders that we need to understand the colombian process and the efforts being made there to find peace. we must all be vigilant in supporting colombia in its present effort for national coexistence. because we are united by our past, by what we are and by what we aspire to be, we want much more with europe. with a strong europe, united in its external action, determined to play the role that europe is meant to play in the world. a europe committed to free trade contributing to the success of the doha round. a europe which seeks social cohesion internally and also at global level. a europe that is committed to multilateralism and seeks to give a human face to globalisation. a europe that promotes dialogue and concertation between different cultural, religious and secular traditions in the framework of what has been called an alliance of civilizations. ladies and gentlemen of the house, 3,500 years ago a european said in the odyssey, "sing me musa" of the man of multiform wit, who was turned from his path again and again... who saw many cities and understood the thoughts of men... this is the story i ask you, musa, to tell us... i come here today, to this parliament, asking you to tell us this story, because this 3,500-year journey is also ours. we have sometimes been led astray from our path. many times. it's not impossible that we'll be derailed again in the future. but understanding each other's thinking, and grasping the variety of their cities has to lead us to a successful common destiny. we had your support in difficult years. today we are proud to meet again as partners and we will always recognize each other as friends, united not only by interests but also by common ideals and shared identities. that is the important value we want to preserve and that is why i have taken the liberty of addressing you. thank you so much for inviting me. (applause from the centre and the right)
thank you very much, mr president, for reminding us of the importance of europe. thank you for telling us that sometimes, when we get too caught up in our problems, we lose sight of the importance of our project. europe is not a project for itself alone, but also a response to a need in the world. thank you for saying so here in the european parliament, which has been honoured by your presence.
mr president, i am grateful for the information that commissioner rehn has given us on the progress of bulgaria and romania on the road to accession, a historic process for these two countries, which will complete the fifth enlargement, supported by this parliament and also by the european people's party. i'll focus on romania. we all know that the work done by this country to fulfil the commitments it had made and to be in a position to join the european union on the date envisaged did not end on the day the treaty was signed, but that the romanian authorities had to continue to make great efforts. the report you have presented to us today, mr rehn, is therefore very important. i welcome the overall positive tone, the good economic performance and also the concrete progress which you have mentioned and which shows the determination of the romanian government to fulfil its commitments. the information provided today also makes it clear that there are areas of concern where efforts must continue or, better still, be intensified, for example, in the fight against corruption, by strictly enforcing the legislation in force. this is one of the most serious problems affecting romania, and one which has been repeatedly stressed by this parliament and, of course, by my political group. i know that the romanian authorities are also aware of this serious problem, because president basescu made the fight against corruption one of his main slogans in last year's presidential elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a key point, since it concerns participation in a single area and market which, moreover, has to face serious and great migratory pressures at its external borders. but there has certainly been very significant progress, as mr rehn has stressed. i do not have time to go into specific areas, but i would like to stress that the priority attention given by the romanian authorities to the issue of competition and state aid has had a very good result. this is an area to which the treaty attaches great importance, also as regards the effective date of accession. i am also pleased that progress is being made, as you have told us, commissioner, in the reform of the administration of justice, a particularly important area which must continue to receive attention. in the months that remain until the final report from the commission next spring, the romanian government must give absolute priority to the completion of the tasks still to be carried out. the achievements must be an incentive. the report which the commissioner has presented to us today will be read carefully, from a constructive but also vigilant and demanding point of view. we must all be aware that we are in the midst of a process whose decisive moment will be the report which the commission has promised for april, with a view also to the possible presentation of the safeguard clause. in any case, the document you are presenting today is very important. i trust that the authorities in bucharest will react swiftly and positively to the warnings contained in it. in this task they will have our full support.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to reiterate what we have been saying for months now in the socialist group: we are strongly in favour of romania and bulgaria joining the european union, and we remain committed to and hopeful that their accession can be achieved in january 2007. we must also be as firm as possible in saying that, as a result of the monitoring we have been carrying out responsibly in both countries, we are concerned that their respective governments are still in time to carry out the reforms and to meet the requirements for accession on the date announced. it is time to encourage our partners to give a new impetus to the reforms mentioned so that we can reach the agreed date on time. we will not accept any new demands from either of the two candidate countries, nor will we accept any demands from either of them that exceed what was demanded of each of our states when we finished our own membership, but we will not accept any reduction in the agreed conditions either. bulgaria and romania are now two situations which we must assess on their merits separately. it is clear that it is their respective governments, and not us, who hold the key to opening the doors of the european union to their peoples. we, parliament and the commission, want to help, not hinder, in this final phase of the process. finally, we appreciate a divergent movement in both cases. in bulgaria, the political forces have succeeded in forming a government of national unity and everyone seems to be joining forces to make the best possible progress towards community integration. in romania, on the other hand, it is very worrying to see how the authorities seem to have launched an operation to harass the opposition, with a change of rules that interferes with the democratic play of the institutions. without going into further evaluations, we will state our impression that the row between the main political forces of the country does not seem to be a way forward in the consensus for reforms and for negotiation with the european union.
member of the commission. i can be brief, because the decision has not yet been taken. as soon as the decision is taken, parliament will be informed and those closely involved with the whole dossier will of course be informed first.
member of the commission. that is an interesting question. i can assure you that we are aware of the importance of that aspect. it is one part of the inquiry into the energy sector. we are looking forward to the results and you will certainly be informed of the outcome.
madam president, i would like to return to the subject raised by my colleague, mr pinheiro, the indes natural gas ppa. this ppa has raised serious doubts in spain about its effect on competition and its compatibility with the treaties. my question is very simple: what are the regulatory deadlines for notifying a transaction of this kind? has the commission been asked to intervene by any government or by any competition authority in any member state so far? if so, on what date?
madam president, i simply want to ask the commissioner again on the same subject.
member of the commission. the question is quite clear: what can be done to stimulate and increase investment in alternative sources of energy or for other purposes? in this respect, it is worth mentioning that some have voiced their perplexity at not seeing the authorities take measures to capture part of the oil companies’ windfall profits resulting from the latest oil price increases. oil companies should behave in a responsible manner and ensure that a significant share of their profits are reinvested in increasing the capacity of the sector to cope with the growing demand, thereby laying the foundations for more reasonable prices in the future – and, by the way, creating business for themselves. that is, investing both in the production of crude oil and in the refining business. indeed, oil and energy companies should be strongly encouraged to develop new energy sources with a view to dealing with the future scarcity of oil. the commission has continued to make efforts through its contacts with the industry to increase the awareness of oil companies of the appropriateness of reinvesting part of their profits in activities that allow for more sustainable economic growth, such as the development of alternative energies and energy efficiency.
madam president, the commissioner's tasks are very important and we would therefore like to know in this parliament whether she is sticking to audited and registered balance sheets in companies or creative accounting and also whether she is following the technicians in her department or, on the contrary, whether she is going to invent new theories for us.
member of the commission. i would like to begin by saying whether we are strict or less strict. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not going to be able to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am trying to be objective and to do what is necessary to protect the health of citizens in the european union and of course in greece, as well as to protect ecosystems and the environment. we are therefore dealing objectively and with an effort to improve conditions for health and the environment and the issues of going to court and, i repeat, i always try not to go to court but to find other ways of dealing with the issues. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system. what i can tell you is that depending on the circumstances in each country, the best way is applied. the way in which waste is disposed of is not the same in northern and southern europe, or in one country in relation to another or even in areas within the same country. there are reasons why in one country incineration and recycling are preferred, in another country composting is preferred to improve the soil and, of course, our main objective is always to try to prevent the creation of waste. the european union has financed the first project, the tertiary treatment of waste, and now the drying plant. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it's a problem that was created by the negligence of making this drying plant when it should have been ten years ago, and as a result, this mud has built up. but it is not our job to suggest what will happen to this sludge and how the government will deal with the problem.
madam president, commissioner, does the commission know whether all the member states have transposed existing community legislation on the environment and waste treatment, whether they have incorporated it into their legislation and whether they apply it correctly? do you know if all the states do it?
member of the commission. it is very difficult to make a blanket statement; obviously we have a ban on driftnets with a very large span because of the negative effect they can have on the sustainability of fish and their impact on bycatch cetaceans. there we have a total ban on the use of driftnets. with driftnets that are much smaller in size and where there is no risk of cetacean by-catches, the commission’s position is more open. if, on the basis of scientific study, it can be concluded that driftnets do not create undue pressures on the sustainability of salmon or any other fish stocks and there is no risk of by-catches of cetaceans, then we take a more open approach. that is why, because of the reports and criticism in ireland, we have commissioned the study to see what the situation is and how the management of the stock is proceeding. if we see that there are undue pressures on sustainability then we will take the necessary remedial action. perhaps it is somewhat misleading to point the finger at one particular type of net. there could be other types of net that are not classified as driftnets but that, in particular circumstances, could have an even more negative impact on the sustainability of fisheries. therefore the task of the commission is to restore sustainable fisheries where they do not exist and where we are fishing sustainably – which is the exception, not the rule – to maintain sustainability.
member of the commission. it is the responsibility of the member states to ensure effective control, inspection and enforcement of the rules of the common fisheries policy, which include a prohibition on the use of driftnets targeting highly migratory species. it is, on the other hand, the responsibility of the commission to evaluate and monitor member states' compliance with this obligation. for a number of years, the commission has monitored member states closely to ensure they are taking the necessary measures for proper control and enforcement of the driftnet prohibition. although in the atlantic the situation has proved to be satisfactory, in the mediterranean serious problems persist. the last inspections carried out by commission inspectors this summer confirmed that driftnets were currently being used in italy, france and spain. the commission has already launched infringement proceedings against these member states. reasoned opinions were addressed to italy and france and a letter of formal notice to spain. the opinions and the letter from the commission challenged the lack of proper control and enforcement by the competent authorities of the member states concerned as regards the prohibition on driftnets. the commission is also examining closely, on the basis of the information at its disposal, national legislation which is not, or seems not to be, in conformity with the community probation on driftnets. to cite an example, in the infringement procedure against france the commission challenged the compatibility with community legislation of a french decree allowing the use by french fishermen of the thonaille, a driftnet targeting bluefin tuna. this legislation was recently annulled by the french conseil d´état, which, in its decision, used the same arguments as the commission had used in its reasoned opinion. i would also like to stress that, although the commission is aware of the assertion that almeira's surface longliner fleet has suffered a 40% reduction in catches, as stated by the honourable member, there is no scientific evidence that such a reduction has actually occurred and that this is caused by the unfair competition attributable to non-spanish fleets. representatives of the spanish fleet concerned have been asked to provide the data to support their allegation. in any case, i can confirm that the commission will take all necessary steps in accordance with the rules of the ec treaty and of the common fisheries policy to ensure that member states comply with the community legislation prohibiting driftnets.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his sincerity. it is well known, as the commissioner has very well shown, that driftnets are still being used in the mediterranean. there is a sense of helplessness among fishermen who comply with the regulation, but there is something more serious than all that. this summer it was found that of the 37 vessels found with driftnets prohibited by environmental organizations, 18 had already received subsidies for their conversion. i think that this problem cannot be left to the member states alone. i think the commission must act and it has done so with some states, but this is clearly not enough. the regulation cannot be allowed to be flouted and certain practices allowed at the same time as subsidies are granted. we really hope for a response to your intervention.
ladies and gentlemen, we are resuming the sitting and, in accordance with the agenda, we are proceeding to the debate on the commission's statement on patents for biotechnological inventions.
mr president, i believe that the commission is doing its duty by implementing the community directive and i must therefore congratulate mr mccreevy on his presentation and the way in which he has presented the matter to us. i share mrs wallis' view that it was not the time to adopt a resolution on such a complicated subject, as this discussion is proving, in which a number of facts are being brought forward. however, it seems to me a fundamental principle that no one can oppose human progress by invoking theological principles that have little to do with the reality of the times. right now there are millions of people suffering from degenerative diseases as a result of the lack of progress in this area. it seems that we are going back to the middle ages and i believe that in the 21st century we must focus on the need for scientific progress and therefore we must oppose the patentability of biotechnological inventions, which have to do, for example, with the connection of certain cells. i think it is absolutely contrary to the ethical requirements of a humanity which is on the move, which is making progress and which will not allow people to continue to suffer from degenerative diseases. i therefore think that the commission has done very well in presenting this report, which is possibilist, which opens up possibilities, and i congratulate mr mccreevy again on his presentation. i hope that we can continue to study the subject with more serenity, but always thinking of the possibilities that open up for the future of human research.
to conclude this debate we have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
we now move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the report by mr bill newton dunn, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council framework decision on the fight against organised crime (com (2005) 0006 - c6-0061/2005 - 2005/0003 (cns)) (a6-0277/2005).
thank you very much, mr. catania. your comments will be submitted to the presidency for consideration in due course. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs ewa klamt, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on a community approach to the management of economic migration (com (2004) 0811 - 2005/2059 (ini)) (a6-0286/2005).
this debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
we now come to the debate on the report by mr mario mauro, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks and amending council regulation (ec) no 2236/95 (com (2004) 0475 - c6-0086/2004 - 2004/0154 (cod)) (a6-0283/2005).
the commission's vice-president mr president, the report by mr mauro on which we have just been debating is a very good report. i would like to thank mr mauro once again, as well as the members of the committee on budgets, the committee on transport and the committee on industry, research and energy for their support of the commission's proposal. the reactions today show how much you care about this subject. this makes perfect sense, since in an enlarged europe - and i am very sensitive to those who have spoken on behalf of the new member states - transeuropean networks are one of the key elements for european integration, the internal market and the lisbon strategy. there is a broad consensus between our two institutions on the objectives to be achieved. i hope that the final decisions on the new financial perspective will take full account of this priority and avoid disappointments, such as those mentioned by mr savary, who very rightly pointed out that it was probably a bit risky to put forward a proposal even though we did not have the financial perspective. but i will answer mr savary, as i have answered all of you, that it seems to me that parliament and the commission must do everything possible to ensure that the financial perspective is tailored to the needs of the europe you have both described so well. the budgetary envelope is now being discussed. as i said at the beginning of the debate, the proposal sets an overall budget of eur 20.690 billion in commitment appropriations for the period 2007-13, including eur 20.350 billion for the transport component and eur 340 million for the energy component. the commission welcomes your full support for this approach to transport. i note, however, that in line with the work of the temporary committee on the new financial perspectives and the resolution adopted by your parliament, it is proposed to reduce the proposed budget for the ten-energy (see amendment no 34). i would point out that this would be less than the current 155 million for the period 2000-06, even though the union now has ten new member states. if parliament were to confirm this possibility, the tens-energy could hardly have an impact on the development of energy networks at a time when the global energy context is pushing us to strengthen gas and electricity infrastructures, which directly contribute to our energy security. the amount requested is also justified by the need to support, in a few well-justified cases, investments beyond the study phase. the commission, i repeat, therefore wishes to maintain the proposed amount. i would like to return to the possibility that you are planning to finance up to 50% of projects which allow the crossing of natural barriers. these are amendments nos 19 and 20. the commission proposal provides that this type of project may be financed up to 30% of the total cost of the project, while the exceptional maximum rate of 50% - exceptional, i say - should be reserved for the crossborder sections of priority projects. experience shows that some member states concentrate their financial resources on the sections of priority projects located on their own national territory, whereas for cross-border sections, there are generally significant delays. by increasing the rate of community financing for this type of section, the commission wishes to exert a leverage effect to facilitate the implementation of these projects. that is why the commission is not in a position to accept your amendment to extend the maximum rate for cross-border sections to natural barriers. let us be clear: the budget of €20.3 billion proposed by the commission for the tens-transport will not allow 50% to be used everywhere. we will only be able to give a boost to a few crossborder projects, because it is really in the community's interest to carry out these projects. if we stick to the concept of natural barrier, this could also apply to sections of projects within the member states, for example where a geographical constraint, a mountain, a river or the sea, requires the construction of a work of art. of course, there are costs involved, but, to my great regret, we do not have sufficient resources to implement this provision, if it were to be adopted. i understand that, since i myself come from a mountain country, but i think we really must stick to the maximum rate for the cross-border sections of the priority projects. thirdly, i would like to make a comment on amendment no 22 and the principle of non-cumulative community aid. if we were to remove this principle of non-cumulative community aid, we would be in contradiction with the financial regulation applicable to the general budget. but of course this does not mean that the different sections of the same project cannot be financed under the various community financial instruments and that for each of these sections the structural funds or the cohesion fund cannot be used successively! you also want the multiannual indicative programme to be submitted to the council and the european parliament for approval. the definition of the multiannual indicative programme is an implementing measure, since the european parliament and the council have already defined the priorities in the guidelines for the trans-european transport and energy networks. the allocation of financial resources through the multiannual programme should be based on technical assessments of the state of progress of projects, among the priorities set by parliament and the council. as regards environmental considerations, i confirm the commission's commitment to fully respect existing requirements, while avoiding the introduction of the entire list of provisions in the legislative texts into the regulation. it is clear that the transeuropean networks must be a model for the environment. i was astonished, mr president, when i said that mr henin - he has now left, fortunately - was completely wrong, because the meeting to which i was invited gave me the opportunity to explain that the all-terrain vehicle has major drawbacks for the environment and for future mobility in europe. i therefore defended the interests of rail freight at this meeting, contrary to what mr henin said, and i would remind you that the majority of the corridors in the transeuropean networks are for rail. i would also like to say that we are naturally very keen to encourage the introduction of the european railway signalling system, ertms, because it is through this system that we ensure interoperability throughout the european railway system. i do not want to go into more detail at this time, mr president. i repeat that this proposal is an ambitious proposal for supporting transeuropean networks. it is a key element for european integration, the internal market and the lisbon strategy. i think that parliament's support for this proposal is essential. i am very clear that now is the time to send a strong message to the council, mr president. the excellent report by mr mauro will certainly contribute to the proper development of the codecision procedure. some of you have just mentioned the failures of the essen programme. i believe that today we have made a number of arrangements, in very close cooperation with your committee on transport and tourism, so that these priority projects can be carried out with the assurance that a number of deadlines will be met. i think that all this obviously depends very much on the financial perspectives, but what we can say tonight is that, thanks to parliament, thanks to the commission, if the financial perspectives, mr president, are what europe needs, we will be able to implement these transeuropean networks effectively this time, which will undoubtedly be a decisive element for the single market, for mobility in europe. i thank you again and i thank parliament for all the attention and interest it has paid to this project, for which mr mauro has been the excellent rapporteur. on the other amendments, mr president, i will convey our detailed position to you, if you will allow me. i have taken the liberty of explaining some of the main amendments, but we shall submit this list to you so as not to delay the closure of this debate. for the commission's position on parliament's amendments, see annex 319 to the commission's proposal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission can accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 11, 15, 17, 23, 27, 28 and 31. the commission can accept in principle the following amendments: 7, 25, 36, 38 and 45. the commission can accept in part the following amendments: 13, 35, 37, 41 and 46. the commission cannot accept the following amendments: 4, 6, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 39, 40, 42, 43, 44, 47 and 48.
we now come to the last item on the agenda for today, namely the debate on the report by mrs mojca drčar murko, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 95/2/ec on food additives other than colours and sweeteners and directive 94/35/ec on sweeteners used in foodstuffs (com (2004) 0650 - c6-0139/2004 - 2004/0237 (cod)) (a6-0191/2005).
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs murko, for the excellent cooperation we have had, which is what will enable us to adopt this proposal at first reading, with some compromise amendments that we have reached, including those concerning traditional products and the use of nitrites in them. both the rapporteur and the commissioner have explained the content of these proposals at length. these proposals are intended to update and supplement existing community legislation by adapting it to recent technical and scientific developments and to the judgments of the court of justice. i therefore consider that the compromise we have reached is a good compromise, which meets the objectives of those judgments. however, it must be said that this revision - a technical modification, as the commissioner has called it - only serves a function which we could define as a patch. i therefore consider it important that the commission submit its proposal for a general review of the legislation on food additives and sweeteners, and also the one announced on sports drinks. sports drinks are sold with little control, both in gyms and supermarkets; everywhere, one finds sports drinks. food additives are the result of constant technological progress, which not only allows us to enjoy higher quality food products, but also offers greater food safety to consumers. however, improper use must be prevented and reviews kept up to date, so that ignorance and media pressure do not negatively influence consumer confidence and damage the image of food containing these additives, which is not a drawback but an improvement in food safety. finally, i would like to point out that i do not agree with the amendments tabled by the green group, and in particular those which call for the commission to submit a report reviewing all existing authorizations for additives. this amendment duplicates the requirements of the council framework directive 89/107/eec on food additives, which, in its annex ii, specifies that all additives shall be under a state of permanent observation and shall be evaluated whenever necessary.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like briefly to correct an omission. i did not thank the rapporteur. she did an excellent job and i second the congratulations expressed by the honourable members. it is true that this is a technical subject, but it touches upon many sensitivities. mrs drčar murko did an excellent job in dealing with this issue and reaching the compromise that we have before us today. i am optimistic that we will have an agreement at first reading.
that concludes the debate. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
we begin our agenda with the joint debate on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2006. we have examined - the report by mr giovanni pittella, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2006 (section iii, commission) (c6-0299/2005 - 2005/2001 (((bud)) (a6-0309/2005) and - the report by mr valdis dombrovskis, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2006 (section i, european parliament; section ii, council; section iv, court of justice; section v, court of auditors; section vi, economic and social committee; section vii, committee of the regions; section viii (a), european ombudsman; section viii (b), european data protection supervisor) (c6-0300/2005 - 2005/2002 (((bud)) (a6-0307/2005).
mr pittella, thank you for your explanations and the strict use of your time. the advantage of the european union is that we can be sure that anything but blood will flow through the halls of the charlemagne building. thank you for your image, which reminds us of the present reality.
thank you very much, mr. dombrovskis. we will all work together to improve our multilingual communication procedures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful to the commissioner for being here and i am deeply sorry for the absence of the president-in-office of the council, who has been with us throughout the budgetary procedure and who, just when we are having the first reading debate and a trilogue, has decided to be absent. i would also like to thank both rapporteurs for their presence and for the work they have done. i hope that we can still reach agreement on some of the amendments and separate votes today. it is important that we have a uniform first reading, because we must reach the conciliation on the 24th all united and confident of the support of the political groups and the members of this house. this year our negotiating position is being very difficult, due to two exceptional circumstances. first, we are at the end of the rope in category number four of foreign actions. three such important priorities as iraq, afghanistan and the tsunami did not exist in 1999, when the current financial perspective was launched; category 4 has been underfunded from the start and we have never been able to make a normal budget. this year, unfortunately, neither. secondly, there is no sign of a break in the member states' positions on the new financial perspective; we risk entering 2006 without a viable financial plan. the european parliament must take precautions, because the application of article 272 of the treaty is, for the first time - i repeat, for the first time - a real possibility. we therefore table a draft budget which does not break the ceiling of the financial perspective but which does come close enough. and we are asking for an increase in pay and a use of flexibility far beyond what the council wants. my group supports mr pittella and mr dombrovskis, who have presented a very courageous and innovative draft budget to the european parliament, and asks them to maintain their positions at second reading and conciliation.
in writing. this report on the management of economic migration is a web of lies, untruths and ideological bias. it is so exaggerated in its wording that it serves the immigrants themselves by systematically promoting a policy of submersion at european level. no national government could present such a catalogue of measures without being returned to the next election in opposition. mrs klamt wants to go the european way, leaving the people in the dark about the crime being committed behind their backs. fortunately, the council in its great wisdom has maintained the principle of unanimity for all matters concerning legal immigration. the absurdity of such proposals can be illustrated by just one example: "economic immigration can help to manage migration flows...and has positive effects on the labour market". this is obviously not true: the more we accept legal immigrants, the more illegal immigration will explode, hoping, as in spain or italy, to be legalized someday soon. the european parliament would be ridiculed and would not consider adopting such a report which, if adopted, would bring millions of men and women to our frontiers, attracted by the eldorado promised by our sorcerer's apprentices.
i am pleased to welcome a delegation from the verkhovna rada, the parliament of ukraine, to the official gallery. (applause) this delegation, composed of nine members, is chaired by mr valery pustovoytenko. they have come to strasbourg for the eighth meeting of the parliamentary committee on cooperation between the european union and ukraine, which will be held today and tomorrow. i wish you and the whole parliamentary committee on eu-ukraine cooperation a very fruitful meeting.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the basis of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the next informal european council. we have here the prime minister of the united kingdom, mr blair, whom i would like to thank in particular for the effort he has made to be with us today. i think it is very positive that on the eve of the hampton court meeting parliament can receive directly from the president of the council the appropriate explanations of the reason for this meeting. thank you, mr blair. you have the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i want to say first of all that i regret that any progress in the financial perspective is being postponed until december, because i think it is dangerous to rush the time. you know that this will have repercussions on economic growth policy, on solidarity with the new member states, on investment in innovative policies and on strengthening social justice and competitiveness in the context of globalisation. not in agriculture, because agriculture has to be paid for religiously, because it is an obligatory expense. but i also congratulate you, because we have returned to something essential from an earlier era, a principle which was used in the era of the financial packages called 'jacques delors'. first, let us define and agree on the political priorities of the european union - we want to do this together - and then, as the president-in-office of the council, mr blair, has said, let us agree on the necessary financial package. but these will be words that are carried away by the wind if we continue on the one per cent corset, because they will not square the accounts with all the priorities that have been mentioned. it must be understood, if anything, from the words spoken by mr blair that the figures so far shuffled in the council are to be renegotiated. i think we must be consistent with what we stand for and provide the necessary financial instruments. in june this parliament fulfilled its duty as budgetary authority. i think you have a serious responsibility now to do your part and to seek a common position in the european council, because it is true what they say: 'what is not in the budget is not in the world'. all the words and priorities we set are useless unless they are accompanied by political will and financial resources. in conclusion, i would like to say that i absolutely agree that europe is moving in the right direction. the bodywork is the constitution, the engine is the euro and the petrol is the budget.
mr president, i would like to begin by saying that i would like to acknowledge once again what an excellent speech in the european parliament, such as that delivered today by mr tony blair, means. firstly, because it is a very political speech and political speeches are needed in the european parliament, because it takes us away from the routine and because, at the same time, it certainly has a capacity for renewal and regeneration, which i believe we should not underestimate. there is much to be said but we must not in any way underestimate or minimize the importance of mr blair's political speech this afternoon, just as his speech of 23 june this year. i would like to stress that i particularly value the fact that it sets priorities, identifies problems and at the same time defines leadership, that is to say, the ability to choose, synthesise and concentrate the political efforts which the european union must make. and that said, what is needed is that this list of problems is not only taken up by mr blair but also by the council which will be meeting this weekend in britain. and secondly, it should be stressed - and this is what i think i miss most in mr blair's speech - that between the meaning of the guidelines he has set out and the actions there is a passage he has not spoken about: he must make an effort to define what the political role of the european union is in these matters, as my colleague mr karas recalled a few minutes ago. it is not enough to have guidelines and it is not enough to have actions. there is an intermediate action: defining the political role of the european union in the fight against terrorism, in immigration and in universities. and that means an effort by the council, and the european council has to give the european union a boost by ceding some of its powers, some of its sovereignty, so that the european union and its own institutions can carry out the task that undoubtedly belongs to them. i hope that this excellent speech, which i do not underestimate, will not become another frustration at the end of this semester's european council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this minute to send a direct message to the british presidency, starting with the image used by my colleague barbara dührkop. if we want to get moving, as the president-in-office of the council has said, we need an engine, which is the euro - and we must remember that the most competitive country in the world, now that we are talking about the economy, is finland, which is in the euro - we also need a fuel, which is the budget agreement on the financial perspective and, moreover, we need a working chassis, which is basically the constitution. in relation to what the prime minister, mr blair, has said, research and development and innovation are in the pipeline, but the biggest cuts have been made in these areas; energy policy, we can make progress, it is not community policy; universities, it is not; erasmus, yes, we can also increase it; and immigration, which is very important: we must boost the european border agency, readmission agreements and attention to africa. finally, in the fight against terrorism, there has been a change of position since 7 july; minister clarke said here that if the constitution took this to the first pillar it would be an important step. i therefore believe that the british presidency has many opportunities to make proposals to make these objectives a reality.
president-in-office of the council. let me deal first with the issue of progress towards achievement of an agreement on future financing. i would simply reiterate what i have said before this afternoon, which is that we are sincere in our endeavours to try and reach agreement in december. the tenor of the question reflects the sense of urgency on the part of not just one member state but a number of different member states about the need to reach agreement on future financing. i set out before the council the terms of the third cohesion report on economic and social policy, which reported on progress. it would be helpful to make it clear that the target date for adoption of the eu-wide rural development strategy is autumn 2005. the framework for monitoring and evaluation should be agreed by the end of 2005 and member states will then produce national strategy plans in line with an overarching european union strategy. so clearly there will be a national as well as a european locus at that juncture. these plans will include quantified objectives for rural development spending, tailored to regional circumstances, against which, of course, the effectiveness of the spending can then be judged.
mr president, mr minister, the british government has been in favour of lowering the cap and reducing agricultural subsidies, so i ask you whether the council's presidency-in-office believes that young people living in rural and mountainous regions will be better integrated into their natural environment and will have more opportunities for life with this proposal to abandon the common agricultural policy.
member of the commission. madam president, last month nearly 7 million afghans went to the polls to elect a parliament for the first time in 36 years. this was the culmination of a political transitional process agreed in bonn four years ago. i visited afghanistan at the beginning of september to look at the election preparations and see for myself the practical impact our assistance is having on the ground. i was also able to discuss all the challenges ahead and the next phase of the stabilisation process with president karzai and his ministers, as well as with afghan civil society and the united nations. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the elections, the preparations for the post-bonn period and future eu-afghanistan relations. the european union has supported afghanistan’s recent election in a number of ways. it is no exaggeration to say that the election could not have taken place without the european union, including contributions by the member states. we funded 40% of the election budget, contributing eur 159 million. we have also sought to improve transparency by deploying an eu election observation mission, headed by mrs emma bonino who is present today. this has followed the process since july. it also benefited from the cooperation of an observer delegation from parliament, led by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, who is here today as well. i think we can say that the eu eom was the single largest international observer group in the country. its presence was extremely important. in its preliminary statement, the eu eom reported that the election day itself had been largely peaceful, the process up to that point had been generally well administered and the elections marked a step forward for afghanistan’s democratic development. nevertheless, it also noted a number of concerns, for instance with the whole campaign environment, the choice of voting system and the complaints mechanism. i understand that in some provinces fraud and irregularities have come to light during the counting phase. the election observation mission has urged the electoral authorities to deal diligently with these concerns. i would like to congratulate mrs bonino for her team’s excellent work so far. i look forward to the final report, which will include an overall assessment of the entire election process, as well as recommendations to improve the conduct of future elections. mrs bonino will be travelling to kabul again before the end of the year to present the report to election stakeholders. what comes next, after the bonn process? afghanistan has come a long way since the fall of the taliban. i am proud that the european commission’s assistance has had a tangible impact. we have pursued a combination of visible reconstruction, lasting capacity-building and improvements in the day-to-day lives of the afghan people. we are on track to deliver the eur 1 billion we pledged in tokyo for the period 2002 to 2006. if we think back to the chaos, devastation and repression in afghanistan four years ago, it is clear that the country has made progress. five million children are back in school, one-third of them girls. eighty per cent of children have been vaccinated against measles and polio. roads, schools and clinics are being built and many of them are already working. however, the situation is still fragile and the improvements are not yet fully sustainable. it is clear that the country still has a long way to go. more work is needed, particularly on good governance, the rule of law, security, counter-narcotics and development. i therefore very much welcome the idea floated by the united nations at the end of august of a major international conference, hopefully early in 2006, to draw up the ‘post-bonn compact’ between afghanistan and the international community. the european union will again be an important participant in the conference. what should the compact do? it should focus particularly on afghan ownership and sustainability. lasting stabilisation will not be possible unless the afghan side is willing and able to take greater responsibility for the transition process and for making it sustainable. the bonn agreement showed the value of clear-cut targets and timetables to ensure momentum. so we should aim to incorporate clear benchmarks in the post-bonn compact. some form of joint afghan-international monitoring of progress would also be useful. the post-bonn compact should be a two-way street: it should contain clear-cut commitments from the afghan side and commitments from the international community to stay engaged financially, politically and militarily. finally, i turn to the role of the european union. the european union and its member states have been playing an important role in afghanistan. together we accounted for one-third of the usd 12.5 billion in grants pledged at the tokyo and bonn conferences. eu member states are currently contributing 80% of the troops in isaf. the eu special representative in afghanistan, francesc vendrell, has been doing excellent work politically. under the auspices of the british presidency, we are currently discussing with president karzai’s government a joint declaration on an eu-afghan partnership. it would be an important political signal of continuing eu commitment to afghanistan. it would also make clear our expectations, the kind of further progress we want to support in afghanistan in fields such as governance, development and human rights. my hope is that this can be concluded in the weeks ahead so that it would be in place ahead of any post-bonn conference and could help to shape discussions there. finally, i believe that the european union is both entitled and obliged to play a major part in ensuring the success of the post-bonn compact. the commission will, in any case, remain engaged.
i would like to thank mrs ferrero-waldner for her report. firstly, for its positive and active commitment to the cause of democratic consolidation in that country; secondly, for the good judgment of sending an election observation mission to that country, which is going through very difficult circumstances. this has ensured the presence of the european union, which is alive, despite the crisis we are experiencing and the debate we have witnessed this afternoon with the president-in-office of the council, the british prime minister, mr blair, and it clearly shows that we are not self-absorbed in contemplating our own problems, but that we are in solidarity with the problems of other countries that are suffering and have experienced extremely difficult circumstances, as is the case in afghanistan. i welcome the presence of the members of the european parliament's delegation in this debate. i see mr evans, mrs scheele, my friend philippe morillon, mrs nicholson and mr schröder. i would like to take this opportunity of the debate in the plenary of our parliament to express our appreciation, as we did at the press conference with emma bonino in afghanistan, for the candidates who died in this electoral process, for the electoral officers and, above all, for the citizens of the european union who lost their lives in this noble mission to contribute to the cause of democratic consolidation in that country. i am thinking of the french soldier who died just as we were carrying out our mission and also of the 17 brave spanish soldiers who lost their lives in a helicopter accident, to whom we paid tribute with gratitude and appreciation on our visit to herat, the base where they had their headquarters, and also on our visit to the governor, the president, the united nations authorities, female candidates and the general in chief of the nato forces mission in that country. i would like to say that, from a general point of view, our mission as european parliamentarians fully accepted the conclusions drawn from the extraordinary work carried out by our colleague, mrs emma bonino, and we also expressed, from a political point of view, our opinion on the priorities which the european union should give to the future. we are thinking, above all, of the consolidation of democracy in the country, from an institutional point of view, and of respect for human rights and, above all, the rights of women, because democratic development in a country cannot be built without the contribution of its men and women and their right to determine their own destiny for the future. madam president, the european parliament delegation expressed the wish that our parliament should make its contribution to the post-bonn process by hosting and organising a wide-ranging conference involving the commission, the member states participating in joint nato actions and, of course, the new representatives in the afghan parliament, in order to outline and shape the developments of its own future. we also thought it important that the european parliament should give its full support to the joint declaration which the commission is going to sign with the new authorities and the afghan government, in order to provide an institutional framework and a channel for the broad and generous cooperation which our parliament has been developing. we also ask the commission to consider the possibility of establishing a comprehensive association agreement in the future, which could channel and establish an institutional format for future cooperation. madam president, we are very reassured by the statement made by commissioner ferrero-waldner, in which she says that the european union will continue to contribute to the dividends of peace, understanding, harmony and reconciliation in that troubled country which has hitherto been afghanistan. i would like to conclude, madam president, by thanking emma bonino, with whom we have worked in a magnificent way, for her hospitality and support to the european parliament delegation.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs jäätteenmäki, who has worked so hard and so well on this report, for her receptive attitude to the amendments tabled by my political group. i also want to thank commissioner benita ferrero-waldner for staying up late with us. the historic barcelona declaration, which led to the first euro-mediterranean summit, which was hosted by president felipe gonzalez as president of the european union, is in fact ten years old. the prospects for the euro-mediterranean partnership were very promising. it is true that the results have been irregular and that much remains to be done, but the obstacles and difficulties are and were enormous, and it is not reasonable to ignore them. the mediterranean, the cradle of european culture, has also been and is still, in part, a sea of conflict and confrontation. the euro-mediterranean partnership makes sense if it is the instrument used to remove these obstacles and to promote dialogue and cooperation between the north and the south, but also to put south-south relations in these regions, which are very weak, on the front line. the important thing is to set clear, viable and realistic priorities for the barcelona + 10 summit in november, which is not to say that they should not be ambitious. we now have a framework of reference, which is the alliance of civilizations, proposed by president zapatero and adopted by the united nations, through the declaration of its secretary-general in july of this year. a necessary condition for achieving the objectives is to reduce tension in the area, especially in the israeli-palestinian conflict, the real achilles' heel of euro-mediterranean relations. the main objective of this partnership is to create an area of shared prosperity, making progress in reducing poverty, overcoming the socioeconomic divide between the north and the south, and promoting, as has been said, political reforms, democratisation and the rule of law and respect for human rights. there are many other issues which have been raised in this debate: the problem of managing migratory flows, discrimination against women, the serious environmental problems of the mare nostrum, the dialogue between the three monotheistic religions, the need for local and regional cooperation, the fight against terrorism, the control of weapons of mass destruction, the participation of the peoples, etc. but above all - and i conclude - the european union and its member states are particularly concerned by the need for a high degree of political will and economic commitment and to believe that we are playing a very big game in euro-mediterranean relations. the mediterranean is the european union's most vulnerable flank and if we do not take this issue seriously, history will take its toll.
madam president, the mediterranean region is very important for the member states and for the european union as a whole. it is clear that the countries on the southern shore do not have the same level of political development and/or economic prosperity. however, most of these countries are faced with various deficiencies, to a greater or lesser degree: political deficiencies, poor democratic development and limited pluralism; economic deficiencies, because we are facing outdated economies, unable to generate employment for a growing population and without sufficient attractiveness to attract the necessary foreign investment; and social deficiencies, high poverty and social inequality, illiteracy, discrimination against women - as has been said here - , poor capacity of their public institutions, with negative consequences in the fields of health, education, the economy, border control, and much more. the mediterranean region should therefore be a priority for the union, not only because of the many historical, political, economic and social links between the countries on both sides, but also for other reasons, such as security, including the threat of terrorism, or the challenge of immigration. cooperation between the two sides of the atlantic is therefore indispensable and must cover a very wide range of activities. cooperation has to work in both directions, i repeat, in both directions. the problems of these neighbouring countries affect us, our future is shared; it is impossible to create a wall between the north and the south of the mediterranean, and even less so in today's globalised world. we must therefore deepen our relations with these countries, encourage them and help them to overcome the shortcomings to which i referred earlier. that is why the report we are going to adopt tomorrow insists on the need for modernization at the political, economic, social and institutional levels and also at the level of human rights. in this respect, i welcome the commissioner's words and the importance she attaches to these issues. there is a need - and i think we should all agree - for a reform momentum on the south bank. the european union cannot be concerned only with the stability of these countries; stability cannot, in the end, become the alibi for immobility. if we insist on the need for reform in our countries, how can we not insist on the need for reform in your countries? these countries must evolve. otherwise, the problems will increase, and the political and economic crises - and also in the field of immigration and security - will only grow, and in the end, non-reform will be the one that brings instability. hence the importance of the barcelona process and the european neighbourhood policy. they must be the union's fundamental instruments, firstly to demonstrate to these countries the priority they occupy in our external action and, secondly, to help them, to demand that they also cooperate loyally with us in solving the problems that affect us and, finally, to encourage them to reform. a reform that can bring prosperity, freedom and ultimately more stability to these countries and, therefore, to the whole mediterranean basin. i would like the next barcelona summit to rise to the challenge and i would of course like to conclude by thanking mrs jäätteenmäki for her efforts.
madam president, for the past few years the european union has been watching the countries of eastern and central europe carefully. most of the union’s attention has been focused on enlargement, the new accession process and future enlargement. unfortunately, southern europe and the southern basin of the mediterranean often only received attention when problems or specific issues arose – as when thousands of immigrants arrived in ceuta, melilla or lampedusa, or when the situation became extremely difficult for the western saharan refugees in tindouf. the human rights situation in the southern and eastern southern basin of the mediterranean has not improved. there are no clear improvements in this field, or in democracy, freedom and transparency. i must point out that economic differences have also increased over the years. in the european union, member states continue to be keenly attached to their bilateral relations with governments south of the mediterranean. this clearly makes the partnership less coherent. this is an old problem of european politics not being able to act with a single voice, even in the relationship with such strategic areas as the area south of the mediterranean. there is still the recurring question as to who is going to pick up the phone and speak on behalf of europe. i must mention another important deficiency in our intercultural dialogue. some very important cultures and languages are ostracised and not represented. i should like to mention the amazigh language and culture, which is neglected and even banned in several countries in northern africa, and the catalan language and culture. i hope that the next meeting in barcelona will be an opportunity to achieve more visible and concrete results in a short time.
madam president, the euro-mediterranean process is ten years old and the first conclusion is that if it did not exist, it would have to be invented urgently, simply and simply because, as our rapporteur jäätteenmäki's report says, despite its shortcomings, it has been a success. it was impossible to imagine that the structural and historical problems of the mediterranean countries could be solved in a decade. but we've gotten down to business, and some of those problems are starting to be solved. i therefore believe that the objective of a free trade area by 2010 should be more than an end goal, it should be a milestone to continue, which should be complemented by many other things. the euro-mediterranean process must be deepened and reformed, the fundamental idea behind it must be underlined and, in this case, the potential achievements must be turned into a tangible reality. the international situation also tells us that the euro-mediterranean process is the best way to promote cooperation. other strategies, based on aggression and threat, do not work. however, the premium of going forward, which is at the basis of this euro-mediterranean process, is proving its usefulness. for example, i chaired the european parliament's delegation of observers to the parliamentary elections in lebanon, a euro-mediterranean partner; there were elections, with problems, it is true, but there were elections. and in other countries, too, democratic progress is being made, although unfortunately in others stagnation is prevailing. we are moving forward in democracy, human rights and equality. i certainly underline the goodness of your proposal. let us also consider the need for a euro-mediterranean area of freedom, security and justice, let us ensure that the free trade area is accompanied by the indispensable concept of economic, social and territorial cohesion, which is as valid for us as it is for our partners, and let us also promote political participation. the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly is an impressive success. we had the acp-eu assembly and this is the second institution we have created. that is why, madam president, i believe that the barcelona summit will be a positive one, because it will make it possible to build a euro-mediterranean citizenship in a process, the euro-mediterranean, which is the best concrete expression of the proposal for an alliance of civilizations.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and the european ombudsman for the work he is doing day by day and for his annual report. commissioner wallström, although your call for plan d to bring us closer to the european citizens, to open the doors of this institution and to encourage dialogue deserves our support, this does not exclude the right to complain to the ombudsman, since it is he who offers citizens an independent analysis in the event that they wish to lodge a complaint about bad governance or misconduct by the european institutions. one of the conclusions drawn from the french and dutch referendums is that citizens do not want to be seen as mere passive spectators, but as dynamic actors in the process of european integration, who want more transparency and more ways to participate. i think the ombudsman does a very good job. but i would like to mention some of the problems we have had, one in particular: i would like to express my concern and disapproval of the way in which the conference of presidents has dealt with the recent and very important special report by mr diamandouros. this report contains a matter of great relevance to citizens: the european anti-fraud office (olaf) allegedly failed to cooperate fully with the ombudsman when he was investigating a complaint against the office. the committee on petitions, 'the appropriate committee', therefore decided to draw up a report and to hear both the ombudsman and the director of olaf. i must express my surprise and amazement at the way in which the top leaders of the two major political groups blocked the report and did not allow this hearing to take place. and what is even worse, the conference of presidents, at the insistence of the two main groups, prohibited the committee on petitions from hearing the ombudsman and the director of olaf, which, in my view, is not authorized by parliament's rules of procedure. i believe that the reasons given - that we were involved in the process of choosing a new director of olaf - were not acceptable and that this house should look into this matter, because this does not help the path of transparency or the citizens to find an answer to their complaints. in my view, these actions have a collateral damage: the weakening of the ombudsman's role, which is totally irresponsible. in response to this, i have tabled, in agreement with the rapporteur, mr mavrommatis, a number of amendments to his report, so that parliament can respond to the ombudsman whenever he addresses us with a special report. as the amendments tabled were supported by my colleagues in the committee on petitions, they now form part of the report to be submitted to the house. it is obviously for parliament to decide whether or not it agrees with the ombudsman's recommendations. what is unacceptable is that no position is taken, damaging and weakening the crucial, important role of the european ombudsman.
thank you very much, mr. swoboda. we take good note of your request.
before we begin the voting, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to put a specific matter to the house's consideration: at its meeting yesterday, the conference of presidents decided to propose that, exceptionally, the debate on human rights in western sahara should not be closed with a vote on a motion for a resolution, so as not to prejudice the visit to this region by the ad hoc delegation from 11 to 15 january next year. in accordance with our rules of procedure, i must refer this exceptional decision of the conference of presidents to the house and i give the floor to speak for and against this proposal.
the vote will take place today.
if we understand correctly, you want amendment no 231 to be put to the vote first and then amendment no 779.
is there any opposition from the political groups?
mr president, we prefer to stick to the principles of procedure. the original distribution of the voting list is therefore preferable.
then we proceed as planned. - before the vote on amendment no 446:
is there any opposition?
mr president, we are back to the same thing, we prefer the order of voting established in the procedure. we don't understand these last-minute changes. (applause) i would like to thank
you're absolutely right. we'll proceed as planned - before the vote on amendment no 292:
having noted this, we shall now vote on amendment no 292. - before the vote on amendments nos 473 and 475:
mr president, there is a problem: we have no translator on this line, and we have no microphone service either. it's the whole line.
i'll have the technical services come in and fix that technical problem.
it was a technical problem, outside the control of the house and mr dombrovskis was kind enough to cooperate with his colleagues.
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
i would like to begin by expressing my regret at the incomprehensible attempt we have made in the last few hours to prevent this house from taking a decision on such an important issue as human rights in western sahara. if this initiative had succeeded in preventing the present pronouncement, it would have set a clearly worrying precedent for future urgent debates and resolutions on other human rights issues. i therefore welcome the return of sanity and i am pleased that we are not only debating but also - i hope - adopting an important resolution today. a resolution which is also urgent, precisely for some of the reasons already mentioned by my colleague karin scheele and which i wish to stress, because i believe that we must take this opportunity to call on the moroccan side to play an important role in the process of resolving this conflict. at the moment, several people are in moroccan prisons in completely unacceptable conditions, a fact which has been pointed out, criticised and denounced in reports by amnesty international and the world organisation against torture. in addition, in august, the polisario front released many political prisoners, including hundreds of moroccan prisoners of war. this was the right moment for morocco to demonstrate its goodwill in relation to the management of this conflict by making a positive gesture, releasing prisoners and reporting on the treatment of prisoners in moroccan prisons. and it hasn't been done like that. that is why this house - the european parliament - had to speak out, that is why this resolution is important and why it is urgent to speak out loud and clearly, precisely in the interests of improving relations between the european union and morocco, in order to be able to resolve - insistently - not only the specific problem of the people who are being detained, but also, once and for all, the conflict in western sahara.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i will put the above views into perspective, including those of my good friends with whom i share many things of all kinds: values, ideas and objectives. my long political experience, especially in foreign policy, tells me that sometimes it is not the one who shouts the loudest, or makes the most forceful resolutions, who gets the best results. when making a determination, many factors must be considered. we are discussing a procedural matter, but no one has said that what we are going to see from the outside is the hypocrisy of voting in a parliament: 600 members say there must be a debate - and i voted for it, and here i am - but then it turns out that there are only 20 of us in the debate, and there will be 70 in the vote. does that really have value, or do we just believe ourselves to be the importance of these debates on thursday afternoons? we have to be a little bit more realistic and take all these factors into account. i agree with the joint resolution and with the aim of supporting the saharawi people in their demands and, above all, in their demand for self-determination - still not achieved after thirty years - but also that this issue must always be balanced against the problem of security and stability that we have on the southern border of the european union, and that we must take into account the factor of morocco, a country of 30 million inhabitants, where the danger of an islamic invasion is latent. we must contribute, by our action or inaction, to political reform and a democratic process in that country.
mr president, a few months ago, in this very place, we discussed the need to provide humanitarian aid to the sahrawi people. we took the opportunity to remind them that this situation is the result of a political conflict which we have not been able to resolve so far. today we are talking about a serious and worrying situation concerning the violation of the human rights of the saharawi population: their rights to freedom of expression, demonstration and freedom of movement, which we have been able to observe in recent months both through human rights organizations and the media themselves. that is why we here today make a strong appeal to the moroccan authorities to release the saharawi political prisoners. we also consider the visit of this delegation from the european parliament to be of vital importance in order to obtain firsthand real information on the situation currently being experienced in the sahara territories. the conflict in the middle east is a conflict that needs decisive action by both the international bodies and the european union to put an end to three decades of injustice and suffering. the appointment by the united nations of the new representative for minurso is a good sign. the time has come to create the conditions for the settlement of this conflict and to recognize the legitimate aspiration of the saharawi people to determine their own future. ladies and gentlemen, today's debate cannot be just another debate, nor can today's resolution be just another of the many debates we have had on this subject. for human rights and social justice, we have an obligation to work in this direction.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 27 october 2005.
i would now like to make a statement at the opening of this plenary session on the attacks in amman. ladies and gentlemen, as you know, terrorism struck again on 9 november, this time in jordan, with all its horrors. on behalf of all of us - on behalf of the european parliament - i immediately conveyed to the jordanian authorities the emotion we felt at this attack and asked them to convey our condolences to the families of the victims. we will have the opportunity to discuss the phenomenon of terrorism and the most effective way of dealing with it during the next meetings to be held on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the barcelona declaration. terrorism is not just a european problem today. terrorist attacks also occur in casablanca and jordan. it is therefore a threat to both shores of the mediterranean and both shores must face it together. this will certainly be on the agenda and in the debates we will have in rabat on 20 and 21 november, at the extraordinary meeting of apem, and also in barcelona on 27 and 28 november, on the occasion of the summit of heads of state and government. but now i think we must make it very clear that for us these barbaric acts demonstrate how far it is not about attacking those of a different religion or a different colour of skin; this has nothing to do with the funeral strategy of terrorists. it is urgent that europe works together to advance the 'alliance of civilizations', which will enable us to avoid a 'clash of civilizations'. i therefore ask you to stand and observe a minute's silence in memory of the victims of the amman bombings. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the final draft agenda for this part-session and the november part-session has been distributed in accordance with the conference of presidents' decision of 10 november, pursuant to rules 130 and 131. wednesday: a small amendment has been tabled. the council has asked me to reverse the order of the two items scheduled for wednesday morning. the first is that we should have a debate on the situation in iraq, in the presence of lord bach, and then a joint debate on climate change. this change in order would allow mrs beckett, the minister responsible for this subject, to be present in the chamber. (parliament adopted the proposal)
we now come to the one-minute speaking time on matters of political importance.
thank you very much, mr. kuźmiuk. i will do so the first time i meet him.
thank you very much, mrs. stihler. i have sent two letters to the pakistani authorities on the issues raised in your speech.
thank you very much, mrs de keyser. we will do so as soon as we have studied the facts to which you refer.
thank you, mr matsakis, but you will agree that i will not send the flag to the turkish prime minister. you can do it yourself if you wish.
we're calling this session off.
the next item is the report by mr brejc, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the global dimension of globalisation (2005/2061 (ini)) (a6-0308/2005).
mr president, commissioner, i would like to emphasize in this debate what i consider to be important and has not yet emerged: the european commission must lead the research and development of new innovative services so that we can put europe in a position of technological leadership on a pan-european scale. that is why i think it is so important to set political objectives which clearly define the guarantees, so that we can have the widest possible penetration of the services we are talking about, but above all for the benefit of citizens, consumers and, of course, also economic development. that is why it is important to keep the analogue blackout date to 2012, so that europe does not fall behind, because our competitors have set dates much earlier: the united states, 2009, south korea, 2010, and japan, 2011. this requires that we coordinate our efforts so that countries really commit themselves. as you have rightly pointed out, spain, my country, has brought forward the date, as have some others, but we must all persevere in the same endeavour, because the longer the transitional period lasts, the more the television operators, the receiver industry, the manufacturing and marketing industry, the distribution sector and, above all, the citizens themselves will be harmed. finally, i would like to stress that, if conversion is to have a positive effect, it is very important that the commission and the member states focus on two things: firstly, closing the digital divide, which is very important in our society, and secondly, the absence of monopolies, because if there were any, this transformation would not be possible.
mr president, commissioner, all this information is too detailed and plausible, and you yourself confirm its plausibility, not to believe it. the commitment you have already shown here to investigate this situation is therefore commendable, but it does not reassure us. we expect the commission and the council to be firm and not to be satisfied with just fine words or political denials spoken at a cocktail party. we expect real action and real investigation. commissioner, the police on the island of mallorca are investigating, on the orders of the public prosecutor, the illegal transport of detainees; they have had a lot of trouble doing so, and yet all the police investigations are exactly in the same vein as the previous journalistic investigations. all this without any support from the united states. i ask you to demand equivalent investigations by all countries that can be presumed to be involved in this situation. i repeat, it is not enough to deny politicians with more or less equivocal words about the present, who say nothing about the past and who only want to avoid responsibility. we want real investigation and the commitment of a police and judicial investigation that guarantees with evidence that nothing in these allegations is true. it is a matter of great disgust to see that in an allied country for a long time. we are deeply disgusted to see this on european soil, to see the renunciation of centuries of civilization and moral progress in the fight against crime or, in this case, against terrorism. and, commissioner - and another speaker said this to you a moment ago - i think it is indeed true that countries must have a presumption of innocence. but having a presumption of innocence doesn't relieve you of your investigation. what is at stake is the very credibility of the european union as an area of freedom, security and justice. since that is your own responsibility, you cannot rely on the explanations given by others. you must take the appropriate measures and demand that the council does so as well.
mr president, we as europeans must clarify whether cia detention centres exist in europe, how many there are and where they are located, etc. as a citizen of the balearic islands i have a special interest in this. the end does not justify the means. we must defend our values. we may be fighting terrorism, but we cannot do so with arms that are not democratic. we understand why us organisations and institutions, including the cia, are being closely protected, especially in eastern europe, where so much hope for change has been pinned on the united states. however, not placing limits on the means we employ makes for a terrible contradiction, since democracy and transparency are fundamental to the maintenance of law and order and to democracy itself. human rights are applicable to all human beings, including terrorists and suspected terrorists. i therefore call on the commissioner to investigate this issue.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank you for this opportunity to share with you our current thinking on the new import regime for bananas. needless to say, we are very disappointed at the second arbitration award issued on 22 october 2005. the current import regime for bananas was agreed at doha in 2001. on this basis we obtained a waiver from our wto obligations for granting a preference to our acp partners. it was also agreed at the time that we would move to a tariff-only system not later than 1 january 2006. for this purpose we opened negotiations with our main trading partners for modifying the concessions in our schedule on bananas and went through arbitration as foreseen in the annex to the doha waiver. the relevant benchmark set out in the annex to the doha waiver is whether the rebinding of our tariff on bananas maintains market access for most-favoured-nation suppliers. following a first negative award on 1 august 2005, the arbitrator determined in a second award issued on 27 october that the european community had failed to rectify the matter with its proposal for a new most-favoured-nation tariff rate at eur 187 per tonne. this was a very disappointing result. our calculations were done in an objective and transparent manner and were supported by thorough economic and legal analysis. the aim has always been to ensure a neutral modification of the import regime with a most-favoured-nation tariff that provides equivalent market access conditions to let in american suppliers – as the current quota regime does – and keeps an equivalent level of acp preference. throughout this process we had consultations with our trading partners but there were no common positions from their side that could have been the basis for a negotiated solution. where does that leave us now? the arbitrator’s award does not indicate what could be an appropriate tariff level. in deciding on the import regime for bananas there are a number of considerations that need to be taken into account: most importantly, our responsibility to all the different stakeholders. we have considered the interests of community producers and the management of the common market organisation for bananas with a view to its future reform. we have our commitments towards the acp partners in the cotonou agreement to maintain their tariff preferences. in the light of all the above, we need to move to a tariff-only system from 1 january 2006 and we must move quickly as our operators need legal certainty. at the same time, i am fully aware of our responsibilities towards all stakeholders, which we take very seriously. the commission will therefore be making a proposal very shortly on the level of the tariff starting from 1 january 2006.
i have been the rapporteur for the committee on development on the successive reforms of the banana cmo and i have taken part in all the debates held, to mention only the last ones, on 13 april 2000, 13 december 2000 and 4 september 2003. before leaving office, commissioner lamy informed us on 21 april 2004 that he intended to propose a tariff of eur 230 per tonne of imported bananas. since then, since the new commission took office, you and your colleagues and the trade commissioner have been working hard to find an agreement. i would like to say, madam commissioner, that your statement tonight does not shed much light on the path you intend to take. it is clear that he must take the decision to apply a tariff from 1 january and we shall see how intense it is. but you know very well - the commission knows very well - that this decision guarantees a new dispute with the dollar-zone producing countries in the wto almost immediately, if that tariff exceeds their expectations. in other words, we will gain a few months of time at the cost of creating some risks for the acp group of countries and new uncertainties for our european producers. in the end, and provided that the forthcoming hong kong summit does not produce an unforeseeable outcome, the commission will have to seek a negotiated solution with the latin american banana-producing countries. the question i legitimately ask myself is why the commission specifically gave up the search for such an agreement during the last months of march, april and may, when it is plainly known that, through various diplomatic channels, latin american producers were seeking an agreement, even if it was of a transitional nature, to achieve a temporary extension of the existing system which would provide a margin for negotiating a more stable and lasting solution. commissioner, i think the commission paid no attention to those wishes because at the time it was confident that arbitration within the world trade organisation could be favourable to the establishment of the 230 euro tariff. that's where we got our first shot. he then proposed a new tariff of 187 euros, with the same result. you have confirmed here today that you are very disappointed with the outcome of the second arbitration on october 27. at that time, the statements of some officials, and of you, madam commissioner, showed the same perplexity and disappointment that you have confirmed today. then you said it was necessary to prevent the banana tree litigation from being included in the hong kong agenda. in my opinion, this is yet another mistake, commissioner. it was enough for a country like honduras, of which many good things can be said, except that it is an all-powerful giant, to ask for the contentious banana plant to be included in the agenda of the hong kong summit in order to achieve what the commission wanted to avoid at all costs. for your peace of mind, commissioner, you should know that in this last stage of the negotiations, with so many setbacks and bad news for our interests, you have not been alone. it has been accompanied by some national governments, such as my own, and the governments of some banana-producing regions. you have even had the understanding of some representatives of european banana producers, who seem resigned to waiting for a solution, which you mentioned in your speech, through a magic formula, such as the one they reached in the so-called 'madeira agreements', which, for now, is only music with the cadence of a portuguese fado, which as you know, commissioner, is more a song of nostalgia and sadness than of hope.
mr president, the 2001 agreement with the united states and the latin american countries, to which the commissioner referred earlier, and with which we thought we could end the banana war, now entails a radical change in the community's import regime from january 2006, a change which the european sector will have to face with a high degree of uncertainty. in 1993, the union decided to establish its own import regime and a common organization of the market for bananas, which is completely different from the common organization of the market for the rest of the fruit and vegetables sector. the union then gave the banana sector special treatment, almost favourable, which is even more justified today, because this fruit is grown only in the outermost regions of the european union. these 'remembered' regions, because of their insularity and remoteness, require special consideration, particularly if we are to maintain their agricultural activity. since my government, the spanish government, does not remember this, and the canary islands government does not seem to remember it either, i will tell you that bananas play a major economic and social role and the new import regime could jeopardise the survival of community production if the european union does not have sufficient funds in the future to compensate for a sharp fall in prices as a result of the possible introduction of a too low border tariff. the root of the problem is, in short, an accounting adjustment on which the future of the banana sector in the european union depends. the lower the duty, the greater the financial effort to compensate european producers will have to be. but there is a ceiling on this effort, and that ceiling should determine the european union's flexibility in yielding to international pressure in international negotiations as well. the union has already sacrificed a fairly large part of its agricultural production in the interests of opening up to international trade, a sacrifice which unfortunately always affects them, the producers, and benefits a few, in very few third countries. in the case of bananas, the big multinationals would be the beneficiaries, while the local producer would hardly feel the change.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for her report. i would remind you that at the moment banana production within the european union is a major production, that there are thousands of families in the european union living in the outermost regions who live off it and that if banana production were to disappear, we would leave some of the european islands to their fate, which, although they are very far away, are as european as this place from which i am speaking now. secondly, i think we have to bear in mind that the panels of the world trade organisation cannot choose arbitrarily. the principles of the world trade organisation charter require that we seek an equivalent tariff, and that equivalent tariff is not arbitrary; it must give us at least the same level of protection as we had before. i do not know to what extent the commission is considering this element. third, time is running out. january 1 is just around the corner and i very much fear that, by the trial and error procedure that the panels of the world trade organization are using, on january 1 we will have no tariff. is there any possibility of maintaining the current system at least for a transitional period? can the commission engage in any negotiations with third countries to suspend or interrupt negotiations with a view to reaching a reasonable solution? finally, i would like to make a comment on the comments made by my colleagues in the spanish people's party before me. until last year the pp was in the spanish government and until a few months ago, before its expulsion by the head of government, it was in the canary islands government. the question i wanted to ask is whether the ppe made any contribution up to that time other than what the present governments of spain and the canary islands are doing. in any case, madam commissioner, i hope you will defend the interests of these hundreds of thousands of european citizens who depend on you to maintain their standard of living.
member of the commission. mr president, when i look back in time i find that the issue of bananas has always stirred emotions. 1992 was the first time i really heard about this discussion, which has lasted for so many years. we have not yet actually finalised this issue. addressing some of the remarks made here today, firstly, it was a priority for me when we started these discussions immediately after i came into office last november to reach a negotiated conclusion on this issue. yet it soon turned out that even within the latin american countries there is no common agreement, so it was not possible to reach a negotiated conclusion on the issue in january. we tried over and over again to see whether it was possible. i will not go into details about the various big companies in the latin american countries that hold completely opposite views on how this is will end, but do not believe those who say that negotiation possibilities have not been explored. it is quite right that honduras has put bananas on the agenda for the hong kong ministerial conference. i can only say that we will do our utmost to ensure that this issue does not unduly disturb the whole process. to this end, we are counting on our approach being reasonable, on our continued preparedness to discuss with our partners and on the support of the acp countries. regarding sugar, which has also been mentioned, it is my intention to try to reach a political compromise in the council at the meeting before the hong kong meeting, so that this will not be an issue. as regards the timeframe and the different scenarios, there is currently a proposal on the table before the council for moving to a tariff-only system and this will be the basis for further discussions. at this stage i cannot go into details, because this is issue will be dealt with and negotiated with the council before i put all the figures and ideas on the table in parliament. of course our target is to get fair trade on this banana issue. the fact is that at the end of the day it is the consumers who decide what is going to be on the supermarket shelves, so those who have a huge interest in this issue should use any opportunity to encourage consumers to make their choice. as a number of speakers have mentioned, it is clear that we have to find a balance on this very delicate issue. in deciding on the import regime for bananas there are a number of considerations that need to be taken into account and, most importantly, as i said previously, our responsibility to all the different stakeholders. we also have to consider the interests of community producers and the management of the common market organisation for bananas with a view to the reform that we will hopefully achieve with the council during the second half of 2006. i can only assure those of you who have an interest in this difficult, long-lasting issue that we will do our utmost to arrive at a positive outcome so that the tariff-only system enters into force on 1 january 2006.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the 'reasons for the weak implementation by member states of the directive on the activities and supervision of occupational pension funds' by ieke van den burg and othmar karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0094/2005 - b6-0338/2005).
the debate is closed.
president of the court of auditors. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on behalf of the members of the european court of auditors, i thank you for inviting me to the debate on the court's 28th annual report for the financial year 2004, which i presented to the committee on budgetary control last night. i am pleased to be present, in my first year as president of the court, at the launch of the annual discharge procedure for the implementation of the eu budget. the annual report is based largely on audits of the accounts and of the legality and regularity of the accounts carried out by the court. the results of the court's audits of economic viability, on the other hand, are generally published in the form of special reports. the 2004 financial year was marked by the accession of 10 new member states, which increased the appropriations for payments from eur 98 billion in 2003 to eur 105 billion in 2004. thanks to better planning and management, the use of funds was considerably increased compared with previous years. at eur 2.7 billion, the 2004 surplus was much lower than in 2003, only about half as high. i would now like to comment on the main points made in the court's statement of assurance, also known as the das, starting with the statement of assurance on accounting reliability. for the financial year 2004, the court concluded that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the revenue and expenditure for that financial year and of the financial position at the end of the year, except for the item 'other debtors'. as in the past, the accounting system used for the preparation of the 2004 annual accounts is not suitable for a complete recording of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet. however, the commission has made significant progress towards the introduction of accurate accounting by the 2005 financial year. however, at the time of the examination, the court considered that further progress was needed as the figures needed to establish the opening balance sheets for 2005 had not yet been validated by the commission's authorising officers. if appropriate measures are not taken by the end of this year, the reliability of the 2005 accounts may be affected by the deficiencies identified by the court. as regards the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, the court of justice stated in its statement of assurance that: for the financial year 2004, the court concluded that the monitoring and control systems put in place were effective and that the underlying operations were legal and regular as regards revenue, commitments, administrative expenditure and the pre-accession strategy as part of the payment appropriations estimates. with regard to the other appropriations for payments for agricultural expenditure, structural operations, internal policies and external policies, the court is again not in a position to give a full statement of assurance. the monitoring and control systems have not yet been fully established, have not yet been effective and payments continue to be marked by significant errors. for the first time, the court can report that the efforts of the commission and the member states in implementing the integrated administration and control system (invekos) have had a positive impact, covering 59% of agricultural expenditure. invekos is a very effective tool, when used properly, to limit the risk of irregular expenditure to an acceptable level. i now wish to go into more detail on the specific assessments for each area of activity in the context of the declaration of assurance. in the case of revenue, the court found that the revenue operations were lawful and regular. however, systemic weaknesses have been identified in the gni own resources both at the commission and at the member state level. as in previous years, the court has again found evidence that, overall, expenditure under the common agricultural policy remains marked by significant errors. while the court found that the invekos works effectively when applied correctly, agricultural expenditure not covered by the invekos or not applied appropriately is at a higher risk of irregularities due to weaknesses in the control systems. in the field of structural measures, the court again found weaknesses in the management and control systems in the member states for all the programmes included in the sample. the court found weaknesses in the member states' controls, such as the lack of implementation or documentation of controls, the lack of verification of eligibility criteria or the lack of evidence of the provision of the co-financed services. the declarations of expenditure of the member states, on the basis of which the commission makes payments, are subject to a high rate of error. the court examined a sample of 167 projects and identified a wide range of problems. this included a large number of cases where ineligible expenditure was reported. in the case of internal policy areas managed directly by the commission, the court found that, despite progress in some areas, the monitoring and control systems did not function adequately and that there was a high error rate in the underlying processes. a common cause of error is complicated regulations. in this case, the risk of error is likely to remain high unless the legal framework is changed and procedures simplified. this situation, which is not a significant improvement on previous years, was mainly due to the fact that too high costs or ineligible costs were declared or to the lack of supporting documents, such as proof of the actual provision of paid services. in the case of external policy expenditure, the court noted that the systems had been improved and that there were few errors in the underlying processes at delegation level. however, weaknesses in internal control systems and a relatively high error rate were again identified at the level of the organisations responsible for implementing the project. the court's overall judgment on the pre-emption strategy was positive, as the underlying transactions were essentially lawful and regular. the monitoring and control systems at the level of the commission's central services, delegations and certifying bodies are generally reliable and function well in practice. however, at national level, the court identified weaknesses in the systems of implementing bodies in bulgaria, romania, turkey and other sapard countries. in the area of administrative expenditure, the underlying transactions were substantially legal and regular and the monitoring and control systems functioned generally adequately. what are the main conclusions to be drawn from this? the court found that the majority of the estimates of payment appropriations were again marked by substantial errors of legality and regularity at the level of the underlying transactions. this is due to inherent risk-bearing operations and the fact that the monitoring and control systems are not sufficiently effective in limiting the risk of irregularities to an acceptable level. however, improvements were noted in the systems, in particular invekos, the main monitoring and control system for agricultural expenditure implemented by the member states. this is also the case at commission level, where the reform process of the administrative and financial system launched in 2000 has produced good results. however, much remains to be done, particularly at member state level. the legislation, rules and procedures for spending are still often too complicated. a large proportion of expenditure is inherently risky and is based solely on declarations by the beneficiaries. finally, the european union itself has grown considerably and changed considerably since the introduction of das in 1994. in these 11 years, annual expenditure on payments has risen from eur 60 billion to eur 100 billion, while the number of member states has increased from 12 to 25. the scope and complexity of management has therefore increased, involving an increasing number of authorities and organisations. the need for more effective monitoring and control systems is therefore increasing. in its opinion no 2/2004 on the single audit model, the court proposed the creation of a community internal control framework covering all levels of administration community institutions, member states and beneficiary countries . the court's opinion on the single audit model was a contribution to the political debate on improving the management and control of community funds. the commission took a step forward by adopting a so-called roadmap for the creation of an integrated internal control framework. this roadmap will provide the basis for extending the reform to all forms of management of funds, in particular at the level of shared management with the member states; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the court welcomes this initiative by the commission for a roadmap. as the eu's external auditor, the court will closely monitor progress and assess the impact of these changes on the financial management and control of eu finances over the next few years. in connection with another issue, namely the position of the court on future financing, management and control in the field of the common agricultural policy and structural measures, it should be noted that this position should be taken into account in the final formulation of this important legislation. the provisions on the retention of supporting documents provided for in the present draft regulation on structural operations would make it impossible for the court to examine some of the expenditure concerned. the court is aware of the need to continuously improve itself and make the best use of its resources in a constantly changing union. our aim is to promote the interests of the european union as effectively and efficiently as possible. it is sometimes argued that the court should not provide additional ammunition to those who have an interest in discrediting the union. however, i am firmly convinced that the interests of citizens are best represented by an objective and independent external audit body that makes clear and balanced statements based on objective facts. recent events the rejection of the draft constitution by voters in two referendums in two member states and the difficulties in reaching agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 are seen by some as a sign of a lack of trust in the european union and its institutions among citizens. i am firmly convinced that the legitimacy of the union can only be guaranteed if our institutions function smoothly and if management is of high quality, both at the political and executive levels. the member states also have to live up to their responsibilities for the management and control of a large part of the eu budget. the european court of auditors has a key role to play in this: it must provide an independent, professional and objective picture of financial management and help shape change in the interests of citizens. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the president of the court, mr weber, for the fair presentation of the 2004 annual report and the members of the parliament for giving me the opportunity to give the commission’s first reaction. the court’s report is fair and balanced: it says that the commission is having success in implementing tangible improvements in its management systems, but that many areas still need to be improved. the commission welcomes the court’s positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts, which faithfully reflect the revenue and expenditure of the communities for the year and their financial position at the year end. the court has only one reservation, which has been resolved through the introduction of the accrual-based accounting system in 2005. this means that the accounts met their primary objective and that the accounts have been drawn up according to the provisions of the financial regulation in force. the court gives a positive assurance on the accounts, on revenue, on commitments, on pre-accession aid, and on administrative expenditure. it is also satisfied with edf development aid, some eur 2.4 billion outside the budget. the court also notes two key improvements since last year: in a large part of the common agricultural policy and in aid to candidate countries to the eu. the system used to check much expenditure under the common agricultural policy – the integrated administration and control system (iacs) – is considered an effective control system in limiting the risk of irregular expenditure, when properly applied. this system will be applied to an even greater percentage of agricultural expenditure in the coming years. so simplifying greatly, in addition to the several positive assurances i have already mentioned, the court is now reasonably satisfied with the systems of control and spending in an increasing part of the eu budget, roughly estimated to represent one third of the budget. this is tangible and quantifiable progress towards a positive statement of assurance. the conclusions of the court have not always been fully understood by the general public and the media. i liked very much the remark in the president of the court’s speech that makes it clear that the court’s qualified opinion on certain areas cannot be interpreted as meaning all transactions of the 2004 payment budget are affected by error, nor can it be interpreted as an indicator of fraud. we must all understand the comprehensive nature of this large budget discharge exercise. this procedure shows that the commission is accountable to directly elected members of parliament. this may be the eleventh consecutive non-positive statement of assurance, but i hope it is clear from my initial remarks this does not imply that we are not making progress. members of parliament have pointed out repeatedly that the commission alone cannot ‘produce’ a positive das. the 2003 discharge resolution gave very valuable guidance on how to further improve, and we are working to do that. as you know, this commission has proposed a ‘roadmap to an integrated internal control framework’, looking for support in parliament and council. while i am very grateful for parliament’s support on the roadmap, the ecofin council’s statement of 8 november was not as radical as the commission had hoped it would be; political declarations at national level were not accepted. but a cascade of operational management declarations by payment and similar agencies is not an impossible goal, though a national synthesis report for each sector, similar to that which the commission draws up on the basis of the annual activity reports of its directors-general, will be more difficult to achieve. we will go ahead with our proposals. our action plan towards an integrated internal control framework will be published next month. it is based on the results of the ‘gap assessment’ between the control framework in place for all types of budgetary expenditure and the general principles defined by the court in its opinion no 2/2004 on a single audit. we hope that the legislation being finalised for the new series of programmes in the years after 2006 will reflect the new thinking. the proposed revisions to the financial regulation and the implementing rules also reflect this thinking. court sampling reveals substantial errors that we are of course concerned to reduce to a minimum. to do so, we are focusing and seeking assurance on the procedures for managing the risk of irregularity. this is the way to ensure, within a limited resource base, that the costs of extra controls provide added benefits in terms of reducing risks of error. i would especially mention here two quotations from the speech made by the president of the court: ‘in structural matters, the court found weaknesses in the management and control systems in the member states across all programmes’; and the second quotation: ‘in the area of internal policies the court notes that the errors often stem from complicated rules’. certainly i agree with these remarks. need for simplification of rules was repeated yesterday at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control but, if i look for the individuals who are responsible for the large number and complexity of the programmes and rules, i find hardly anyone. everybody talks about the need for simplification but, when business goes into detail, it is not so simple any more. a large part of the complexity often comes not from the officials but from clients, policy makers, politicians in member states and members of the european parliament. the changes are often resisted by the same players. i use this opportunity to call on all policy makers, when the creation of another goal, plan and programme is under consideration, to look critically at aspects of fiscal management and the need to control and audit these programmes. there is a lot more to be said, but the budget discharge process is now only at the beginning and within the coming months members of parliament will have all the answers to their questions. parliament and the commission will work together to finalise the process of discharge of the 2004 european budget.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, we are witnessing for the eleventh time a declaration of unreliability of our accounts. i don't know if i can call this outrageous; it's the usual. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he's getting better, but not good enough. what is the political consequence of this declaration of no reliability? well, for inside our house, for the officials who have to make decisions, a great demotivation. it is a vain effort to try to follow the rules, because you never get a positive statement. there is an absence of willingness to take responsibility and the temptation of all officials is not to spend, lest there be any doubt and they have some problem. so, inner demotivation is what it is. and outside? a great discredit. what will the european citizens think if our court of auditors, for the eleventh time, says that the accounts here are not being managed properly! it was a scandal. more of the same. that's too bad. it turns out that parliament changes, the commission changes, the composition of the council changes and we remain the same. we can even remember the santer commission, which had to resign because of these problems: it is all the same, everything is still as bad as it was. what about the member states? where is the british presidency? the council spends 80%. where is the british presidency? it is not there: that is scandalous, because the council spends 4 out of every 5 euros and is not even present here at the presentation of the accounts. this is outrageous. the member states are happy. as long as their national courts approve their accounts, they have no say in whether the common house, the money of all europeans, is well or badly managed. there may even be some states that have a little joy and say 'my money is going to the farmers', even though it does not exactly meet the requirements that the court of auditors asks of me. they're having a big party. they're not even present. mr president of the court of auditors, as you know, in the previous discharge this european parliament asked for national declarations of conformity from the finance ministers. the aim was to help the court to publish a positive statement of reliability. the ecofin meeting of 8 november, as commissioner kallas has rightly said, rejected such national declarations. i would ask you, mr president of the court of auditors, what you think about the usefulness of these declarations in your work, about your relations with the national authorities and about the future without such declarations. finally, mr president of the court of auditors, it is not helpful for you to say that in a class of 25 members the average is a suspension. tell us - and this will help you - which are the three best and which are the three worst member states.
the commission's statement on the legislative and work programme for 2006 is on the agenda.
i think mr wojciechowski wishes to speak on personal grounds.
thank you, mr wojciechowski, you have made use of rule 122 and your remarks will be recorded in the minutes.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by guido sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals and chemical preparations (reach), establishing the european chemicals agency and amending directive 1999/45/ec and regulation (ec) no .../... [on persistent organic pollutants] (com (2003) 0644 - c5-0530/2003 - 2003/0256 (cod)) (a6-0020/2005) and - the report by guido sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 67/548/eec adapting to council regulation (ec) no .../... on the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals and chemical preparations (com (2003) 0644 - c5-0530/2003 - 2003/0256 (cod)) (com (2003) 06285 - c0535/05) and com (2003) 06255 (cod))
you have expressed your concern, but the presidency cannot take it as a point of order. the order is established, it is the rapporteur's turn, who has said what he thought was appropriate, and now the representatives of the committees concerned will speak. the order of the debate will not be altered by your warning.
opinion of the committee on petitions mr president, the committee on petitions received the signatures of one million british women. lord bach, a million british women wrote to parliament concerned about the impact of chemicals on their bodies and on their lives. the european trade unions have called for a strong reach, as have several million european health and medical workers. you said that this regulation may be our only chance. let's not blow it. i am afraid, however, that we are going to spoil it, because there have been indecent pressures, shameful positions, which have turned the backs of millions and millions of europeans who expect from this parliament, from these institutions, measures which will have a positive impact on their daily lives. it is not possible, as has been said here, to apply a system of risk assessment of substances, as the compromise proposal suggests, when, according to this compromise, we will never know anything about more than 90% of substances. i never will. with all the waivers, with all the traps, with all the opt-outs, we'll never have information. this compromise only benefits ignorance and darkness. please, let's get out of toxic ignorance once and for all. today, this week, we have the opportunity to do so. we can't blow it.
mr president, the european parliament will vote on the reach regulation the day after tomorrow, after two long years of legislative procedure. from the moment we got down to business, until today, all the members involved have devoted an impressive number of hours to achieving a result which, with the greatest possible consensus within this house and with other institutions, adequately protects consumer health and improves the quality of the environment, all without harming the competitiveness of our industry. i must admit that initially such a result seemed rather difficult to achieve, but i am pleased to see that, within hours of the vote, the major political groups are maintaining relatively close positions. the commitment on registration, signed by the socialist group, our group and the liberals, shows that the european parliament is able to rise to the occasion and make responsible decisions with regard to our citizens and our industry. because, in the end, that is what it is all about: to convey a message of confidence to the citizens, to let them know that their well-being is a priority for the union's institutions. it is also our job to legislate to promote the competitiveness of our industry, as we committed ourselves to in lisbon and reiterated a few months ago. mr president, many of the colleagues here, representing various political groups, have jointly tabled amendments which we consider essential to make reach an example of how european legislation can be both coherent, responsible for the health of citizens and promoting innovation and competitiveness. i hope that a large majority of this house will support them.
mr president, i would like to thank the enormous effort made not only by mr sacconi, the coordinators and the rapporteurs, but also by the whole technical team and the officials, to be able to reach agreement on such a complex document. this is a sign that policy is working and that parliament is working when it is a matter of really important work. we are faced with a complex document, not only because it covers a great many policies, but also because - and that is what i am going to defend here - it is an open document. i think that the issue is being treated as if the whole chemicals policy ended with reach; however, if chemicals policy is to serve the health and welfare of citizens, it must be complementary to other policies of the union and other policies of the countries and, therefore, we cannot believe that the world is going to sink or be saved only with reach. and i think it will be the ideal instrument for making consensus policies. what are the advantages of reach? in my view, it has created the basis for a common european chemicals policy and has conquered the territory for coordination and common policy. secondly, it has created an agency with authority, competence, responsibility and the capacity to coordinate, which i believe is an extraordinary achievement for the citizens. thirdly, the whole basis of reach is the recognition of science and the value of science and research, which guarantees objectivity for the future and also opens the door to information for citizens and businesses. i think that is another point to be congratulated on. on the other hand - and i want to end with this - i think it is absurd to believe that the responsibility for health policy should fall entirely on the shoulders of companies; companies are being blamed for everything that happens in the world of health and chemicals. i think that in this case the companies are given greater responsibility than before and are obliged to carry out studies, but health policy on new chemicals can only be carried out if we combine good research by the states with good health research and if, precisely, the agency appears, with a group of experts, as the recipient of this information which must be transmitted to the industries.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr guido sacconi for the work he has done in dealing with this very complicated dossier. i think parliament has done a good job, because the reach regulation is important. you could say that for many it is bad that there is a chemical industry, but, if you look, in those countries where there is no chemical industry, the average life expectancy is, roughly, half or a third of that of the developed countries. i therefore believe that we should put forward legislation which, on the one hand, guarantees the quality of life and the quality of products, but which, at the same time, makes it possible for this chemical industry on which we live and on which pharmaceutical progress depends to continue to operate. i think it is a matter of balance and guido sacconi and the rapporteurs of the various committees have examined the various elements and i think that next thursday we will be in a position, here in this parliament, to vote on a text which has the approval of all the sectors of parliament.
member of the commission. the issue of taxes on air traffic has been much debated lately, but it has been among the instruments considered in the search for new sources of funding for official aid to developing countries, in line with the un millennium development goals. the honourable member is no doubt aware that the council has been actively considering the issue and that the commission has produced several staff working papers on the technical aspects at the request of the council. two types of tax instruments have been considered: the taxation of aviation fuel and a levy on airline tickets, also known as a departure tax. from the internal market point of view, the legal setting is not the same for those two types of taxes. taxes on aviation fuel are covered by community legislation in the form of the energy tax directive, 2003/96/ec. although aviation fuel is, in principle, exempt from taxes, the member states may choose to tax fuel for domestic flights. they may also tax fuel for flights between member states, provided they agree bilaterally to do so. however, in practice there is no scope to tax fuel used by third-country carriers operating in the ec. as regards a levy on airline tickets, there are no specific community provisions. member states are therefore free to apply such levies on the obvious condition that they comply with their commitments under the ec treaty. the honourable member has asked whether the commission is considering ways to prevent such taxes on air travel becoming obstacles to the internal market. i would first like to stress that the fact that a product or service is taxed does not mean that its free movement is obstructed. there is an obstacle to the internal market only if a tax is heavier on transactions between member states than on similar transactions within a member state. the commission will make full use of its powers to enforce the treaty against any discriminatory taxes on air travel, as it does for all other taxes. however, i understand that the discussions between member states at this stage focus mainly on airline ticket levies. in this respect i must stress that, in the absence of community rules, this is first and foremost a matter for the member states themselves, acting within their fiscal sovereignty. nevertheless, the commission has argued in its staff working papers that there are good reasons to prefer a common approach to ticket levies. the commission has also declared that it is willing to work on the technical aspects with the member states that intend to pursue this option. that would help to ensure compatibility with treaty obligations. i should like to point out that the commission is continuously monitoring the functioning of the internal market. taxes of the kind mentioned in the honourable member’s question are still rare. should the commission identify a structural problem linked to the taxation of air travel, be it fuel taxes or ticket levies, it could ultimately make use of its right to propose appropriate legislation.
mr mandelson, taking advantage of your presence here, and considering that you are responsible for the external sphere of the european union, are you aware that the third world countries, which depend largely on tourism to get ahead, and which are also one of the few countries whose activities are affected by a tax on air tickets, would be the most affected by globalisation? and secondly, a tax on air tickets or on aviation fuel would be detrimental to those states which have an island or peninsular structure. the tax is designed exclusively from a continental perspective and would in fact constitute a real restriction on traffic between the continental regions of the european union and the island regions and countries, especially those which are more remote or more remote from the centre of the european union. i hope you can convey to commissioner kovács the concern of this member.
member of the commission. in response to your first question concerning tourism, increased taxation of air travel could in theory lead to a reduction in air travel demand. however, the increase in the price of the air ticket must be viewed in the context of the overall cost of a travel package – i.e. travel, accommodation and leisure spending – of which it is usually a minor part. the possible impact on tourism should also be set against the overall trend of a very strong growth in tourism demand. there are therefore good reasons for thinking that the overall impact on tourism will be moderate. in answer to your second question about remote and peripheral regions, the increased cost of air travel may have a greater impact on regions that are highly dependent on air transportation. however, as air ticket taxes are primarily a matter for member states, those who choose to apply such taxes will have latitude to design their taxes so as to provide correctives to take into account the special circumstances of remote regions and the social needs of their inhabitants. the commission has stated that it is prepared to work with member states, as i have already said, on the technical aspects of airline tickets. this could include looking at various correctives for remote and peripheral regions within the framework of community rules.
commissioner, i agree that the member states should take measures to strengthen development policy in those countries which, precisely because they do not offer opportunities to their citizens, are sending more and more immigrants to us, causing us serious problems in the european union. i would like to ask you in this connection whether the commission has sufficiently analysed other alternatives for the same purpose, for example the proposal made by the economist mr tobin, who proposed the creation of a financial transaction tax, which would not affect tourism.
mr president, i too would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur on her tireless work and the excellent result. thank you, mrs. de veyrac. i think this text is a very good example of interinstitutional cooperation. the commission must also be congratulated - the commissioner has taken a special and personal interest in this text and i believe that this has also borne fruit - parliament, of course, and also the council presidency and the council as a whole. i therefore believe that this example of interinstitutional cooperation has meant that, in record time, we have obtained a text with guarantees of rapid and efficient operation and with guarantees of viability. the text also reinforces the community method, providing sufficient subsidiary flexibility so that the most urgent cases can be dealt with with close to the citizen, but within a rigorous framework of community guarantees. it is a text which strikes the right balance between commercial interests and the rights of companies and guarantees for their defence, without prejudice to the traveller's right to timely information, full transparency and the defence of his right to safety, and which even encourages the use of the internet as a positive element. i also believe that this safety is the essential guarantee for a sector such as aviation, in which the european union is reaching historic and future milestones which precisely require maximum safety and, therefore, also dissuasive sanctions, such as those proposed in the text, firm prohibitions based on technical and objective rigour. we are therefore pleased that the way is open to a significant strengthening of the european aviation safety agency and we are still concerned about the development of solutions to the problems of guarantees for staff, particularly for pilots, to identify risk problems, guarantees for their training, to avoid tragedies such as the one avoided in toronto, and the guarantee that inspections are sufficient and of proven effectiveness. i think we've learned the lesson that so many victims have taught us this summer.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is an opportunity to change our habits and customs, it is an opportunity to reduce emissions and achieve cleaner air, it is an opportunity for the development of renewable and alternative energies and, also, it is an opportunity for europe to consider its dependence on fossil fuels, often in territories with great political instability and subject to strong price changes. i therefore believe that it also opens the door to the possibility of reviewing and considering nuclear energy as one of the many solutions, along with other alternatives. we still have a long way to go in research and understanding of the causes of climate change. for example, very little research has been done on the relationship between agriculture and climate change. there is recent research that has turned on a red light and opened up another path; we are blaming the industry alone for the problem. i think we would have to do smart agriculture and oriented towards those strategies; that would be scientifically much safer. on the other hand, i think that the issue of quotas, the mathematical models for setting quotas, must also be improved; there are still many countries which are doing it in a bad way, while others have come up with good solutions, such as the british. i also believe that we need to look at strategies to compensate for climate change and to determine how much we can mitigate it. i believe that the policy on drought and desertification in the mediterranean must be reviewed and that the suffering and deterioration caused to the ecological system and even to our animal resources and wildlife must be addressed.
mr president, the quaestors are aware of what has happened and will report to the president on this, on the basis of which we will take the appropriate decisions.
the next item is the debate on the report by the european council and the commission statement on the informal meeting of the european council at hampton court, to which, as you know, parliament was invited by its president. i thank the british presidency for its deference to parliament.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, it is a very great honour to address this parliament again – a very high-quality group of parliamentarians are here i know. in all parliaments sometimes you speak to a very large number and sometimes you do not. i take this as full support for all the policies which have been followed both by the uk presidency and by the united kingdom on aspects like the budget, which i shall come to in a moment. this is the 48th time that a british government minister has appeared before parliament since the beginning of the uk’s presidency of the european union and, with six weeks to go, i am happy to tell you there are still many more ministers on the way. that is an indication of the seriousness with which we take parliament. today, i want to report back on the informal summit at hampton court. much of this is now familiar to you, but what was achieved three weeks ago was important. at the beginning of the summer, the people of europe gave a clear signal that they were unhappy with the way in which europe was heading. they felt detached from european politics and politicians. at hampton court, europe’s leaders took a significant step towards providing a response to that concern by reaching broad agreement on a direction for europe’s economic and social policy. much of the leg-work had, of course, already been done by the european commission and published in its excellent paper ‘european values in the globalised world’. if i may say to president barroso, i thought that paper was one of the best and most insightful papers that i have read on the future of europe and its nations in the last three years. with 20 million people unemployed across europe and youth employment running at 18%, the main task for all of us who believe in the social model for europe is to get europe back to work and to give our citizens the tools to compete in the global market. the hampton court summit identified six key areas, backed up by a range of specific policies, in which the joint efforts of member states and of the commission can bolster europe’s economic prosperity and collective security. first, there is research and development. we need a strong technological foundation if european companies are to stay ahead of the competition, particularly that posed by the asian economies. second, there is investment in our universities. we are lagging behind the united states and, in some key respects, china and india as well. the third is facing up to demographic change within the european union. the eu currently has four people of working age for every elderly citizen, but over the coming decades this will fall from a ratio of four to one to just two to one. at the informal summit eu leaders therefore agreed that we had to examine in much more detail the relationship between legal migration and the eu’s future economic needs. the fourth concern was energy. how do we handle soaring global energy demand while supply remains tight? the summit recognised that the solution requires action on a number of tracks. we have to diversify our sources of energy and approach our current major energy suppliers in a more coherent manner. we have to use our market capacity and power as users with those who are the suppliers. we also have to pursue energy efficiency and clean technologies and develop within europe a much more genuinely open energy market. it is open in some countries, but not in all countries. i do not call that an open market. fifth is the european union’s work on global security. on data retention this parliament has an opportunity to join in the eu’s collective responsibility to shape legislation that will increase the security of our citizens and bring criminals to justice. there is a counter-terrorism strategy that will indicate how we deal with radicalisation, how we protect our infrastructure and how we ensure better exchange of information. we also have to combat illegal immigration and strengthen our borders, whilst ensuring that we harness the benefits of legal migration for the eu and for developing countries. finally, the summit agreed that javier solana, working with the presidency, should take forward work on common foreign and security policy aspects of defence and security. there are specific proposals for research and training in this area to fill gaps in our capability. we also have to improve crisis management structures to respond to disasters and look to increase funding for cfsp. in december, by the way, we will be publishing a comprehensive strategy for africa. in all areas there will be interim reports to the december european council and final reports during the austrian presidency in the first half of next year. i am confident that in drawing up these reports the commission will give full consideration to the views of the relevant parliamentary committees. this, in some detail, is what was discussed at hampton court. however, now that we have broad agreement on the direction of a modern europe, we have to get the right budget deal to deliver these economic and social priorities. the presidency is committed to working for a budget deal in december. but we all know that it is going to be extremely difficult to reach one. in june, five member states rejected the proposed budget; next month we will need all 25 to agree. so we have some hard negotiating ahead of us. with that in mind, we aim to table comprehensive proposals in early december for discussion at a conclave of foreign ministers. changes will be needed in three main areas. first, we have to chart a new direction for the european union budget to ensure that it can respond to the challenges of the 21st century. that requires establishing a clear timetable for a review covering all aspects of revenue and expenditure, a hard look at where the money comes from, how it is used and how we account for it. failure to sign off the european union’s accounts for the eleventh successive year – which is very poor – affects the climate of debate and of opinion about the whole of the european union in every single member state. so this new direction requires the laying-down of clear objectives for future union spending, for the accounting for that spending, without which there will not be taxpayer confidence in what this union is doing, and setting clear pathways for the future reform of the union’s policies. second, we have to amend the structure of spending from 1 january 2007 from that which was proposed in the last negotiating box in june, notably to take account of recent discussions by member states of the proposals by commission president barroso, which he made on 20 october. third, the consequences of any proposed changes to the own-resources decision – in other words to the amount which is paid by member states to the eu’s budget – must be seen to be fair and balanced in all member states. for that to happen, significant changes will be needed to the arrangements affecting the united kingdom – amongst other member states – from those that were proposed in june. i do not want anybody to be taken by surprise: when i talk about significant changes, i mean significant changes. without significant changes, i see little prospect of a deal. however, with them, i believe that we can take negotiations forward and we are committed, as the presidency, to trying to do a deal and we will make every effort to get there. so far, i have talked about europe’s response to the challenges of globalisation mainly in terms of what we will do – what policies we adopt and what budget we should agree. however, globalisation also poses a challenge to europe in terms not just of what we do but how we do things. as i have indicated, there is a growing gap between the politics of europe and the people of europe. it is exactly this question that will be the focus of a conference tomorrow in the hague, jointly hosted by the dutch and the british governments. the ‘sharing power in europe’ conference will look at how regional and national parliaments can work more effectively with european institutions, including the european parliament, and how we can get the right balance between action at the regional, national and european levels to deliver the best results for our citizens. i should like here to express great appreciation to jan peter balkenende, the prime minister of the netherlands, for first proposing that such a conference be held – he did so at the june european council – and to our colleague, bernard bot, the foreign minister of the netherlands, who has helped the british presidency to take this idea forward and to host the conference tomorrow. a part of all this effort has to be to bring europe closer to its citizens and to make european union legislation lighter and more relevant. as globalisation has made it more difficult for the people of europe to relate to its institutions, so too have those people, our citizens, become more critical about the nature of european union legislation. they are much more impatient of a dirigiste regime and more strident in their belief that methods of regulation cannot, and should not, be a proxy for outcome. too often – it is true of all parliaments and unions but it is particularly true of the european union – the method has been seen as the same as the outcome. this is not the case. businesses, non-governmental organisations and member states want new european rules, for example, to fight unfair competition, to protect the environment or to improve our legal systems. however, they want action that makes our lives better, not more complicated. standardisation and harmonisation do not add value by themselves. thanks to the efforts of the commission under president barroso, there are many positive signs now. for example, the commission has listened to what businesses and people want and has proposed a lighter regulatory touch in financial services. this will help promote a globally competitive european financial sector. the commission’s three-year action programme for simplifying the acquis is another very welcome step, as is the recognition that the european union does not always need to get involved in those areas where it used to get involved. hence the decision to get rid of a 1968 directive which regulated the number and the size of knots in wood. there may have been a reason 37 years ago for the european union to regulate the number and size of knots in wood. however, today we ought to leave that maybe to member states or just to the judgement of those people who buy wood from a timber dealer. why not? the proposal to see whether we can simplify the way in which employers have to give compliance reports on 20 separate directives on health and safety at work should lessen the burden on employers, giving them more time to focus on workers’ needs – maybe on creating jobs – than on paperwork. as a co-legislator, the european parliament has a critical role to play in all this. let us take reach – which was the subject of a little excitement outside as i came in and, i have heard, a little excitement in here. it is controversial how far you regulate the european chemical industry to protect the consumer. none of us wants to be poisoned by chemicals. nonetheless i believe that europe’s record on this is exemplary and second to none in the whole of the universe. equally, none of us want to see, in a globalised world in which barriers have come down, europe’s chemical industry brought to its knees so that the regulation, which is a very fine one, ends up regulating an industry that has disappeared, to be replaced by industries across the world in china, india and elsewhere, where the regulation is far less good than it is today. that is the dilemma facing parliament, as it faces all our peoples. we have to recognise the difficult cases. the proposed changes to the working time directive are a good example of well-meaning legislation that will not achieve what those changes are set out to do, and where method and outcome have become grievously confused. we are all agreed that european labour markets must embrace decent standards of protection for our workers. europeans must have rights at work, but they must also have jobs in which they can exercise those rights at work. my prime minister said recently that we hoped to resolve the outstanding issues on this directive during our presidency, and that remains our goal. let us be clear about the nature of the challenges we have to address. the working time directive is justified as being about health and safety, and in part, it is. but rigid limits on total hours worked are not the answer. the united kingdom has one of the best health and safety records in the whole of the european union. since you ask, we are second best in terms of days lost through injury and, i believe, third best in terms of deaths at work. we have shown by our record that a strong health and safety record judged by outcomes is entirely compatible with flexible labour markets and flexible working hours. rigid pan-european limits on working hours will not deliver health and safety for our workforce, particularly where the rules are unevenly applied. some european partners have rightly, i believe, expressed great concern that there are other member states in which working time limits are being applied per contract and not per worker. some of those countries are the same ones that say there have to be rigid limits; but when it comes to enforcement within their own countries, there is a dodge taking place and in the place of enforcement per worker – which has to be the basis for health and safety – it is per contract. therefore, if people have two contracts – two jobs, one person – then they can evade the limit, entirely unregulated and unprotected. it does not make sense from a health and safety point of view. it does not make sense from an employment practice perspective. it does not make sense in terms of the reputation of the european union of applying fair and sensible regulations across europe. we have to find ways to implement and enforce the directive which match the needs of all labour markets. we must ensure that all workers enjoy proper employment rights and that none are forced by the rigidities of this directive into a grey economy, for that is what is happening. the blunt truth about the directive is that in seeking to reset european limits and standards, we risk infringing individual workers’ freedom to work the hours they choose. we will undeniably restrict employers’ flexibility to adapt to changing businesses and seasonal demands and, in doing so, will threaten the very jobs on which workers’ livelihoods depend. that cannot be right. it is vital that workers feel safe and appropriately protected in the workplace. it is good business as much as it is good politics. we need to judge how much of this should be fixed at european level and how much we should trust national governments, employers and trade unions to agree on an approach that reflects labour traditions and good practice within individual member states and across europe. after all, the minimum wage, another aspect of labour regulation in which i happen to believe passionately, has always been left to member states. i believe that is quite right. now is the time to leave far more issues concerning working hours to member states as well. that seems to me to be an excellent example of an area where europe, in addressing the challenges of seeking to engage more closely with our citizens, must go forward with a lighter touch. when the united kingdom took over the presidency of the european union we also inherited the need to conduct a wide debate on the future of europe. the hampton court summit was a vital element of that debate. but the debate is far from finished. the process of constructing a modern, confident europe will be an even longer one. this is a journey which governments, politicians and parliaments, including this one, cannot take alone. we have to bring the benefits of europe to the people of europe and take the people with us. (applause)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr foreign minister, ladies and gentlemen, as mr jack straw has pointed out, we can be satisfied with the results of this informal summit. i should like to say that i am very pleased that the voice of the european parliament has been heard here, thanks to the participation of president borell in all the discussions. i can only congratulate prime minister blair on the way he has helped to create a positive atmosphere, a climate of trust. i am particularly proud of the role the commission has played in the success of this summit. our discussions in hampton court have led to a consensus around a fundamental idea and five key areas. the basic idea is this: to preserve our values, we need to modernize our policies. there is no contradiction between a project of economic reform to modernise europe and the commitment to a political europe, a social europe. the five key areas are, in short: first, a consensus on the analysis and nature of the challenges we face, which follows the contribution that the commission has presented and i thank you in this respect, mr minister, for your words on the quality of our document. secondly, the importance of putting into practice ambitious reforms to promote growth and employment. all member states have taken up this task and the commission will report on the national programmes developed to implement the lisbon conclusions at the very beginning of next year. thirdly, the deepening of practical work on the policy responses to be given to globalisation, to the ageing of our populations, covering specific areas such as research and development, universities, energy and demography, including the problem of immigration. fourthly, a new priority for immigration policy, covering both legal immigration, which is likely to meet the needs of our economy, the security of the borders that our citizens expect, and effective integration policies, which are indispensable in our multicultural societies. fifthly, new initiatives to examine how our external action can be strengthened to better respond to globalisation and new security threats that do not stop at national borders. we must now move forward with this work. i hope that we can do so in close cooperation with parliament and with the current and future council presidencies. to sustain the momentum for long-term growth and employment, the commission proposes to give new impetus to research and development and to present ways of reorganising europe's education systems and universities. we will report to the council and the european parliament on these matters before the spring european council. to find ways of better addressing the demographic challenge: as early as the beginning of next year we will present the results of the consultation which was launched at the beginning of the year with the publication of a green paper on demography. setting up a coherent energy policy: next year we will present a strategy for europe. all options must remain open. this new recognition of the need to work together in a field which, until very recently, was considered to be the exclusive domain of the member states is very important. the work on migration is already under way. several proposals have already been submitted to parliament and a document should be produced before the end of the year to provide a basis for further reflection and action on legal and illegal immigration. finally, security presents us with a double challenge. we must both work better together to tackle the crossborder crime we know in europe, but also give more determination to our commitment to fight international terrorism. here again, important commission proposals are on the table and a counter-terrorism strategy is being implemented. but we also need to do more to ensure that the european union plays its full part in the debate on how to respond to globalisation. that is why the commission will be presenting a reflection paper, a concept paper, examining how we, the european commission, can contribute with the council, with parliament, to strengthening the external coherence of the union. it is clear that we can do more to ensure the consistency of our foreign policy, not only in the common foreign and defence policy but also in the various instruments of internal policy which have an external dimension, and also in areas where the commission has a special role to play, such as development aid, international trade and neighbourhood policy. hampton court showed once again why the european union matters in a globalised world. never before has european integration been so much in question, but never before has it been so necessary. europe has the scale and the range of policies to maximise the benefits of globalisation for its citizens and to minimise the threats. it is european legislation which enables a terrorist suspect to be transferred from italy to london within 50 days. a process that once took years now takes weeks because we have an instrument at european level and because we have european legislation that enables us to do that. it is europe that can provide answers to the challenges of more expensive and scarcer energy. it is also europe which will help manage the border crossing in gaza, a very important recent development. it is europe which is leading the world in aid for africa. so there is a need for this european dimension. we agree and we have done a great deal to achieve this with better regulation on the need for sensible legislation to avoid bureaucratic measures. however, that does not mean a minimalist europe and i want to be totally clear about that. not at all. it means that europe should do less in some areas and should make the lives of our citizens and businesses easier. nevertheless, at the same time, there are areas where we have to do more, not less. it is very important to avoid the idea of a minimalist europe. it is the responsibility of all of us european leaders at council level, parliament level and commission level to explain this and to avoid the demagoguery and populism that is sometimes levelled against europe. because, in this globalised world, we need a strong europe more than ever. but all these policies from external relations, to security, to migration, to energy, to research, to universities need money; they cost money. when i was a child my mother told me never to talk about money because it's impolite. but now i have to talk about money. because without money, we cannot deliver on those policies, we need the resources to go ahead with our policies. distinguished members of the council, you cannot ask the commission and the other european institutions to deliver and not give them the means to deliver on those policies. the positive atmosphere, the signs of a stronger european political will that we saw at hampton court, must now be turned into action, turned into an agreement on the financial perspective next month. this is the defining issue of the british presidency; it is the test of whether europe is on the move, and we need europe on the move. in respect of prosperity, solidarity and security, all we can do is give our citizens the means to achieve them. i know the british presidency is working hard for a deal; the cost of failure would be high. it is hard to see how our positions will converge within a few months. so there is a real risk of no agreement next month, leading to delays in money coming on stream for the new member states, a risk that the community will not be able to deliver on crucial international commitments, including commitments for the poorest. without the financial perspective, how can the european union make medium-term commitments to global funds for hiv/aids? how can we respect the commitments we made at the united nations for the millennium development goals? how can we support the caribbean countries in adjusting to the changes in the european community banana regimes, for example? how can we keep our commitments to african peacekeeping? how can we go ahead with the so-called new policies, the policies for the future? indeed, if there is no agreement we will keep the policies of the past; we won't have the means for the policies for the future. i also think we all agree that an enlarged, more diverse european union needs more investment. i don't say the costs of enlargement because i don't like the word costs when we talk about enlargement. but now that we are a much bigger europe and we are a much more diverse europe we need more investment for those new members. we have to share the burden of this investment. we have a duty of solidarity to the new member states who look to the european union for support in their rapid and remarkable progress in modernisation and reform. this is a win-win situation for all member states. this is not a zero-sum game and it is precisely because we have to bridge this gap that i came up with some proposals, including a proposal now being taken into consideration by the british presidency i thank the british presidency for that linking cohesion and competitiveness. in our view, there is no contradiction between cohesion on the one hand and competitiveness on the other, quite the contrary. the cohesion and support for the new member states is also a way for them to improve their competitiveness and for europe as a whole to be more competitive. so i hope that those proposals will be taken into account in the final agreement so that in the end it will also be clear that what we are proposing is not money for an old concept of europe, it is money for a more competitive and more modern europe, but a europe that at the same time keeps its strong values in terms of cohesion. we need a fair sharing of this burden. no member state can do enlargement on the cheap. i trust in the common sense of the british presidency to deliver a fair and balanced agreement next month. i hope that we will achieve this by strengthening, and not reducing, the commission and parliament's ambition for an enlarged europe. because we have to say very frankly that the financial perspective represents an agreement between the council, the commission and parliament, and the position of parliament and the commission should be taken into account in the final agreement. hampton court was indeed a success. hampton court was the first very important step in a new consensus for a dynamic, modern europe. i hope that the positive spirit of dynamism and openness which everyone showed there can be turned into agreement on the budget now. i give my full support to the presidency in its efforts to achieve that and i wish the presidency and all the member states the very best. (applause) i would like to thank you.
thank you, mr barroso, the presidency would like to point out that the debate was on the european council at hampton court and is now moving towards a preliminary debate on the financial perspective. but the presidency will not tell the participants in the debate what they should be discussing. they can insist on the subject of the financial perspective if they wish, even if it is not specifically on the agenda.
thank you very much, mr goebbels. the debate is being encouraged, and this is a positive factor in getting a few more members to join in.
president-in-office of the council. i would start with the basic point, which is that, clearly, the level of funding is contingent upon the wider conversation about the future financing of the european union. we have had a long and useful debate in the course of the afternoon which, while apparently directed towards the hampton court informal heads of government meeting, in reality strayed into the issue of future financing. i would simply reiterate the points made by the foreign secretary when he was speaking here earlier this afternoon in saying that we are sincere in our endeavours in reaching a conclusion to those discussions on future financing in the course of the british presidency. however, the specific details of specific programmes are obviously contingent on the resolution of that matter.
president-in-office of the council. data concerning the effect on the international market of national measures to tax passenger air traffic are limited. were member states to adopt national measures for the taxation of passenger air traffic that were not compatible with the internal market, measures could be proposed by the commission and adopted by the council after consulting the european parliament and the economic and social committee under article 93 of the treaty establishing the european community. however, it remains the right of member states to set tax rates according to their own national circumstances.
thank you, mr president-in-office, for your reply. the question, however, is what impact the introduction of any kind of taxation on air passenger traffic will have on the internal market. you are an island, i am an island too; this measure, although it would not affect countries with a continental structure, would affect island regions, and especially those which are far away from the central core of the european union, very negatively. this is therefore a matter which probably merits consideration by the council, according to the commission.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is part of the democratic process and we should take that into account. as i said earlier, i have taken note of the position of the committee on the environment on the rejection of the commission's proposal and i have listened to all the different views expressed here tonight, views which may have in many cases started from different starting points but almost always ended up in the same conclusion. the proposal for a directive under discussion would fill a legal gap, since, apart from the 1991 council regulation, there is no other legislation on trapping standards at european union level, and at national level the existing legal framework is very limited. in any event, this proposal would add to the existing legislation of the member states and not remove: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected by the current crisis. however, in view of your concerns and in view of the council's position, i would like to inform you that the commission will be considering very carefully its next steps on this proposal, including of course the possibility of withdrawing it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank not only my colleagues but also the commissioner for being here, although i must regret the considerable absence of the council, which had promised to be here but which, due to a change of agenda at the last minute, had to apologize. i think that this problem is not the responsibility of the council but of the bureau and i regret that i do not have the opportunity at this moment to raise this debate with the council. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. however, the issue is important, fundamental, as is shown by the monitoring that many sectors of civil society are making of both arms control and its uncontrol. selling weapons is not like selling refrigerators, t-shirts or computers, it is a matter that has very serious repercussions on many levels and therefore the consequences of a massive and uncontrolled sale can be disastrous. let us remember an important fact: every minute, someone is killed by a firearm. in addition, the cost of such exports and purchases is at the expense of other investments which are often much more necessary for economic and social development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the export of these products is not subject to any restrictions. the data is clear. in 2003, international arms trade was worth between usd 34 000 and usd 43 000 million, and the main exporters were european countries such as the united kingdom, france, italy and germany, which accounted for 25% of total world exports. in the european case, therefore, we have a great responsibility. among the main importers, china and india are two of the countries that accept and buy this type of production the most. in europe we have a code of conduct adopted in 1998 which is - we have been saying this for a long time - insufficient. it's weak and it's not legally binding. that is why we put forward the proposal - which we have also included in this new review report - to make it legally binding in the report we discussed last year, and which i had the honour of also being the rapporteur for. in fact, the report adopted by the committee on foreign affairs a few weeks ago clearly specified the need to strengthen the code of conduct and to make it a legally binding text. in addition to the above, other important points are raised in this report, such as the fact that transfers of production capacity are subject to the code and that special monitoring mechanisms are established for cases where it has been decided to lift the arms embargo. let me make a point in this connection - in the specific case of china, let us remember that once again this house is in favour of not lifting the embargo under the present conditions. firstly, because there are not sufficient and reasonable conditions for this and, secondly, because to do so would send a clearly wrong message, not only to china but to the world in general, about how seriously we take this kind of embargo. the report also mentions aspects relating to arms brokering, the regulation of torture equipment, the impact of enlargement and also the role of the european union in relation to the united nations. the dutch presidency promised us, and we celebrated it, that there would be a revision of the code and a tightening of it, and converting it into a common position. we are at the end of 2005, two more presidencies have passed and we are still waiting. it must be admitted that the british presidency has put a lot of emphasis on the fact that this had to be completed and we hope that before the end of his term we can see it done, but for the moment we are waiting. finally, speaking of presidencies, i would like to conclude by expressing my regret that the austrian presidency has made no mention of small arms among its priorities. given the importance of this issue, not only in this house but in civil society in general, we believe that this is a very worrying omission and that it must be taken into account in the light of the need and commitment that the council and this house have reiterated in favour of an international arms treaty. i would stress that this report is a step forward and i hope we do not waste any more time on this subject, because there is no time to waste.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to take this new opportunity to refer specifically to the report by my colleague, mr kristovskis. i think that the issue of weapons of mass destruction really deserves special attention, especially because of something that has already been said: if we want to be credible in the international sphere, especially in this area, we have to start by setting an example in the european union. the report makes clear the need to emphasize the role of nuclear disarmament and to make the request for the non-proliferation treaty a success. i think that is a question which must be insisted upon more and more. but secondly, we must also remember another point: there are some nato countries, including the united kingdom and france, which, ignoring this fact, are starting what could be a new nuclear arms race. it is important to note that this is a risk that must be contained, and we must be consistent, at least in this respect. and finally, i would like to recall and, in any case, draw the attention of this house to a fact: the recent news that american troops have used white phosphorus on the streets of fallujah. if so, i think it is a clear breach of some key principles which must be respected and which this report requires to be taken into account.
mr president, i would like to start by joining mr matsakis in his protest. in the 20 years i have been in this parliament, i have never seen a member behave with such contempt for this institution and its members. i therefore ask that effective action be taken against this gentleman, so that an incident of this kind is not repeated. as mr von wogau has said, this is not a debate on arms; it is a wider debate, a debate on common foreign and security policy, although i shall only have occasion to refer to mr wuermeling's report on defence procurement. i think the commission is right to point out that article 296 of the ec treaty, which at the moment constitutes a constitutional obstacle to the development of a common 'we would say' defence market, can be overcome in some way by drawing on the case law of the court of justice in recent cases, such as the johnston case, or the commission v spain case, 1997. but the constitutional limitations still exist. in other words, in matters of foreign and defence policy, there remains a large degree of state sovereignty. we must therefore act with great prudence in this matter, both legally and politically. until the european constitution is adopted, which i hope will be soon, we will have to make do with the legal instruments we have, and with those legal instruments there is little that can be done, but i think it is very good that the commission is directing its work first towards a communication and eventually towards a proposal for a directive, as mr wuermeling suggests. but we must also be politically cautious, because the aim of a common european defence market cannot be to transform the european union into a military industrial complex, as is the case with some external powers. guns are dangerous. i have some military training; what surprised me was that, most of the time, i was not taught to kill, but, on the contrary, to protect myself from weapons. guns are not toys. we cannot use them, for example, for economic development or industrial development. the purpose of arms must be to protect the citizens of europe and, in any case, to protect those friendly, peaceful and democratic nations which need them for their own defence, but not to do business with them or to turn europe into a kind of big industrial centre which will eventually turn against us. i believe that the commission's proposals are positive, that these proposals will lead to the creation of this common defence market, but that this common defence market must be an instrument for the achievement of peace in europe and also peace in the world.
member of the commission. mr president, even though it is late i think it was a very interesting discussion. i agree that this discussion could have been much broader. we have spoken on rather specific topics, but some of you have said very clearly that there are many more dimensions, taking in a common foreign and security policy and a common security and defence policy. i shall now make a few specific remarks. firstly, on arms exports, the commission can only agree with the substance of the discussion today. we are probably already one of the regional actors with the strictest arms controls in the world, but progress has to continue, to strengthen the rules and their implementation. making the code of conduct a common position will be a major step at european union level. in fact the code of conduct on exports of military equipment that was adopted in 1998 contains many common criteria against which applications for export licences are assessed. as is stated in the code of conduct, the decision to transfer or deny a transfer is at the discretion of individual member states and the commission is therefore not in a position to comment on alleged circumventions of the code of conduct with regard to any country. i say that specifically regarding the question on colombia. one of the most important criteria is always the human rights question. it is one criterion among others, such as regional peace, security and stability, but it is for the member states to comment on that issue. a reinforced code of conduct which has already been finalised at technical level and which will be introduced at an appropriate moment will increase the scope of controls. the reinforced code of conduct will go beyond physical exports of goods and technology. it will include brokering and transfer of intangible technology, and it will also contain more explicit language on reverse engineering and on unintended technology transfer. moreover, the criterion on human rights will be further strengthened. the european union is now trying to come up with an arms trade treaty. this is at the instigation of the british presidency. such a treaty on conventional weapons would be based on states’ existing responsibilities under international law and would establish transfer criteria that are consistent with internationally accepted standards of human rights and humanitarian law. it should be legally binding, be a separate and self-standing initiative, cover all conventional arms transfers, set out the principles defining illegal transfers, include monitoring, and be broadly based. on weapons of mass proliferation, it is now two years since we developed a fully fledged strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. commitments have been made both by the european union and the g8 global partnership. in this context, it is critical to ensure that financial means will be available for the future. the combination of the cfsp and community tools would allow the european union to maintain better visibility and also more credibility. however, a lot has to be done, as i said earlier, for instance, within the framework of the united nations, where we were very disappointed at the last negotiations on weapons of mass destruction. on the third issue – defence procurement – let me again thank all of you, and the rapporteur in particular, who supported this report and therefore the proposals put forward by the commission. the political sensitivity of this file cannot, and should not, be underestimated. however, i agree with mr wuermeling when he points out that it mainly concerns the internal market. the report correctly focuses on this issue and on the objectives that are pursued by the commission with its initiatives. as i have said, more efficient public spending on defence will contribute to the prosperity of the union, because it means that taxpayers’ money could be reduced. this will be done within the limits of our community competence and also in full respect for the prerogatives and the sovereignty of our member states. as usual, we will continue to work very closely with the european defence agency, as suggested in the wuermeling report. i am glad that the commission and parliament share the same views, not only on the objectives to be pursued but also on the measures to achieve them. in conclusion, let me say that i am looking forward to discussing these and other questions again, in the high-level interparliamentary conference in early december in brussels. i also thank mr brok and mr von wogau for this initiative. it is highly welcome. perhaps we could also pursue a more security-oriented policy, which has been lacking so far.
we are going to have a very long and complex vote on reach. in fact, i have been told that this is one of the longest and most complex votes in the history of this house. the services that have prepared the vote, as well as the technical staff of the political groups, have done outstanding work in preparing the vote. i should like to congratulate them. (applause)in principle i believe we can get through this vote in not more than three hours, but in order to do that i must ask two things of you: first, please remain silent and concentrate throughout the vote … (laughter and applause)and second, please raise your hands. please! the vote will be long and i understand that you will get tired, but please raise you hands when we vote. here we go. good luck!
we've noted your request.
mr andersson, your remark is already in the minutes and on the voting list, so you can rest assured that the matter is clear.
i agree, mr bonde. - before the vote on amendment no 356:
mr president, at the end of amendment no 356 it will be asked to add the following: 'inorganic substances of wide diffusion or substances for which sufficient information is available on the risks, such as sodium chloride, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, calcium oxide, gold, silver, aluminium, magnesium, silicates, glass and potato chips'. in other words, these are substances for which information is already available.
you have the floor, mr. clark, for a point of order.
member of the commission. mr president, for some of the amendments our position is positive and we agree in full; for some amendments, we agree in part ... (laughter)... for some we agree in principle; some we reject, and for some we reserve our position. (loud applause)
member of the commission. mr president, the commission takes note of the position taken by parliament and will not hesitate to draw all the necessary conclusions from a possible rejection by your assembly, taking account of the council’s position as well. the commission will have to reflect on the best way to move forward in this area.
no, mr baco, there was a clear majority against. so we made the right decision.
the rapporteur. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the council has taken the initiative in this matter. it was a bit of a late hour, but i could have attended the debate. i understand that this is something that has to be planned for the future, to ensure that in such reports the council is present to hear the voice of parliament.
i understand we've already approved it, mr wiersma.
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
mr baco, the committee responsible has recommended that the house reject the initiative. we have voted and the house, by a very large majority, has voted against. the initiative has therefore been rejected and the commissioner has spoken on behalf of the commission. we have completed all the formalities required by the rules of procedure.
the committee responsible has recommended that this proposal be rejected and those who voted against - i have made that clear - rejected it. i have therefore followed the house's decision, which was voted against. that is why i gave the floor to the commissioner, because, as this initiative was rejected, the commissioner had to express the commission's position. i assure you, mr. baco, that everything has been done perfectly. you will note that the entire table is in agreement. the only one who doesn't see it is you, so i think you should think about it. it's impossible that we're all wrong and the only one who sees it clearly is you, mr. baco. however, if you are still not convinced, the deputy secretary-general and the members who are sitting with me at the table will explain this to you in private so that you can rest assured.
mr president, perhaps we had naively thought that the reach vote would end at 11.30 or 12.00 and that this morning we could have the debate and vote on two such important subjects as european development policy and the european union's development strategy for africa. it is obviously not possible to have a debate in conditions of dignity for the subject and respect for the colleagues who have worked as rapporteurs on both reports. in view of this situation, we believe that it is essential to postpone the vote in any event. we also think it would be desirable to postpone the debates, because we are debating two fundamental issues with the chamber practically empty, which are followed with interest by the diplomatic media, by the countries concerned and by non-governmental organizations. but if it is not possible to change the date of the debates, let us have them now, in a clandestine way. that will be the responsibility of those who do not want to find an agreement on this. i do not accept the pressure from the council when it tells us that we have to debate badly now because the council is meeting next week. but if anyone is against delaying the debates, they must be held. in any event, i ask that the vote be postponed to a future sitting.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we think mrs martens' report is serious and timely. in the committee on development, he received widespread support and our vote. i do not have time now to comment on the substance of the report, the resolution of which the socialists will agree to if it is not altered by amendments in the house. we have long argued that it is an ethical and political responsibility for europe to contribute decisively to the development of africa, but in recent times it should be clear to everyone that this development has also become an imperative necessity for maintaining both stability on the international stage and european stability and prosperity. we therefore agree with mrs martens that the efforts to help africa to overcome its dramatic situation of underdevelopment must become a real priority for the european union's policies. in this respect, it will be essential to understand that our role must be to accompany african leaders in making their own decisions. we are therefore concerned that the commission communication, which is the subject of mrs martens' report, no longer refers to the african union and the strategic plan which the heads of state of this sister institution have defined as strategic priorities for the development of their continent. we may be making the mistake of setting our own priorities which are not the same as those of the main parties concerned, who are, in any case, partners bound by the objectives we have mentioned.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to express my surprise and indignation - and that of my group - that this report, like mrs martens' report on the european development strategy for africa, has not found a better place, and above all, more speaking time in our plenary. we are now discussing what the european union's development policy should be in the coming years. this is an area of direct concern to millions of europeans, many of them young people who are committed and supportive; the kind of citizens we should try to win over to the european construction project. however, the way we are dealing with these issues today, treating them as something absolutely marginal and insignificant, is fuelling their indifference, their scepticism and their rejection of what this european union means. that said, we support the commissioner's words and in particular mr wijkman's excellent report and we express our respect for his work and for his effort to summarize and compromise. the resolution was voted for by the socialists and was adopted almost unanimously by the committee on development. we think it is correct and we hope that it will not be adversely affected by certain amendments, which would force us to vote against the final text. but the document which was negotiated between the council and the commission, with the help of mr wijkman, on behalf of the committee on development, is something else entirely. as commissioner michel has acknowledged, this has certainly contributed to the fact that the declaration known as the 'european consensus on development' contains many of our main concerns and demands in this area. i would like to make it clear that the socialist group believes that adopting the resolution proposed by the wijkman report does not imply adopting the text agreed by the council and the commission and that, in order to have the support of parliament and thus be a tripartite agreement, it must receive the express support of the house.
author. mr president, often the socioeconomic context and political conditions aggravate what should in reality be strictly a natural disaster. that is the case of kashmir. after the earthquake in october, which killed between 70,000 and 90,000 people and left seven million homeless, we need to respond immediately, urgently. this is the call we are obviously making and which must be made to the european union, the council and the commission. we can only express our condolences and assure you of our utmost commitment to the provision of this aid. but at the same time, we should not be satisfied with this emergency action. we must tackle the more structural aspects and we must also commit the european union's support to reform and to solving structural problems which need to be addressed, not only from the point of view of infrastructure but also from the socioeconomic point of view, precisely so that, on similar occasions, the consequences are not as serious as they are at the moment. so we must also insist to the governments of the affected countries that this would be a good opportunity for them to prioritise social and domestic needs, to stop spending so much on military aspects and to devote - and that is where we have to support them - all their efforts to ensuring that the structures are as adequate as possible and that the effects of earthquakes of this kind are as minor as possible.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative is intended to prevent the execution of the death sentence in the philippines against the young european of spanish nationality, francisco larrañaga, in good time. during the long judicial process that preceded his conviction, paco larrañaga has firmly, insistently and unequivocally proclaimed his innocence in relation to the horrific crimes of which he was accused. the legal defence of the convicted man and qualified human rights organisations have denounced that the trial was conducted without the proper guarantees, without respecting the rights of the defence and that the sentence passed, which disregards the existing evidence, is arbitrary and unfair. despite this, last july, the philippine supreme court upheld the death sentence. when judicial remedies are exhausted, the only avenue provided for in the philippine legal system to avoid execution and address paco larrañaga's grave situation is the granting of an indulgence by president gloria macapagal-arroyo. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this direction, including those of the king of spain, the president of the spanish government and the president of the european parliament. last monday, statements were made in the philippines by a retired police officer who actively participated in the investigation of the crimes in favor of the innocence of larrañaga. this information, which has been widely reported in our media, reaffirms the value of this resolution. we are defending the right to life and the fundamental rights of paco larrañaga. we also stand for our values: to eradicate the death penalty from the world and to restore the action of justice. we join the legislative initiative of the philippine congress to abolish the death penalty. presidential clemency will affirm the commitment to democracy and human rights, which will strengthen the international credibility of the philippines. the security of the present moment requires that the objective of obtaining a full pardon for paco larrañaga be given priority and we therefore consider it appropriate to avoid amendments which do not focus on this fundamental and urgent objective.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. with this resolution we can lend a hand and help you, because your innocence is evident, so that you can get out of the prison in which you are unjustly held. ladies and gentlemen, i was in the philippines last week visiting francisco larrañaga. he's been in that prison for eight years, since he was 19, and on death row for two years now. it is a prison where there are 18 000 people, of whom 1 200 are on death row, with a confirmed sentence in 250 cases. they sleep in the hallways because there aren't enough cells in that prison. besides, paco larrañaga went to that prison without a fair trial, neither credible nor tolerable. they wouldn't let him defend himself at trial. thirty witnesses for the defense were unable to testify because the judges wouldn't let them. larrañaga's lawyers, when they asked for the intervention of witnesses or larrañaga himself, were jailed for contempt. a body, which was found disfigured - allegedly one of the victims - was not dna tested. he was two inches shorter. the family didn't recognize him, etc. as if that were not enough, this week this case has taken a 180 degree turn as my colleague and friend antolín sánchez presedo said, with the statements of a police officer who said that larrañaga was innocent. despite this, unfortunately, the case has been closed by the courts in the philippines. that is why we must support the political groups of filipino deputies who are going to present a draft abolition of the death penalty to the philippine congress, so that it becomes a reality and the end of the death penalty in the philippines comes. this resolution is intended to save a european citizen who is about to be killed in his innocence. we all know that from the evidence we've seen. that is why i ask you to support this resolution, so that the pardon is a reality and larrañaga is not in those philippine prisons for one second longer.
author. mr president, the case of francisco larrañaga, as has already been said, obliges us once again to analyse and promote the debate on the need to universalise the abolition of the death penalty. the larrañaga case has all the characteristics of an unfair process and lacks the minimum procedural guarantees, which are hardly acceptable under current international law. unfortunately, the situation of larrañaga is particularly delicate, as it seems that there is no longer any possibility of appealing the death sentence, which was handed down in july 2005. the important thing, however, is not only that mr larrañaga is a spanish citizen, and therefore a european citizen, but that there are also almost 2 000 other people who are in similar circumstances, and therefore it must be remembered that the fact that in the philippines the indiscriminate detention of suspects is commonplace or that torture is also commonplace and that these people are often held incommunicado contributes to increasing our concern about mr larrañaga's particular case. that is why, in this house, where we rarely have the opportunity to analyse and work on the situation in the philippines, this is a good opportunity to recall this and many other issues of concern to us. in the european union's relations with third countries, the abolition of the death penalty should be a norm that should be disseminated and valued by those countries which use it in order to normalize their relations with the european union. the case of larrañaga is, therefore - i insist - an occasion to recall the need to appeal for the abolition of the death penalty. in the specific case of the philippines, i would like to appeal to president gloria macapagal-arroyo to at least reinstate the moratorium on the death penalty and, secondly, as some of my colleagues have also said, i stress the need to repeal the law reintroducing the death penalty. in this respect, i support the initiatives that are open in the philippine congress.
mr president, in the following case, what we are actually doing is supporting the proposal put forward by the rapporteur himself, mr wijkman, on behalf of the epp-ed group, to postpone the vote. we, as the socialist group, support this proposal. as regards mrs martens' report, i insist that the vote be postponed until the next part-session in brussels. i do so out of respect for mrs martens herself as rapporteur and, of course, out of respect for the importance of the subject. i think it's a scandal that passes with only 79 votes, with 79 participants. i do not understand how mrs martens thinks that this strengthens her position, or the position of parliament. if i were the rapporteur, i would not think about it at all. i therefore ask, on behalf of my group, that this matter be put to the vote at the next part-session in brussels.
mr president, i am addressing the house, i am addressing mr posselt, on the minutes of today, we will see that on two occasions mr wijkman said that he was speaking on behalf of the epp group. maybe mr. posselt wasn't there when you left. we were here, we heard it. so, since there is apparently a malfunction, i am simply maintaining the same position as we have held previously: it is no longer seventy-nine votes, it is seventy-two votes at the moment.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 17 november 2005.
before proceeding with the items on the agenda, i think i should make two statements on topical and urgent subjects which call for the attention of parliament. the first concerns the continuing kidnappings in iraq, which in recent days have affected five western citizens, bringing the number of foreigners currently detained or considered missing to 40. of course, the number of iraqis is much higher: there are already 100 kidnapped among the population of that country. among the latest abductees are two of our fellow citizens: susanne osthoff, a german archaeologist of renown, who has been part of iraqi society for ten years - and therefore no one whose presence can be attributed to military operations - and who has devoted her entire commitment to helping the iraqi people since the beginning of the war. she was kidnapped, though. and on the other hand, the britishman norman kember, a member of a canadian ngo, who has been kidnapped along with three other humanitarian workers - two canadians and an american. the mobilization for their release is very intense in their respective countries, germany and the united kingdom, and i think that we in the european parliament must support it with all our strength and participate actively in this campaign, reiterating, first of all, that nothing can ever justify such barbaric acts. (applause) the other statement refers to a much more global problem, because it affects not just two or forty people, but millions of human beings: tomorrow, december 1st, is world aids day. i believe that the european parliament must also use all its energy and political influence to deal with this problem. because the mobilization is strong, but insufficient. and we must be aware and make european citizens aware that the pandemic is still progressing fatally, despite the efforts of the whole world. in 2001 an estimated 35 million people were infected with aids. four years later, the figure is now 41 million. half of them are women and two and a half million are children under the age of 15. during this year an estimated five million more people have been infected. the spread of the pandemic is therefore progressing at a rate equivalent to 10% of the accumulated stock. this is simply exponential growth. three million people will have died of aids this year, 500,000 of them children. in addition to its global magnitude, the aids problem is the inequality it reflects. we in the industrialized countries have the means to provide assistance, to prevent and to develop research into more and better vaccines, but most of the world does not have this possibility or any means of defence, especially in africa, to deal with the spread of the epidemic. sub-saharan africa is paying a very high price. in sub-saharan africa, 26 million people are infected. 10% of the world's population hosts 60% of the people who carry the virus, and of those, only 7% have access to health care. these are tremendous, dramatic, cruel figures, reflecting the extent to which this disease is the consequence of global inequality. the epidemic is spreading alongside malnutrition and the food crisis. and without proper nutrition, nothing can stop the spread of aids or cure the sick who are carriers of the disease. so we must do more to help prevent, to inform, to understand and to cure. because aids today is simply an expression of exclusion: exclusion because of irrational fear of contracting the disease; exclusion because of condemnation of behaviour in the name of religious principles; exclusion because of rejection and isolation in the family and in the workplace. and you have to fight against all that in your daily life. i therefore want to express on behalf of the european parliament our sincere thanks to the millions of volunteers all over the world who are working to eradicate this plague. tomorrow, this parliament will be mobilized by an information campaign and a meeting of its committee on development, which will hold a debate with the carriers of the virus and agents working on the ground. i think we should all be aware of the scale of the drama and the political effort needed to deal with it. (applause) i would like to thank
i would remind you that parliament adopted the agenda for this part-session in brussels on monday 14 november in strasbourg. in accordance with our rules of procedure, the agenda is therefore approved and it cannot be changed except by application of a number of articles 134 and 167 to 171 or on a proposal from the president. the practice we have followed so far is that the president endorses only those amendments which have the support of a large majority of the political groups. the president does not want decisions to be taken on his initiative that do not correspond to the majority feeling of the house. on this basis, i propose a number of amendments to today's and tomorrow's agenda which are contained in a corrigendum which has been distributed to you. this saves me from reading a long list of amendments. i must simply add some more that are not in that corrigendum. i am referring to a request by 37 members to refer back to committee, in accordance with rule 168, mr mitchell's report on the development and economic cooperation financing instrument. this request will be put to the vote at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission has taken note of the request made. however, vice-president frattini will be unable to take this item tomorrow as he must attend a meeting of the justice and home affairs council. the commission would, however, be willing to reply to the oral question at a subsequent part-session should parliament decide to include it on the agenda.
there is a concrete proposal. there's been a turn for and against. i have to put the proposal that has been made to the vote. i can't go into a conciliation process right now. (parliament adopted the proposal)
mr president, i am speaking under rule 134. the agenda does not include a resolution closing the debate on the oral question on criminal sanctions in the field of the environment. at a time when the court of justice of the european communities is giving the community legislators new responsibilities, which the commission and the council are beginning to take very seriously, it is quite surprising that our assembly has nothing to say or postpones its position. in these circumstances - and we have received clear indications from the political groups - it would be very appropriate and very urgent, mr president, to change the agenda by providing for the tabling of such a resolution, in order to guide the work of the parliamentary committees on the current issues and also to start a dialogue with the council from january onwards. i would suggest to the political groups, if they wish, that they should vote on this at the january partsession. this would enable us to take account of the position of the commission and the council, which will be dealing with this question on 14 january.
mr cavada, you asked for a change in the january agenda and now we are setting the agenda for the next december part-session. we take your approach into account and the political groups will take it into account when they draw up the agenda for january. before starting the agenda i should like to inform you that the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance will take place after the joint debate on sport.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the sixth wto ministerial conference to be held in hong kong from 13 to 18 december this year.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the delegation from this parliament to attend the next wto meeting in hong kong, i fully support the joint resolution we have tabled and will be voting on tomorrow. since the creation of a parliamentary committee on foreign trade in 1979, this parliament has followed the wto negotiations closely, sending delegations since 1988, especially now that we also have a specific committee on international trade. the european parliament thus strengthens the role of the european union in the context of globalisation, while making an effort to increase the transparency of the activities of this organisation. since the failures of seattle and cancun, it is precisely now that the role of the wto is at stake. as commissioner mandelson has told us, hong kong will be difficult but not impossible, so the approach needs a mixture of realism and ambition. we cannot afford, as has been said here, another failure. this round, which is a priority objective of the community's trade policy, is the best way to ensure that trade expansion is carried out in a balanced way, producing growth but at the same time sustainable development in the multilateral context. the countries 'we know' negotiate by making concessions in some sectors in exchange for gains in others. so we all have to make a real effort to make our offerings balanced. the european commission has put on the table a package on agriculture which is a major effort for the union and probably much more for certain member states. however, it will not be possible to conclude these negotiations successfully without making progress on market access for industrial products and trade in services. the services sector, which is the fastest growing sector in the world economy, is fundamental to the union and is also of great importance in itself and in its impact on other economic sectors. in the case of nama, negotiations are stalled and always dependent on the outcome in other areas. in this context, commissioner, i would like to stress the importance of specific treatment for fishery products, differentiating them from other non-agricultural products. i think that, given their own specificities, which define them, that is to say the fact that they are an exhaustible natural resource, they should continue to have the same consideration as they already had in the uruguay round, that is, the status of sensitive products. i would like to congratulate the commissioner on his excellent work.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, speaking of globalisation, president ricardo lagos recently said to this house that multilateralism is ultimately local politics. the results achieved in hong kong will ultimately be local and will directly affect citizens in their daily lives, both in the union and in the rest of the world. the citizens know it, and from seattle, many are mobilizing. there are great expectations and hopes to which we, as policy makers, must respond. hong kong is not the end of the round, but it can't be a stop. the wto, like bicycles, falls down if you stop pedaling and, with bicycles, we fall down as cyclists. if we fail, we will all lose: bilateralism, darwinism, protectionism and discrimination will win. the round cannot be reduced in ambition, even if it seems necessary to reduce ambition in relation to hong kong. the round must remain focused on development, but also, commissioner, we must defend the interests of our own citizens. that is why we in this house continue to support the union's objective and the strategy pursued by the commission. we ask you to continue your efforts to reach a balanced agreement in the different areas of the negotiation: development, agriculture, nama and services. time is of the essence: the round should be concluded in 2006 in order to pass through the fast track of the us congress as soon as possible. unless the wto bike hits a wall in 2007, once the negotiating mandate granted by congress to the bush administration expires. the other negotiators will have to make a move sooner or later. keep pedaling; keep negotiating until the end.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, the representative of the council presidency said that the evaluation must be rigorous. what happens is that the evaluation is never the same for the persecuted, the imprisoned and, much less, for the families of the condemned to death than for those for whom, technically, we can do this work. the commission has indeed undertaken to continue to work for the utmost respect for human rights in the case of these three countries. that's all there is to it, commissioner. in these three countries we find ourselves in three different situations, but in all of them we can say that we have not made as much progress as we would like in terms of civil liberties and rights. in cambodia, although some progress has been made, we are still far from being able to speak of political freedoms, much less for girls and women, who are victims of sex trafficking, sex tourism and one of the most abject situations of slavery that a woman and a girl can live in. in laos, we can continue to speak, as the council and the commission have rightly said, of prisoners of conscience and of the entire hmong ethnic group, who remain harassed in the forests in an absolutely inhuman situation. in vietnam, it has also been said, we are seriously concerned about religious freedom, which, according to the data we have from human rights organizations, may be increasingly suppressed in some cases. finally, this parliament can serve as a sounding board for the very places where human rights are being violated. the subcommittee on human rights in this parliament has done a great deal of work to bring the situation in these three countries to light and i think it is very important that the progress and setbacks that are being made are brought to the attention of this parliament. as always, the rest of the world, the suffering world, is waiting for our action.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, a few weeks ago we were able to hear a number of testimonies from people who had come from cambodia, laos and vietnam. their testimony was truly worrying, especially in relation to the violation of fundamental rights. in cambodia, as has been said, not only are the attacks on democratic pluralism - persecutions and arbitrary arrests of various leaders - worrying, but also, as my colleague elena valenciano has pointed out, the doubly disturbing situation of girls and women in that country. in laos, the humanitarian situation is becoming increasingly serious and affects not only the hmong population but many other ethnic and national communities; and yet the local authorities are blocking access to humanitarian organizations. and in vietnam, many people are still being imprisoned for having defended, peacefully or through cyber-activism, the right to free expression or even for being members of certain communities. it is therefore reasonable, timely and necessary to ask the commission once again, and the council, to follow closely the developments and to give impetus to the human rights working parties already in existence in laos and vietnam. i am glad to hear from the commission that they are working, but we insist that they must not only work well, but that they must also be accountable. and one of the institutions to which they have to be accountable is this house. this is a request we have been making for some time and we are also making it in the context of the debate on another report, the agnoletto report on the democratic clause. the important thing is not only to 'insist' on working for these facts, on research and on the monitoring of the policy implemented in these countries, but also - and this is most important to me - to be accountable for how this work is being carried out. accountability i insist to european organisations, but also to the people concerned. too often, only outsiders know what is happening and how to fix it; sometimes, it is also necessary that insiders have access to that information.
madam president, as has already been said here, the tradition of the olympic truce was established in ancient greece in the ninth century before christ. during this period, athletes, performers, and their families, as well as pilgrims, could travel safely to participate in the games and return home safely. the proliferation of armed conflict is a reality in our time, and the international olympic committee has rightly decided to bring back this ancient concept to protect the interests of athletes and sport in general, thus helping to create a window of opportunity for dialogue, reconciliation and peace through sport. as a catalan, i must say that i am very proud that it was precisely in 1992, on the occasion of the olympic games in barcelona, that the then mayor of barcelona, pascual maragall, called on the united nations to recover the tradition of the olympic truce and to negotiate a ceasefire in the former federal republic of yugoslavia. the war in the balkans could not be stopped, but the athletes were allowed to participate in those games. it is necessary to remind the international community of the importance of respecting this ceasefire and to appeal to the conscience and commitment of governments to peace, to mobilize youth in favour of the olympic ideals and to use the celebration of the games to enable contacts to be established between communities in conflict. finally, i support this resolution in the hope that the 20th olympic winter games will encourage respect for and continuity of the olympic truce, which is beneficial for peace, sport and human and cultural exchanges worldwide.
mr president, unfortunately there is no olympic truce for the susa valley, a valley near turin, to be precise. i have been there in recent days as part of an official delegation from this parliament and i have been appalled by the suspension of all basic human rights for an italian population of over 100 000 people. we have not been able to carry out our work as a delegation to investigate the complaints of thousands of citizens against a project financed by the european union in freedom. i ask the commission whether it is prepared to carry out a project with substantial european funding, with the total opposition of the local population and under a situation of military occupation against a totally peaceful population, something which should not happen in europe. i ask the commission whether it will take account of the recommendations of this delegation from the committee on petitions. we are indeed facing an unusual situation imposed by the italian government of mr berlusconi.
mr president, i agree wholeheartedly with mr becsey's speech and will therefore concentrate my remarks exclusively on the reduced rate of value added tax applicable to labour-intensive services. any survey carried out in europe reveals that the concerns of europeans are twofold: finding employment and ensuring that there are resources to maintain the welfare state. to calm these concerns, there has been much literature and little concreteness, much noise and few nuts. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a reduced value added tax on labour-creating services, services which encourage the recruitment of workers, especially the least qualified. a reduced rate of vat also allows resources to be brought to the surface, which were previously under water, to finance future pensions. and a reduced vat on labour which allows the unstable relationship between taxes on capital and taxes on labour to be rebalanced. we are now faced with the fact that this experiment, which began in 2000, may end if it is not extended. and we find that the council still has no opinion; the council does not know, it does not answer. i would like to tell the commissioner that he can do much more than he has said in his statement. the commissioner can put pressure on the council: he can tell it that it is not a good idea to end this experiment precisely when new states are joining, where the problems we are trying to solve - lack of jobs, underground economy - are more pressing than in the old states, that it is not a good idea to end an experiment, which can lead to higher prices and a reduction in employment, that it is not a good idea to end this experiment precisely when we are going to discuss the services directive, which has created so much anxiety in the member states on employment, and the commissioner can tell it that this parliament is unanimous and that this parliament does not like to be taken for a joke, especially when, in front of it, there is no well-founded opinion from the council.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 1 december 2005.
ladies and gentlemen, i think this is a good opportunity for the president to make a statement on the death penalty. i say that it is a good occasion because, as you know, on 10 december - two days ago - we celebrated the anniversary of the declaration of human rights. among these rights, there is a fundamental one: the right to life. unfortunately, however, a few days earlier the united states had executed the 1000th death-row inmate since the death penalty was reinstated in 1976. the magic of the round figures 1 000 and their coincidence in the calendar with the anniversary of the declaration of human rights give this circumstance a special relevance. but not only in the united states, there was an execution, but also in singapore, on the same day, another convict was executed. it is a good time to recall that the european union is opposed to the death penalty because it considers it contrary to our values. the abolition of the death penalty is a sine qua non condition for any country's accession to the european union. fortunately, the abolition of the death penalty is progressing worldwide: in 1977, 16 countries had abolished the death penalty, and today there are 84. but in 76 countries the death penalty is still in force, and in 24 countries, although it has been abolished in practice, since no executions have been carried out for 10 years, it remains in the legal code. although the number of countries applying this penalty has decreased, the number of executions is dramatically high. according to amnesty international, in 2004, 7 400 people were sentenced to death and nearly 3 800 people were executed in 25 countries. so let us not focus on the 1,000th execution in the united states, but on the global picture of what is happening in the world as a whole: 3,800 people were executed in 2004. however, 95% of these executions, almost all of them, took place in china, iran, vietnam and the united states. the united states is the only democratic country which still applies the death penalty in a meaningful way; in its prisons there are 3 400 convicted persons awaiting execution. significantly, 120 people sentenced to death have been released before their execution because their innocence has been proven. here's the situation. a situation which, however, allows a glimmer of hope to be seen, because american society is evolving against the death penalty, as are popular juries, and the supreme court has abolished its application to minors and the mentally disabled. in twelve federal states it has been abolished; in another 20 it is no longer enforced. but unfortunately, china is the country that holds the absolute record for executions. it seems that there are about 6 000 executions a year, although amnesty international puts the figure at 3 400. i would like to remind you of this situation because i believe that we members of parliament must work to convince our counterparts in all countries that the death penalty must be abolished, because for us europeans life is an inalienable right and no one loses the right to that right whatever his faults. that is what it means to be inalienable: it does not depend on the responsibility of each individual, but on his own existence and essence as a human being. thank you very much for your attention. (applause) i would like to thank
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 8 december 2005. - wednesday:
i will then pass on the request made by mr martin schulz to the council presidency to incorporate it into its statement, but we have not formally changed any item on the agenda. - thursday:the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe has tabled a request that the title of the debate 'detaining monks and closing a monastery in tibet' be replaced by 'human rights situation in tibet and hong kong'.
the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe also calls for the title of the debate to be replaced by 'ethiopia and new border conflicts', as it appears in the debates on cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. i shall give priority to those members who have not yet spoken.
mr president, the ladies in white who have been awarded the sakharov prize, as has been mentioned here this afternoon, have not been able to use the tickets put at their disposal by the european parliament to come and collect the prize next wednesday, because they have not been authorized by the cuban government, which is a flagrant violation of the rights of these people and a disregard, mr president, of the majority will of this parliament. mr president, the only chance these people have of being here on wednesday is if they can catch tonight's flight. i ask you to mobilize all your efforts to make this possible. these people have committed no crime other than to defend the rights of their relatives courageously and peacefully, and therefore, mr president, i think that we, as representatives of the european parliament, should make every effort to ensure that they can be here to receive the sakharov prize next wednesday.
mr salafranca, you can be sure that the presidency and all the organs of this parliament have done everything in their power to influence the cuban authorities to obtain this permission. minutes before entering the plenary i have spoken again with the newly appointed cuban ambassador to the european union, who presented his credentials to the council presidency this morning, and i hope to speak to the cuban foreign minister later this afternoon. i cannot guarantee you any result, but i can assure you that the presidency has done everything in its power to ensure that the sakharov prize winners can come to receive it.
mr president, on behalf of myself and mr jamila madeira and mr giovanni pittella, i ask mr blair, represented by the council, to correct the insult to european intelligence and democratic values which is the discrimination which, in his financial proposal, applies to the regions of the algarve, basilicata, asturias, murcia, ceuta and melilla in relation to three german länder, three greek regions and one austrian region, which suffer the same statistical effect but are treated better. we shall be hearing from you again in brussels on 20 december. let us hope that by then you will not have materialized this shameful and unacceptable discrimination and i can congratulate you.
you know the procedures for formally requesting the establishment of a committee of inquiry. if you want to do it, you know how.
i'm sorry to interrupt, but the time allotted for this shift of interventions has run out.
yes, i think we should, but we have already done it: we have already extended half an hour; we can extend it further, if necessary, but now already, more than half an hour, we have three quarters of an hour. there are 12 other people who wish to speak and i cannot continue to give the floor to the members who have already spoken at previous partsession. i beg you to understand. we have to move on to the next item on the agenda. members who were unable to speak today will have priority next time.
mr. de rossa, i'm willing to change the rules we've established. i would remind you that i wrote to all of you quite some time ago explaining how i intended to manage this difficult time. i have not received any comments against it, but we can review the rules at any time, so if you think there is any way to improve them, believe me, i will be happy to help you. i did not give you the floor today, mr de rossa, because you had the good fortune to speak at the previous two partsession, as you know very well, and i thought that you should give priority to the members who have spoken before.
the next item is the report by mrs diana wallis, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity and privileges of mr bruno gollnisch (2005/2072 (imm)) (a6-0376/2005).
on behalf of the green group, mr president, we are really faced with a profoundly european issue, a question of rights: we cannot apply european legislation without dealing with the urban scandal in the mediterranean. we cannot even apply the treaty in relation to human rights, nor can we apply the directives on public procurement, the water framework directive, the strategic environmental assessment directive, without facing what the president of the higher council of architectural colleges has just this morning called an urban horror: he has said that the mediterranean coast is clogged, that the territory is suffering from a major overcrowding and an irreversible impact that will leave an ecological footprint that is too hard. we must put an end to this horror as soon as possible, which is violating the rights of people: thousands and thousands of people - the vast majority are valencians - are suffering from this situation. a sustainable environment is not compatible with this model. i believe that these violations of european directives must be met with a strong and rapid european response. and in that sense we have produced a report together, thanks to the exemplary work of the committee on petitions over two years, which adopted this report unanimously. and now some people who voted in favour in the committee on petitions want to damage, to weaken this report irreversibly. i don't think he's being too honest. i believe that the environmental interests of the citizens are more important than the interests of the brick and cement industry, which wants to cover the entire mediterranean coast.
mr president, the first thing i have to do, and i cannot do otherwise, is to thank mrs fourtou for the preparation of this report, a report which - as we have said - has been much debated and worked on; a report which - as has also been said here - has had, let us not forget, an unusual background in the committee on petitions: the fact that two parliamentary delegations have visited the valencian community to talk and discuss this subject. but i think that this issue is coming to an end today and, moreover, that this report will call into question the socialist urban planning model that existed in the valencian community, which the socialists set in motion when they were in power. in my opinion, the saying "those dusts brought these muds" can be applied. i am therefore pleased, as mr libicki said, that now, with this new report, which i imagine will be adopted by this european parliament, it will, among other things, welcome the initiative of the present valencian government to draft and draw up a new law to replace the previous socialist law. and above all, i would like to stress and remind you that this new law, which will be able to be implemented and applied, will have two fundamental points: firstly, that this new law is adopted in the exercise of the powers which, in urban planning, belong exclusively to the valencian government, and secondly, that the report also approves a series of recommendations so that the rule of law can deal with the complaints which, under the old lrau, have or have had, that is to say, all the rights of citizens who have addressed this committee on petitions are now to be safeguarded. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sure that the just solution will come with the disappearance of the lrau created by the previous socialist government, and i am convinced that this just solution will be achieved by the implementation of the new law that the government of the popular party of the valencian community intends to create.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs fourtou for the work she has done in the commission. he has been very open-minded, we have been able to discuss many compromise amendments, and we know that he has had a difficult job, because this is an issue on which you cannot imagine the number of interests involved and, therefore, the pressures involved. i want to say and make it clear that, firstly, thousands of european citizens have been living in the valencian community for decades, millions of them visit us every year, and that these people are satisfied with living in our community and with the high quality services they generally receive in their daily lives. we are therefore talking about a welcoming community. for most of those who are there and those who want to come, it's a lucky thing to be able to share their lives with us. it should also be said that most people can normally resolve their problems before the courts and are served by certain local authorities in many places. but others do not see these problems solved, and right now we are facing a very significant number of people who do not see these problems solved. i am therefore appalled that in the last three years there has been a very marked increase in complaints of urban abuse. as a european citizen, born and resident in the valencian community, i am sincerely sorry that we have to hold this debate, but it must be remembered that if this is so, it is because the complaints presented in this parliament have been made by thousands of european citizens who feel themselves victims of urban abuse. we are facing, and this must be said clearly, an exceptional event in spain and in the rest of europe, which, it must also be remembered, provoked the formal protest of seventeen ambassadors of the european union. other spanish regions have laws similar to the lrau; even the head of the autonomous secretariat for territory and environment came here to say that the law was very good. despite having similar laws, they've obviously never had a problem of this magnitude. i would therefore like to say that it is right that we are looking after the citizens; moreover, i believe that the authorities asked the delegation that was there to make proposals, and i believe that this is what the commission has done. i think it is necessary to demand respect from the citizens in the face of economic groups which have enormous power and in the face of which the citizens are often left defenceless. i think it is up to us to contribute to what mr iturgaiz was saying: that we do not have to repeat this debate and that we can put an end to this situation. if we do not promote these solutions now, it is clear that in the future, unfortunately, we will have to face this problem again here. and, as i was saying, as a citizen of the valencian community, i hope that these problems will be solved and that the incompetence of a regional government will not damage our image, as it is doing to many european citizens, because our community does not deserve that.
mr president, let me first of all congratulate the rapporteur, mrs fourtou, on the work she has done, and i regret that that work was later altered in the final process of adopting certain amendments, denaturing what was originally a reasonable report. because, finally, what brings us here today, ladies and gentlemen, is a mixture of irresponsible populism on the part of members who want to satisfy, at all costs, their fellow citizens residing in spain and on the part of spanish members who have decided to make local or regional policy from the european parliament - on one side or the other; you have just seen it. this mixture of irresponsible populism of one kind and another leads to aberrations such as those which can be voted on here if this text is not amended. it is sad to see the european parliament become a regional legislator, totally perverting the principle of subsidiarity and telling an autonomous community what it has to do, how it has to do it, how it has to legislate, when it can grant planning licences and under what conditions. i understand and share the criticism of this law, without a doubt, and i of course share the criticism of the application of the law by the valencian government and its application. but, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is not the sanctuary of lourdes, to which one turns when all hope has been lost in any other sphere. this is a serious institution and the only thing that is achieved by bringing a resolution of this kind here is to create a false image before the citizens, since resolutions are being passed which will be absolutely sterile, because it is in the valencian cortes where this issue will be resolved, and a reputation is being created which in no way contributes to reinforcing the work of this house or to reinforcing the respect we ask the citizens for our work. therefore, i make any criticism of the urban situation in valencia absolutely my own: criticism of the law and criticism of the government. your treatment in this house is tantamount to protesting here over the delays in the london underground. i think that the european parliament is not the place for this and what we are doing, by adopting a document like this, is to pervert the institutional system itself.
mr president, i am not intending with my speech to express any sort of disrespect to the autonomy of the valencian country. in any case, i believe that its autonomy is insufficient considering the real need of this area of the catalan countries. having said this, i believe that it is necessary to introduce a requirement for a common european vision regarding territorial planning and environment protection. it is my assumption that real estate speculators take advantage of the feeble nature of valencian autonomy. this is a breeding ground for large-scale corruption. a consensus is necessary in the eu in order to avoid policies that threaten rational european planning and the environment. states, regions and autonomous communities should play a role in the definition of this consensus. the failure to move towards this goal will cause areas such as the valencian country and the balearic islands, where construction is the main economic activity, to see their whole territories jeopardised. it is already a major anomaly that the building sector is the main profitable activity in our part of the world. not putting an end to this will mean that certain business groups will become richer, bringing about massive social, environmental and economic troubles in the near future.
mr president, i would like to make two preliminary points before going into the debate. firstly, the complaints we are examining here are directed against a legitimate law, passed by a regional parliament in the exercise of its powers and not invalidated by the constitutional court. secondly, the judgments we are passing here do not in any case concern unlawful acts: spain is a guarantor country, with an open judicial system, which, incidentally, culminates in the european courts, and it is for them to judge moral wrongdoing according to the clear principle of criminal law nullum crimen nulla poena sine lege. i understand the reflections made by mr guardans and i would not have tolerated an invasion of the powers of either the regional or the national parliament or the spanish courts. it is the duty of this parliament, and mrs fourtou has done so with unparalleled elegance, to respond to the requests of the citizens and to make recommendations; recommendations, by the way, which the present government of the valencian community has very generously and intelligently taken up. what this parliament cannot do is try to replace the town planning which is the responsibility of the regional authorities, which is what i thought i understood from the speech 'i think in english' by my compatriot joan i marí. secondly, it cannot impose a moratorium either, because that is the responsibility of the regional parliament. thirdly, this parliament cannot establish compensation: an administrative authority cannot pay compensation without a court judgment or an administrative decision without committing the crime of embezzlement. and finally, it cannot be used, as mr guardans has rightly said, and i am addressing this parliament to mr calabuig for a political trial. mr calabuig has not said that the law we are discussing was decided by the socialist majority to which he belongs, not by the majority to which i belong. secondly, he did not say that he was the author of an amendment which says that the petitions are concentrated in the last three years, a period which corresponds to the camps government; the petitions are much earlier and he has the political intention of placing that issue on the regional government, because it is the government which - by the way, for now with little success and i hope for a long time - he intends to overthrow. i agree with mr guardans on this point: it is not lawful, it is not morally decent to use this parliament to smear the name of a community, a legitimately elected parliament and a government backed by the citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, i agree with the rapporteur on the importance of this directive. for me, it is an umbrella directive for all that is being done and should be done on energy efficiency. parliament made significant progress on this directive at first reading. now, at second reading, the rapporteur, mrs rothe, and the shadow rapporteurs have continued to improve the proposals. they have further developed a number of essential elements in the common position and have successfully negotiated a package of compromise amendments which will reshape and improve the proposal even further. regarding the question of targets, i, like most of you, regret that a compromise has only been possible without binding targets, but the final version of the amendments introduces a number of binding measures, which strongly compensates for the loss of binding targets. while the targets are now indicative, member states must still commit to adopting and aiming to achieve national energy savings targets, and to taking cost-effective measures designed to achieve these targets. moreover, impacts of the measures taken to meet the targets will be quantified using a harmonised measurement system. member states will also have to plan their measures and report their results in national energy efficiency action plans. these will be assessed by the commission, and for the commission, this is an acceptable construction. we would like to assure parliament that the mandate given to the commission to develop a system of benchmarks, top-down indicators and bottom-up measurements, will be used wisely and effectively. for the public sector, there is no separate target in the compromise, but a number of binding measures. member states must publish mandatory public procurement guidelines for energy efficiency improvement. furthermore, they must select and use a number of public procurement requirements. while the commission would have preferred a separate public sector target, we feel that these elements, and the requirement to include the public sector in the national action plans, will compensate for the lack of a separate target. article 13 on metering and informative billing of energy consumption has also been improved compared to the common position. the reporting requirements for member states and the commission in article 14 have been strengthened and these, together with the measurement system, will make member states’ achievements quantifiable and visible. although this activity will put an increased burden on the commission, we welcome the challenge. i can promise parliament an adequate internal allocation of resources for this task. to conclude, i have on earlier occasions said that energy efficiency is one of the main priorities of this commission. that will remain so throughout our mandate period. this new directive is expected to be a valuable tool for achieving that goal. i would like to thank parliament for that and assure it that the tool will be used as effectively as possible. last but not least, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs rothe, and the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment, their very constructive cooperation and hard work in reaching an agreement at second reading.
, on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, the european union is at a time when immediate action to improve energy efficiency is a necessity. we must therefore welcome the fact that we have reached an interinstitutional agreement which has the support of the majority of this house. and in this context i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs mechtild rothe, and the other alternative rapporteurs on their excellent work and their constructive attitude throughout the process. the aim of this directive is to encourage the development of a market in energy services which, although it already exists, is not sufficiently known to final consumers. we put options on the table that do not require additional investment, such as energy saving contracts, the amount of which is paid with the equivalent of the energy bill saved after the changes. this directive also seeks to influence the consumption habits of citizens. in this respect, it is appropriate to provide them with detailed information on their actual consumption and the potential for savings, if certain measures are taken, such as the use of smart meters. as regards the public sector, the role of member states in including energy efficiency criteria in public procurement should be emphasised. during the first nine years, they will have to draw up three energy efficiency action plans, detailing the measures taken and future objectives. mr president, let me end by reiterating that our group is fully satisfied with this agreement, because we believe that realistic objectives, accompanied by economically viable and technically feasible means, are the ideal formula for achieving positive results.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner kovács, ladies and gentlemen, the taxation of companies in the union affects the functioning of the internal market, the competitiveness of european companies and tax relations between member states. it is a key issue for the launch of the lisbon strategy and the achievement of its growth and employment objectives. the application of 25 different corporate taxes creates obstacles to cross-border activities, reduces the efficiency of companies by imposing higher costs on them, and raises numerous tax problems for member states, as well as increasing the complexity of combating tax fraud and evasion, dealing with double taxation and resolving group relationships with presence in different member states. the heterogeneity of existing regulations prevents economic coordination between states in this field, encourages the pursuit of advantage through tax optimisation practices, which can affect the level playing field for business, and generates legal uncertainties, which are giving rise to increasing judicialisation. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bersani, on having dealt with all these aspects in his report with balance and rigor, achieving an important consensus in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the creation of a legal framework establishing a common and consolidated tax base for community-scale companies in corporate taxation is an indispensable instrument to address the problems raised. it will provide transparency to make homogeneous comparisons between states and promote their coordination in the tax area in accordance with the integrated guidelines adopted to relaunch the lisbon strategy. the report is ambitious. it calls for the first tax harmonisation in the field of direct taxation, calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal by 2007 and seeks to put an end to a harmful regulatory deadlock in this area. the achievement of a common tax base is of great value in itself, regardless of whether it is a prerequisite for further progress. we therefore strongly support the report and we welcome the broad support for it, so that there can be no doubt about parliament's willingness to move forward on this historic milestone.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by clarifying what we are talking about, because following a speech by commissioner mccreevy, it seems to me that his ideas do not coincide with those of mr kovács within the commission itself, and certainly not with those of this parliament, even on the subject of the debate. what we are talking about now is establishing common rules for defining the taxable base. we are not talking about harmonizing or approximating tax rates, which will remain in the hands of the member states. that being said, why am i in favour of consolidating the tax base and why do i approve and applaud mr bersani's report? firstly, because i believe in a functioning internal market. and for an internal market to work, companies operating across the market, multinational companies, cannot be subject to 25 different rules when defining what is a computable income or a deductible expense. secondly, because i am in favour of the european citizen, and the european citizen who wants to invest his savings in a company will judge more clearly the benefits of companies if they are all defined by the same rules. thirdly, because i do not like tax evasion, and i believe that the consolidation of the tax base will make it possible to eliminate transfer and localization costs for corporate transactions in those countries which are more permissive when it comes to not counting an expense or being able to deduct a transaction. finally, because if we are to defend tax competition between member states, competition will be cleaner, more transparent, more brutal, if i may say so, if the different states apply different rates - the rates they want - to homogeneous realities. because it's the only way to compute it. and finally, mr president, a warning: if we do not do this, as we have done in the code of good conduct, the court of justice will do it, for the sake of this parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am responsible for tabling amending budget no 8. as in previous years, and as members of this house are well aware, we are faced with the same budgetary problems of implementation and political representativeness. as regards the 2005 budget alone, 10% of the payment appropriations that you, ladies and gentlemen, voted on last december could not be used and we will also have to return eur 3.8 billion to the member states because we cannot be involved in the decisions that we, as members of parliament, voted on at the time. it is difficult to know to what extent the european commission, the member states, the council or parliament itself are responsible for this situation, which is repeated year after year. we as a parliament are voting every year on budget appropriations based on our own political debate and the interests we believe our constituents bring to this house, and that is why we are here. we vote on what we believe to be the union's interests, both in foreign policy and in internal policies and in the structural funds. the european commission, it must be admitted, is making an increasing effort every year to better implement the policies, the budgetary mandates, that we have as european members. and we know that the member states make an effort, year after year, both to finance the budget and to implement community policies. but the figures for implementation for each year show that there is still something lacking in the budgetary allocation process of the appropriations we voted for and in their final implementation, both in the member states and in the community programmes. amending budget no 8, which i am submitting to you for approval, includes, among other items, the repayment to the member states of eur 3.8 billion. we know that this is good news for the finance ministers of the member states, since this is an amount which they do not have to put into the community budget to finance the financial year 2005. however, from a european point of view, this is not good news, because this saving comes from a very strong under-implementation of payment appropriations for the structural funds. in the 2005 budgetary procedure we already agreed with the council a sharp reduction in the structural funds, below what we had in our first reading of the budget, and even below the preliminary draft budget presented by the commission. we also agreed a joint declaration with the other two institutions in which the council undertook to present an amending budget, which would include the payment appropriations necessary to pay the structural funds, should implementation have been as planned. in october the european commission presented us with a first draft of amending budget no 8, which spoke of real budgetary needs and also spoke of eur 600 million in structural funds which should have been included in the community budget. in the end, none of that happened. the commission has been revising its figures throughout november, based on the information it has received from the member states on budget implementation, and in the end what were financing needs have become surpluses. even with this repayment of 3.8 billion euros, there could be a surplus of payment appropriations in the structural funds at the end of the year. ladies and gentlemen, the interpretation we can take of this is wrong. this is bad news both for our colleague mr pittella's 2006 budget and for the negotiation of the financial perspective. the union's budget can never be made solely through the principle of savings, but through the principles of effectiveness and european added value. mr president, what is the european added value of returning payment appropriations, year after year, to the finance ministers? this is not a good way of making the community budget or of building a really effective europe. the political message we send to the european citizens year after year is quite disappointing. madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the council, if this parliament votes on budgetary appropriations, it does so in the hope and the desire that they will be properly implemented by all. i think that is the lesson we must learn this year, and hopefully throughout 2006 we will be better at it. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr pittella, and his team on the excellent work they have done, and i would like to add that i do not usually congratulate all the rapporteurs when they have finished their reports. your effort has been great and the problems, many. i know, as a former rapporteur on the union's budget, that it is not an easy task to deliver a budget. i would like to focus, mr president, on the aspects which i consider to be of particular importance. firstly, a principle which parliament has always advocated has been put into practice for the first time: the amounts adopted in codecision are not sacred and can be changed if the budgetary authority deems it necessary. we all agree that the security of the financial packages is an important factor in improving the management of multiannual programmes. but we cannot make a target of what is only a tool. this is what separates us from the council. perhaps what separates us from the council is the definition of objectives. perhaps the council's aim is simply to ensure that nothing will change once a decision has been taken. what we could, i think, call "the safety of the accountant". we must add to this that the programmes for which the amount has been increased in the 2006 budget are highly symbolic for the european union. both the socrates programme, which is known to many citizens, and youth are examples of what can be done from parliament to create a european consciousness among the citizens of the union. the life programme, which was set up by parliament itself years ago, is also one of the most popular among european citizens and shows more clearly what kind of europe we want here in parliament. i am also pleased that the council has not been able to impose the absurd manipulation, which they call 'interpretation', of the rules for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. and since all these achievements are the result of two people, and i do not want to be only negative towards the council, i want to congratulate the british presidency, which i admit did not have too much confidence in at the beginning, but which has finally managed to rise to the occasion.
i am glad that agreement has finally been reached on the 2006 budget, and i would like to stress two main points: one directly connected with the budget and the other indirectly. first of all, i would like to stress the fact that more than six co-decision programmes have been allocated eur 100 million, which i consider to be very remarkable and very encouraging. i believe that this is the way the community budget should be run in the years to come. the efforts made in relation to small and mediumsized enterprises are particularly relevant. we must not forget that, after all, there are 23 million smes in europe, representing two thirds, nothing more and nothing less, of all private sector employment. there is no doubt that the success of smes will be the success of growth and employment in europe. but there is an important but: research and development are also a fundamental pillar of the competitiveness of our companies, of the competitiveness of our economies. and in this connection, there is a very worrying fact: the current financial perspectives do not include an increase in the fund for research and development. although the british presidency has been very judiciously, i would say very judiciously, stressing the importance of research and innovation again and again, there is no parallel effort in the budget proposal in that direction. the british proposal - which is not an original proposal, as the commission had already proposed - to increase the european investment bank's funds and, through soft loans and guarantees, to be able to proceed with further development of research is not a solution to the problem, but must be a complementary instrument. it is essential, if we are to maintain the consistency and credibility of a discourse that focuses competitiveness on innovation, development and research, that research funds be provided in the financial perspective. otherwise we will be going backwards, once again, in relation to the lisbon objectives.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i have three points to make and one final thought. the report we have just voted on has a number of flaws which this parliament cannot ignore, since many of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur herself were rejected. the sixth paragraph, as it is written, and not as it should have been written according to the rapporteur's report, obliges the national and regional legislature to introduce a number of specifics which fall within its exclusive competence. i am not appealing here to the principle of subsidiarity: it is a clear encroachment on powers. the same applies to the erratum, which seeks to suspend the application of a legitimate law, adopted by a legitimate regional parliament and not invalidated by the constitutional court: it is a clear invasion of powers by this parliament. secondly, in recital j, contrary to the amendment tabled by the rapporteur herself and at the instigation of the spanish socialists, reference is made to the existence of criminal offences. the criminal offences, in any state governed by the rule of law, as the president knows, must be applied, determined and specified by a court, in accordance with a very old principle: nullum crimen, nulla poena sine lege. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at the agreement finally reached on such a complex matter from a technical and political point of view. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and it is not a matter of the member states being able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's citizens are not deprived of their rights. i know it's been difficult and also that the agreement contains important concessions and waivers. ladies and gentlemen, i would disagree with those who deny the timeliness, the effectiveness or the proportionality of the measure. whether we like it or not, our society of values is under threat and, whether we like it or not, the instruments we have so far have not been fully effective in dealing with this threat. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i commend, as i have always done, this initiative which we are debating today, and which i hope will have the support of the majority of the house tomorrow. security versus freedom, not so much. i say, infinite freedom, but with security; and that, simply, because without security we cannot fully enjoy our freedoms. terror and crime take advantage of our doubts and hesitations and probe into our weak spots to attack our societies. we must oppose this with all the strength of our democratic system, a system which always advocates full respect for legal guarantees. to doubt that this is so is to doubt, ladies and gentlemen, the work of our judges and police officers, to doubt the vitality of the democratic system. the victims deserve all our efforts. and unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, i have not heard from them this afternoon.
madam president, i would like to address those colleagues who have been opposed to this compromise. we are concerned about the abuses, but we are also concerned about the lack of protection for citizens. since democratic society is made up of particular limitations and particular renunciations, i would like us to ask ourselves a question: how much individual freedom must be given up to guarantee fundamental rights, freedoms and collective security? i believe that the vast majority of citizens are prepared to give up some of their freedom for a certain period of time, provided that equality is not affected and that democratic control and the prosecution and punishment of possible abuses are guaranteed. there is no choice between safety and freedom. freedom without security is not. i know what i'm talking about, gentlemen. i've been living with escorts for 14 years. there is no way to be free if you can't take your kids to school, if you can't walk down the street, if you have to look under the car every day to be able to guarantee your daily life. freedom and security are part of democracy. ladies and gentlemen, i am not neutral. i'm passionate about human rights. that is why i ask you to support this directive and this compromise.
madam president, we are grateful that for the first time the council report mentions the work of parliament in the field of human rights, because this parliament does a lot. we also appreciate your coming to present it to this house. the socialist group has asked for this on many occasions. this will enable our own report to be better adapted to the monitoring and evaluation of their commitments. we have had enough of big words and big statements, because there are concrete facts which call for action and the fulfillment of the commitments we have made, such as the european initiative on human rights and democracy mentioned above. what does the council do with resolutions adopted in this parliament? three we have approved, with the one we will be approving this week on ethiopia. we have not received any response. what happened to guantanamo? what has been your action? many problems are arising from inaction, despite the serious human rights violations that are taking place. and so, i could cite other cases. it's better to say less and do more, because, if we say so much, they'll stop believing us. this parliament is working hard to make its voice heard, but to make its voice heard, we need you, and we need you to renew your commitment to european human rights policy, which is supposed to be a fundamental pillar of our external action. we're still waiting for a lot of answers.
mr president, i would like to start by referring to the last sentence spoken by commissioner reding, calling for consistency. i think this is the key: the key question and the key question. the tunisian case is not just any case. a few days ago we regretted - and this has been said - that in the assessment of the barcelona conference on the euro-mediterranean process, not enough progress had been made to move forward in the construction of a mediterranean area of respect for human rights and the promotion of peace. in the tunisian case, we are not faced with a lack of civil society. the problem is precisely that civil society is not allowed to express itself freely. and this is the fundamental aspect for me. if the european union wants to be consistent with this message, with this discourse, with this euro-mediterranean policy, it should not send a message of impunity in the face of the situations we have seen in recent days, especially during the world summit on the information society in tunisia, as well as in the processes of arrest of the various leaders of human rights organizations. i therefore believe that consistency is the fundamental issue that we must not forget in this debate.
mr president, mrs reding, historically, every time this directive has been discussed in the european parliament since 1984, there has been a tour de force between parliament and the commission. parliament has asked for the issue of pluralism to be dealt with in this directive and the commission has said on many occasions that this is a very sensitive issue and we dare not - to put it simply - to deal with it. in this directive, in preparation for the discussion we are going to have from now on in liverpool, an issue paper was entirely devoted to the question of pluralism, which is a matter of great concern. the commission has always maintained the thesis that when industry is liberalised, pluralism will automatically follow. but it's not true. it is not true because in the world of radio and television we are subject to a regime of administrative concessions and there is interference by the public authorities. mrs reding, i will tell you something that is happening in our country and has no precedent in the european union: 500 000 spanish citizens, more than half a million spanish citizens - something that has never happened in the european union, in any of its institutions - are supporting an initiative to ensure that a public authority, the government of the autonomous community of catalonia, does not close a radio station. you decide whether it's important and whether it's getting the attention of the public. with this precedent i ask you: will this directive, mrs reding, deal with the question of pluralism?
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking mrs hieronymi not only for the evaluation she has made here in a few minutes but also for her accompaniment over the two and a half years of preparation of the new legislation which is now on the table. thank you also for the nice words 'a fitness programme for the audiovisual media'. i think that's going to be a buzzword in the next few months. the strengthening of self-regulation is one means of implementing the directive. the directive is a legal framework. this framework must be implemented by national authorities, with the possibility either to go further than this framework in transposing into national law or to achieve implementation through controlled self-regulation, provided that there is the necessary acceptance among stakeholders. it is true that this is the first time that this terminology has appeared in a european legislative text. i think it is an important step in the right direction to put confidence in the professionals working on the ground. mr sifunakis asked me why he had been informed at the last minute. mr president of the committee on culture and education, i was informed that in the early afternoon the commission had accepted the proposals which i had read. today, it is an information of the parliament and not a debate. this one, i'm sure, will be intense. it will be a long one and i suppose it will start next year in the two committees concerned, the committee on culture and education and the committee on industry, research and energy. all that worked well in the 'television without frontiers' directive is reflected in the new directive. we are not talking about quotas, we are talking about quotas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the internet. the percentage for independent producers remains and consumer protection is strengthened, because we need well informed consumers who know what is waiting for them. so, consumer information, consumer protection against abuse remains and not only in traditional television, since the new services are concerned. mr herrero asked whether media pluralism was still guaranteed in a world where change was a daily occurrence. it is enough to read the newspapers of the whole of europe to be convinced of this: new concentrations are taking place, new divorces are being pronounced, new media are being created. with the passage to digital, there will be an explosion in the range of services offered to the public, not to mention new forms of video on demand. what's going on again tomorrow? the consumer will be faced with an enormous choice, a good way of developing pluralism: the more the consumer has the choice, the more pluralism will be developed. so we must do everything we can to support consumer choice. cultural diversity is also a very important element of pluralism and the fact that this cultural diversity is extended to new services is an important step in this direction. the european commission has published a report on the situation in the media sector. i had promised you a document which would serve as a basis for us to see together the commission and parliament in which direction we are going. it will be on the table at the beginning of next year. we shall then have the opportunity to discuss its content and any action that may be taken at european level.
i heard you. commissioner, you have the floor.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out to mrs gröner that the draft is available on the internet. it is thus open to members of parliament and to the public. mrs gröner is quite right, there will logically be two readings. so we'll have plenty of opportunities to talk about the contents of my draft. diversity is very important, and because it is important and i want european films, european television programmes to be seen on our television screens, on our mobile phones and on our computers, i will do everything possible to promote it. in some member states this is already happening. i take the austrian law on product placement as an example. it's a very reasonable law, and it works very well. you've been talking about advertising on children's programmes. i may not have been clear enough that product placement in children's programming will be out of the question. this is a step further than what is possible in many member states today. i want to protect the children in particular. mrs trüpel spoke of editorial independence. i am very concerned about this, and that is why i have also specifically referred to this editorial independence. the product placement does not include news programmes and current affairs. thus, health information is included in this definition.
(mr weber asked to speak) mr weber, i have given the floor to three members of the ppe group, three members of the socialist group and two members of the green group. so a perfect balance has been struck, mr weber. this is the end.
the next item is the question time (b6-0343/2005). the following questions were put to the commission:
member of the commission. competition law is not interested in pure sporting rules, only the economic activities connected with sporting events. i am the referee of the game of competition and not of the game itself. pure sporting rules are rules inherent to a sport or necessary for its organisation or for the organisation of a competition. these are not subject to the application of competition rules. as the commission’s decision regarding the uefa and dfb shows, it is perfectly possible to operate collective selling mechanisms that help provide solidarity payments and are compatible with competition rules. however, that means that collective selling must work to benefit fans and not just the clubs. many leagues seem to think their first responsibility is to find different ways to make their fans pay ever higher sums. that cannot be right.
member of the commission. the honourable member suggests that there is a connection between a meeting between the president of the commission and the spanish prime minister and the postponement of the commission’s decision on whether there was a community dimension to the proposed merger between gas natural and endesa from the agenda of 9 november. i can give the house a categorical assurance that there was no such link. in fact, given the highly complex legal, economic and accountancy issues raised by this case, the commission simply had not finished its analysis of the case in time for its meeting on 9 november. that was the reason, nothing more and nothing less. indeed, further information from the parties continued to be received by the commission over the weekend preceding the 9 november meeting of the college. honourable members will recall that the gas natural-endesa case was notified to the spanish competition authority. on 19 september, endesa referred the case to the commission for a decision on whether the case had a community dimension. on 15 november, the commission decided to reject endesa’s claim in favour of the community dimension of the proposed takeover bid. having respected essential due process requirements by allowing the two sides sufficient time to comment on each other’s submissions and having considered all the arguments put forward, the commission concluded that, under existing eu merger control rules and on the basis of endesa’s 2004 audited annual accounts, the proposed concentration does not have a community dimension and therefore falls outside the commission’s competence. the commission considers that its objectivity and its neutrality cannot be questioned by the fact that the spanish prime minister may have touched upon the issue of gas natural’s bid for endesa during a meeting with the president of the commission. i was not at the meeting. the president of the commission meets regularly with many eu heads of government, including the spanish prime minister, and discusses, as he told me, a wide range of issues with them. the commission is entitled and indeed required to listen to any opinion by interested parties from the private or public sector and examine all the aspects of a case before adopting any decision. the existence of different drafts is in no way exceptional or unique to this case. instead, it can simply be seen as part of the internal discussions carried out within the commission in order to assess the issues at stake from all relevant perspectives.
mr president, i appreciate the commissioner's reply, but when i listened to her, i had the impression that only technical matters were dealt with, when in reality this decision was surrounded by statements and attitudes which were far from normal before the two presidents met. you have not referred to the statement of the spanish government ministers, nor to the position of some commissioner who is incompetent in this matter, nor even to the request for exclusion made to you by the socialist group a week before the decision that you were not competent in these matters. with such an unusual and unusual background, the meeting you have just mentioned takes place on the sunday before the week of the decision. a meeting that is not public, that is opaque, that was known to the public through subsequent leaks, thanks to which we know that the takeover was discussed. commissioner, the formal aspect and the forms are of the utmost importance in our democracy, and you know the saying: 'the wife of caesar must not only be honourable, but must also appear to be so'. a government of the union must comply with community rules, but the first and foremost is that of common sense in the way this decision is taken. the commission cannot be strong with the weak and weak with the strong. you must give the impression that you are not only heads of cabinet in national governments; your strength lies in the independence and common sense of your decisions. i wonder if you've followed those rules.
member of the commission. that was an interesting last sentence from the honourable member – that you need to take decisions based on common sense. as commissioner for competition, i am used to taking decisions based on facts and figures, nothing more and nothing less; not common sense: just facts and figures. it was my responsibility to deal with this case and it is my responsibility to deal with any case if the facts and figures show that it is a case for the commission. i did not deny that the president of the commission and the prime minister of spain held a meeting. but i repeat that i was not influenced. in accordance with article 213 of the ec treaty, the members of the commission acted independently and in the general interests of the community in the performance of their duties. they neither sought nor took instruction from any government or any other body. i swore that i would behave like that and i swear that i will behave like that. i do my duty based on facts and figures and whatever the surrounding emotion, you can be sure that i will stick to my line.
commissioner, don't worry, your words are true. you have proved yourself to be a man of truth and i am very sorry that a fellow citizen of mine has questioned your honesty.
madam commissioner, without going into the substance of the matter, the facts are as follows: you are asking the college of commissioners for protection, which is an exceptional fact. the president of the commission goes to madrid on a secret trip and then you remove that item from the agenda of the college of commissioners, and the following week you have the college of commissioners decide on a question without much debate. and in the meantime, a colleague of yours from the european commission keeps making statements in spain, making sure in advance what the european commission's position was going to be. and i wonder, and i ask you, commissioner, whether you are aware that these events have led to a loss of credibility in a member state of the european commission as a guarantor of the community's interest.
the commission's vice-president yes, mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou, i have indeed said that we have set up a european action for people with reduced mobility, and as regards the other categories, i have mentioned large families, but i could just as well have mentioned young people and children. the member states obviously have some initiative in this area, since they can introduce advantages for these categories in their legislation. you will understand that we need to focus community intervention on major issues. the accessibility of transport modes for people with reduced mobility is a major challenge for the european union.
the commission's vice-president across europe, citizens increasingly consider mobility as a right. cities are very much affected by the increase in mobility. transport in cities has become a major problem. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the commission is striving to play an important role in the development of urban transport policy by promoting the exchange of good practice. the civitas programme is an innovative initiative that integrates transport, energy and environmental elements. the life and steer programmes are two other examples of financial support for several projects that are being implemented by cities for sustainable urban transport. we must go further, mr president, and that is why the commission has developed new initiatives. sustainable urban transport will be one of the priority themes of the research axis under the seventh framework programme for research and development. the next financial perspective 2007-13 should open up possibilities for funding through the cohesion fund. in addition, in order to boost the organisation of public transport, the commission adopted a revised proposal for a regulation on public passenger transport services by land. renewal of vehicle fleets can also contribute effectively to reducing impacts on urban air quality and public procurement could set an example. i am preparing a proposal for a directive to oblige public bodies to acquire a minimum quota of clean vehicles when they renew their fleets. finally, in its communication on air quality adopted on 21 september, the commission announced its intention to prepare a common framework for the designation of low emission zones. an integrated approach to the management of our cities, including urban transport, will be fostered by the next thematic strategy on the urban environment. the strategy, to be published in january 2006, will recommend that member states and local and regional authorities draw up sustainable urban transport plans. finally, we will use the updated white paper on transport policy to discuss all these issues: the place of the car in our cities, passenger rights, future applications of the galileo project, accessibility to public transport and improving road safety, especially for cyclists and pedestrians. you see, mr president, that your concerns are my concerns too.
the commission's vice-president i will be careful not to give you too precise a figure, mr president, because so far some 100 million euros have been invested through the framework programme for research and development, and the programme will continue under the seventh framework programme for research. i would also point out that the civitas programme has received substantial financial support from the commission to encourage the exchange of good practice. we shall also look at what policy of increased support we can adopt during the review of the white paper.
the commuter rail network is vital for sustainable urban transport in most european cities. but do you not think that with the liberalisation of railways, if an international passenger service is allowed to pick up and drop off passengers at two stations within the same member state, this could affect the economic balance and the viability of the commuter rail network?
the commission's vice-president the revised proposal which has been proposed by the commission on public service obligations answers your question, mr president, because it will be necessary to ensure that the opening up of international passenger transport to competition respects the public service missions which have been recognised by the public authority. there is a link between the text on the liberalization of international passenger transport and the text on public service obligations, which will prevent certain citizens, as you have just pointed out in your question, from being in a difficult situation because they cannot have the means of transport they need. i thank you for your question and i will make it clear that i will be careful to ensure that this liberalization respects the integrity of all services considered to be public.
the commission's vice-president this is a very sensible question, mr president, and we must have these integrated ticket offices. however, urban and inter-urban transport is really a matter of subsidiarity. what is needed is to encourage the exchange of good practice between our european cities in order to arrive at optimal solutions. thank you for raising this very important issue for our citizens.
questions 61 to 72 will be answered in writing. for questions which were not answered because of lack of time, see the annex on question time. question 73 is adjourned without the author being present.
member of the commission. i thank the honourable member for this important question. i will start with the earlier one related to the question of the euro region. should montenegro use the constitutional possibility of withdrawing from the state union, then the serbian and montenegrin authorities will need to ensure adequate bilateral cooperation, which is in the mutual interests of their citizens. that is particularly important for those living in the border areas such as sandžak, where the establishment of an international border could exacerbate the difficult economic situation. we have to contemplate different alternatives if there is either a referendum or a process that will lead to the independence of montenegro. the time is not yet right to answer this question more precisely. concerning your first question relating to investment and economic development, previous experience shows that there is significant capacity in sandžak for the implementation of projects that are geared towards peaceful conflict settlement and cross-border cooperation. the european agency for reconstruction will initiate, through a project to be implemented by undp, a set of mediators and associations in the region of sandžak, based on the already successful model implemented in bosnia and herzegovina. that project is part of the overall framework in support of an anti-discrimination framework in serbia and montenegro and will be carried out under the cards 2006 programme for the state union.
questions 76 to 82 will be answered in writing. for questions which were not answered because of lack of time, see the annex on question time.
mr president, given my inexperience in this parliament, i wanted to know, for information only, what the written answer you mentioned is based on, because one of the questions was asked by this member. is this a commission decision or is it a matter of regulation?
i'm here to satisfy your legitimate curiosity, mr. yanez. we are strictly applying the rules of procedure. that is to say, when questions to a commissioner exceed the time allotted, we move on to the next block and all the others must receive a written reply.
member of the commission. i am standing in for mr verheugen on this issue, but i know something about this because of my previous responsibilities in this field. the problem of a black market in medicinal products is very closely related to counterfeiting activities. counterfeit medicinal products, inside and outside the union, are a subject of ongoing concern in the eu, the council of europe and the world health organisation. part of the overall problem is that, recently, antiviral drugs have potentially been at risk in counterfeiting activities. the possibility that such drugs could be in short supply has become a concern for many people. the situation is naturally attractive to counterfeiters. over recent years, the commission has taken action to address this problem at a horizontal level, as regards intellectual property and customs actions. the legal framework has been changed, and indeed several times, in order to improve the enforcement of intellectual property rights and customs action. in september this year the council of europe published a survey report that provides an update on the extent of counterfeiting in the pharmaceutical sector. it is currently evaluating the possibility of further action based on that report. at the same time, the who has proposed a framework convention to combat counterfeit medicinal products at global level. the member states are responsible for the enforcement of any activities against counterfeiters. therefore, the member states are currently evaluating the results of a survey with the aim of identifying the extent of the problem of counterfeit medicines and the development of an anti-counterfeit strategy. while the abovementioned actions of the commission and the member states are far reaching, the commission continuously monitors and analyses the situation for possible legal implications within the european union and opportunities for future international cooperation.
member of the commission. i take due note of the point made by the honourable member. this is a very important issue which indeed has to be tackled both at eu level and at global level. i will convey your message to vice-president verheugen, who is responsible for this in the commission.
questions 84 to 126 will be answered in writing. for questions which have not been answered because of lack of time, see the annex on question time.
i'm afraid that's not possible. it is now after 8 p.m. and the commissioner is going to be late for an unavoidable appointment. i therefore call the end of question time. (the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
madam president, in order not to repeat what has been said by other colleagues, i would like to highlight a couple of collateral aspects. firstly, this directive is due to the profound imbalances in the transport system, where roads are gaining ground and are in danger of collapsing. in the meantime, there are other means of transport which are losing their share and volume, such as the freight railway. i believe that rail is a more sustainable and less polluting means of transport than lorries, and that it needs to be positively discriminated against until it can stand on its own. the freight railway is still subordinate to the passenger railway and its average speed is therefore not very competitive. more sections of goods-only roads need to be built and if we do this, we will achieve clear economic and environmental benefits in the medium term. the second aspect concerns the need to advance the interoperability of european toll systems. there are sections of our network where, in just over twenty-five kilometres, there are five motorway tolls, which adds avoidable congestion. we are still waiting for the commission's proposal for legislation on this. let's hope it doesn't take five years.
madam president, i sincerely congratulate mrs wortmann-kool on her tenacity and flexibility, which are the greatest virtues in reaching fair and balanced agreements such as the one she is presenting to us. i also congratulate the council and the british presidency on their dynamism and on the efforts made to bring the agreement to fruition. we would like to see the same kind of results in other areas as well. it is also fair to congratulate the commission and, if the commissioner, mr barrot, will allow me, i would like to congratulate in particular the director-general, mr lamoureux, who will leave us all very much orphaned and whom we wish to do justice for all that he has done. the fact is that europe's impressive transport achievements and advances are already well established. we thank you in a special way. as regards the euro coin, we welcome the political signal that it is breaking the taboo of external costs. it is a small step, it is true, but essential for the future. we look forward to the commission's study and hope that it will be credible and acceptable to all, including the peripheral countries, whose special circumstances and distances we hope will be taken into account. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i believe that disabled people with reduced mobility in the european union - something that almost everyone will experience sooner or later - have had the great fortune of meeting the labour rapporteur, robert evans, and the british presidency of the council, which has painstakingly - i will not say labour - managed to invite them on board without discrimination and with guarantees of ease. in close collaboration with the commission, which, it must be acknowledged, is carrying out an exemplary exercise to facilitate access for disabled people to all modes of transport - they have already done so for trains, now for airplanes, tomorrow for buses - they have succeeded in drawing up rigorous legislation, demanding but applicable, adapted also to the new circumstances of airports and companies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we have recently received a group of visitors from the european parliament, made up of blind and disabled people from the once, the leading spanish organization in this field, who acknowledged not only that they had actively participated in the debate with their views but that this experience had convinced them that the european parliament and the european union are serious about working for the citizens.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank you and all the honourable members for the close cooperation between parliament, through its committee on regional development and its rapporteur, mr koterec, and the commission on this important issue. in the new draft regional aid guidelines, two principles have been of fundamental importance. firstly, there is the need to provide a solid contribution to the cohesion policy of the union by ensuring the maximum possible coherence with the structural fund regulations. second, there is the need to implement the conclusions of successive european councils calling for less and better-targeted aid, following the general approach set out in the state aid action plan. i am confident that this reform, which is only a first step in our overall review of state aid rules, will constitute an important contribution to the achievement of the lisbon agenda and the restoration of european competitiveness, and will act as a driver for the virtuous circle of economic growth, better standards of living and more and better jobs. i look forward to the next stage of the wider debate: this is not the last evening that we will be discussing this issue. the next stage of the wider debate will come when parliament discusses the state aid action plan next year. it is in that context that i take note of several of the comments in the report relating to more wide-ranging issues, such as those mentioned by a couple of honourable members: block exemptions, the de minimis thresholds and the general rules applicable to small and medium-sized enterprises. i would also like to remind you that important amounts of aid to small and medium-sized enterprises may be granted anywhere, including outside the assisted areas. aid for research, for development, for training and for environmental protection is also available for large companies wherever they are located, subject to a number of conditions. the ‘statistical effect regions’ are regions with less than 75% of eu-15 gdp per capita but more than 75% of eu-25 average gdp per capita. de facto they go up to 82.2% eu-25 gdp per capita. under the draft guidelines these regions will benefit from article 87(3)(a) status and a 30% aid intensity for aid to large companies for the first part of the programming period as well as the possibility of granting operating aids. the situation of these regions will be subject to a mid-term review if their gdp has fallen below the 75% eu-25 gdp per capita. they will continue to benefit from article 87(3)(a) and from operating aid. otherwise they will be eligible under article 87(3)(c) with an aid intensity of 20% and they will benefit from transitional provisions. in particular they will be able to continue granting operating aid for two additional years. therefore, all statistical effect regions will continue to be eligible for regional aid for the whole programming period, either as article 87(3)(a) or as article 87(3)(c) regions. our discussions this evening and the amendments tabled to the motion for a resolution lead me to add three more specific points. firstly, it remains essential to focus regional aid on the neediest regions. that also means defining well balanced and distinctively shaded aid intensities. secondly, increasing the safety net would risk going against the principle of the exceptional nature of regional aid and might endanger the objective of giving the assisted regions a real boost compared to others. thirdly, there is a delicate balance to be struck between ensuring that investment remains in a region for the time necessary to contribute to development, and overly restrictive obligations on the investing companies, which would become a disincentive to investment. regional aid is de facto cofinanced by structural funds in new member states; old member states generally use their own budget. a cut in the financial perspective as well as an increase in population coverage would be anti-cohesion and i would like to underline that. i will close by simply noting that, on a subject as important as this, any reform can only be successful if it is built on a broad consensus amongst stakeholders. i welcome the fact that the european parliament is an active contributor in this. again i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr koterec, and the members of his team, for all their work.
ladies and gentlemen, the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council to be held in brussels on 15 and 16 december, including the development strategy. we welcome the president of the commission, mr barroso, here. unfortunately, we do not yet have any members of the council present, who must be finishing up the new british proposal.
thank you, mr watson. the fight will not be against a shadow at the moment, but against the vacuum, because we do not yet have the council representative present. instead, i've been told that he's on his way and there are traffic difficulties. so, i can assume that he'll be here in a few minutes. as for your request that the council refer in its speech to the new proposal which it is supposed to make public today, i must tell you that i asked the british presidency yesterday, during the farewell dinner to mark the end of its presidency, to do so, that parliament would not understand very well that a new proposal which is to be made public at noon today was not included in the debate, because it would certainly be a purely protocol and formal debate. i have not received any assurance but i have seen some understanding which i think will translate into practice at least an advance of what the presidency will explain later. if that were not the case, i think parliament would certainly have reason to feel unappreciated. i would also like to say that i do not think it is appropriate to suspend the sitting now, mr watson, since the minister will be with us shortly. i hope that the common sense and sense of humour which the british people are showing will help you in your speech to explain to us what is going to happen next.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i need hardly convince you that the european council tomorrow is a crucial step for europe. at hampton court, we identified the immediate challenges; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i shall come back to these prospects in a moment, but first let me say a few words on other important subjects which will be discussed at the european council. at hampton court we discussed how europe can prepare for globalisation. we agreed to relaunch our work in a number of areas, including research, universities, demography, energy, immigration, security and external relations. i will report to the european council on the work being done following the informal summit. in this context, i would like to draw your attention to a few key questions. yesterday, the commission adopted the final points of the review of its sustainable development strategy. the aim is to increase the ambition of the strategy by ensuring that it is implemented more effectively. the most important elements are: ensuring that all community policies are guided by the principles of sustainable development; a strong commitment to the objectives by providing for a regular meeting of our institutions to take stock and review member states' practices; the commission's proposal is to involve more systematically the main actors in sustainable development, not only the institutions but also the business community, which must make a significant effort, and, of course, the regional and local authorities. the commission will work closely with parliament and the council to prepare for this important step as best as possible. you can count on my personal commitment and that of the college. in this context, the success of the montreal conference is very good news. it shows that the leadership of the european commission and the european union on climate change has borne fruit. i come now to the question of growth and employment in the context of the new lisbon strategy. the commission is pleased to note that the renewed strategy for growth and jobs is now well under way. the national programmes that have been drawn up show that the new lisbon governance system is beginning to be integrated by the member states. i would like to make the following points at the outset: there is obviously a very close link between the economic challenges we identified at the informal summit and those identified by the member states in their national programmes. the commission will assume its full responsibilities in its report in january by explaining in a clear but constructive way the weaknesses and strengths of these national programmes. it will also be concerned to highlight good ideas and good practices that could be used by all. another important and very topical issue is that of immigration. the commission is determined to make progress in developing a cross-cutting approach to migration issues. this approach would be to treat immigration in the light of prosperity, solidarity and security in the european union, and this in close cooperation with the third countries concerned. it is in this spirit that the communication on an action programme on legal immigration, which the college is due to discuss next week, is being drawn up. the commission also welcomes the overall strategy against terrorism which should result from the next european council. the instruments recently proposed by the commission on information exchange, interoperability of databases or protection of critical infrastructures should be adopted and applied as soon as possible. we need these instruments very much to make our action more effective. this is again one of the areas where there is a clear european added value when we think about what europe can bring to action at national level. finally, i am very pleased that the three institutions have agreed on the initiative taken by the commission on the european consensus for development. as you know, it will also - we hope - be the subject of the conclusions of the european council. this european consensus for development defines, for the first time in 50 years of cooperation, a common set of values, principles, objectives and means for poverty eradication. with the adoption of the european parliament resolution on the european union declaration on development policy, this consensus has become a genuine european tripartite declaration on development. today, a development pact is being signed. now we need to translate the promises of more money and better target those promises into reality. the commission will actively ask member states to respect their commitments. we have made these commitments not only to each other but also to the united nations. once again, we are proud as europeans to be the global promoters of this issue, but now we must translate this ambition and these commitments into concrete action. i now want to talk about the main topic of this european council, the financial perspective. as you know, whenever i speak about financial matters i switch to english! i have been doing that for the last month, so i shall now continue in english. we all know what's at stake this week. this is an opportunity for europe to show its citizens that it is capable of deciding on tough issues, that it can meet their expectations and that it will stand by its values. the commission has set out its ideas. parliament has done the same. now we're waiting for the council. any further delay and implementation of our policies will be delayed. policies delayed are policies denied. i know that there are other technical options for keeping spending programs going, but let's be frank: these are temporary measures only. the europe of today needs greater security and ambition for its new priorities. the commission is playing its role. to unblock negotiations in october, i set out five proposals which have helped to kick-start discussions. on monday i set out to prime minister blair and other national leaders and to the president of this parliament principles and 12 specific proposals to reach what i believe can be an ambitious and fair agreement this week on the financial perspective. i welcome the support i have received within this house and among the member states for the commission's position. i want to set out today where the european council should focus its attention in the coming days. we need an ambitious europe. the hampton court summit showed the scale of the challenges before us and the role which the european union must play in meeting them. but we must be coherent. having defined the objectives, the member states must now provide the means to achieve them. to support enlargement, we need investment; to support reform and modernisation, we need investment; to increase trade liberalisation, we need investment. ambition is not realised through communiqués and great and grand statements. it needs action. and action needs means and instruments. europe's credibility is severely damaged when some do not put their money where their mouth is. a modern budget needs to recognise the realities of an enlarged europe, so it must support growth, with cohesion policy focused on competitiveness. it must support europeans adjusting to globalisation, immigration and the threats to security. it must avoid reversing recent reforms, such as the shift to rural development in agriculture, and it cannot downgrade the essential task of reconnecting with our citizens. heading 3b of the financial perspective is not an optional extra; it is of central importance to the union's work. there is another direct consequence of a tight budget. it makes it all the more essential that every euro be used to best effect, and seven years is a long time. we must not close the door to sensible adjustments in the future. with our original proposals, the emphasis parliament's resolution put on flexibility was prudent: at much lower levels it is indispensable. the european council must leave room for these issues to be debated within parliament and the council, as the two arms of the budgetary authority. the principle of flexibility should be carried through to the review clause. i said in june that this will be essential in reaching a deal. i remain convinced of that. we need a comprehensive, ambitious and open review clause. of course, any change must be agreed unanimously, but it is essential that this commission and this parliament have the opportunity to launch a genuine debate, without taboos, about the future of the european union's spending and resources. the budget also needs to be fair: fair in spending, but fair in contributions too. i think that we have come a long way in this respect, with a true recognition that the impact of enlargement on the budget has changed the situation. now we need one further step to ensure that the burden of that impact is genuinely shared. that means further movement from the british side on their abatement. that will be crucial to reaching an agreement. that change should be linked to enlargement and, since this enlargement is permanent, so should the change be permanent, just as it was when the united kingdom agreed changes to its abatement in 1988 and 1999. one aspect of last week's proposals which concerns the commission is the creation of parallel rules: one set for the europe of 15, one set for the rest. this creates a very unfortunate effect. a two-speed cohesion policy, with one set of rules focused on competitiveness and another on financial transfers, is not the way to build a competitive europe or a cohesive europe. we need to ensure the coherence of our instruments. if there is some differentiation - and in some cases we need differentiation - it should be based on objective criteria in terms of the relative development of the member states or the different regions, and not on those who were already members and new members. the european union we want to build is not the european union of old members and new members, it is a union of all members with exactly the same dignity, and that is a very important point. (applause) making exceptions and special arrangements not only undermines coherence, it creates new risks for financial management. as you know, we take our accountability to this house and to the public at large very seriously. we take seriously the fiscal pressure on the member states. the commission made great efforts to develop a package of measures which were simple and comprehensible and will allow high standards of control. alongside the revised financial regulation, they aim to make programmes more user-friendly and more efficient, so i regret that the principles of value for money and sound financial management seem to be sacrificed in order to achieve an agreement. the proposals on managing cohesion policy and voluntary modulation must be revised. sound management can also be undermined if cost-cutting takes the easy way out and targets administration. it is simply not credible to suddenly bring to an end the process of bringing our institutions up to speed with the last enlargement, and still less credible to make zero provision for bulgaria and romania. i have to tell you, very frankly, that i know it is very easy and popular i would say demagogic whenever there is a need to make some cuts, to make those cuts in the administration. but in the next financial perspective we have to accommodate bulgaria and romania in all the institutions: in the commission, in parliament, in all the rest. i have to say that we don't have the resources now for that. so, if you want to have bulgaria and romania, we should have this in our budget. (applause) i know that you share many of the concerns i have set out today. i know this because many of them echo your own resolution and your own comments. i welcome the parliament's position. it contains sound principles and imaginative solutions which can only make agreement more likely and results more effective. i am determined to do everything i can to help the european council reach agreement this week. i urge the presidency, with its special responsibility, and the member states to show the courage and determination to reach a deal which matches our ambitions. i fervently hope that when i address the conference of presidents next week our task will be to chart the path towards an interinstitutional agreement that will take europe into the next decade with real confidence. but we must do that with confidence and ambition. i myself, you in this house, and, i hope, all here today will always reject the narrow, nationalistic vision of a mini europe. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, let me begin by apologising to honourable members for the momentary delay in my arrival here from the airport this morning. let me also assure this house that i have listened with great care to the statement that we have just heard from the president of the commission and i look forward to the contributions of honourable members to this important and timely debate that we are having here today ahead of the european council. this week’s european council in brussels takes place at the end of a tumultuous year for the european union. it has been a year in which the voters of france and the netherlands rejected the draft constitutional treaty; a year in which the need for europe to face the realities of a globalised economy has become ever clearer; and most tragically, a year in which terrorism has once again struck in the streets and trains of a european capital. but europe has responded. we have developed a clearer sense of our common response to globalisation. we have shown a sheer determination, which mr schulz has been generous enough to acknowledge in previous debates in this chamber, in the face of terrorism which has reaffirmed the strength of our solidarity, our democratic values and our common resolve to see those values triumph. we have asserted europe’s truly global role and responsibility, whether it is in new york, in montreal last week, the gaza strip, or in aceh, indonesia. the united kingdom has been truly proud to hold the presidency of the council during these last six months. let me put on record, on this occasion, our gratitude to the members of this parliament for the cooperation they have shown in facing this challenging but shared agenda. the primary task facing the european council this week is both necessarily and appropriately to agree the financial perspectives of the european union for 2007-2013, to which the president of the commission directed the majority of his remarks this morning. it has always been one of the key challenges of our presidency. following the failure to reach political agreement last june, we listened to the calls of those, not least in the new member states, who underlined the importance of agreement being reached by the european council this year, and we have worked long and hard towards that end. the proposals we put on the table a week last monday, which were discussed by foreign ministers first in the informal conclave last week and then again briefly at the general affairs council this week, are challenging for member states – i acknowledge that – and so, too, will be the revised proposals which we will table later today. those revised proposals will be realistic, too, given the budgetary context in which most member states are now operating nationally. let me be candid: the room for negotiation is narrow. we remain convinced, on the basis of our extensive consultations with other member states, including at the level of heads of government over the last week when a number of heads of government came to london and there was a range of bilateral contact beyond london, that these proposals remain the best and only basis for agreement within the council and subsequent discussion with parliament. they are an important and necessary step in the direction of a modern, reformed budget, fit for the purposes of the 21st century, about which our prime minister spoke so eloquently on the eve of the british presidency at the european parliament. the review we propose to hold of all community expenditure in 2008 and 2009 offers us a chance to assess the global and domestic challenges which the union faces, where and how community action and spending can best add value to national and regional efforts, and how the resources to sustain that spending can be most fairly found. it is an important opportunity for us all, for this parliament, for the council and the commission and our european citizens, to consider the best way forward. amidst all the debate in the press and the media, let us keep our eyes on the very considerable prize before us: a budget that enshrines a fundamental shift of spending towards the new member states, eur 260 billion in receipts for the new member states over the next seven years, eur 2 500 for every man, woman and child. the economic dynamism of those new member states is already truly an inspiration for us all. the new flexibilities we have proposed for the structural and cohesion funds should ensure that more of the allocations to new member states can be spent and that each euro absorbed by member states, their regions and their cities can have more impact. this will deliver greater improvements in the infrastructure and skills which this union collectively will need if it is to rise to the global economic challenge and if it is to deliver the social justice which all of our people rightly demand. future financing lies at the heart of this week’s european council, but it is not the only issue, so let me briefly touch on other points to be discussed by our heads of government this week. first, there is the follow-up to the october informal heads of government meeting at hampton court. at the summit we agreed to make more concrete progress in a series of key areas: boosting research and development with the creation of a european research council; improving our universities and their links with business; creating a more competitive energy market; examining how migration can boost our economy; how we can use more extensive and better quality child care to give people a fairer balance between work and family life; how we can re-skill workers to meet the global challenge, and how we can strengthen europe’s place in the world and our collective security. president barroso and high representative solana will report back to heads of government on the progress made and on the next steps. let me pay tribute to the work that they have already done and the close cooperation they have offered on those and so many other issues in the course of our presidency. secondly, there is the issue of economic reform. here we continue to work closely with the commission in pursuing the jobs and growth agenda for europe. this has borne fruit these last few months with the launch of the lisbon national reform programmes, setting a forward-looking agenda of reforms for every member state. the summit will welcome this progress, as well as the significant steps taken already on the issue of better regulation. that includes simplifying european union legislation, both for citizens and for european businesses, and underlining our common responsibility as council, commission and parliament to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens. thirdly, we will adopt a europe-wide counter-terrorism strategy, creating a clear and coherent framework for the european union’s work on counter-terrorism and setting out concrete objectives for action. the strategy enhances the european union’s work to prevent people turning to terrorism. we will adopt an action plan to tackle radicalisation and recruitment by terrorist organisations. it will work to protect further the european union citizens and infrastructure. we will put in place a programme for protecting critical infrastructure right across europe from terrorist attack. it improves the european union’s efforts to disrupt terrorists and their terrorist networks, in particular combating terrorist financing. the strategy will help the european union build its ability to respond to a terrorist attack by improving our crisis management capability and coordination. the council hopes that we will have reached agreement on the measure on data retention, on which we have worked very closely and effectively with this parliament in recent days and months. next, the summit will set out a global approach to migration. this is an approach that learns the lessons of the events of the last few months and is informed by the discussions we had here in the plenary debate in october. it focuses on the problems of africa and the mediterranean but does not exclude the important and necessary cooperation which we need to foster with other regions. it identifies priority actions for the union to take so as better to help countries of origin and transit to manage migration better and to combat illegal immigration. fifthly, let me highlight the regular report on european security and defence policy to the council. the report will register the difference our european missions are already making on the ground, including the two latest missions: in aceh – our first in asia – and on the rafah border crossing in gaza, a practical manifestation of the union’s longstanding commitment to the lives and freedoms of the palestinian people. the european council is also expected to adopt an overarching declaration on that area of the world – the middle east. this will renew our commitment to a secure, prosperous and peaceful middle east, as well as our efforts to support political, social and economic reform within that region. the declaration will reflect what the european union has achieved over the course of our presidency: the first ever euromed summit in november, which has set the agenda for our future relations with our southern mediterranean neighbours, support for disengagement from gaza, building palestinian institutional and security capacity, launching the european union border assistance mission to rafah and increased european union engagement with iraq. but it will also set out the continued challenges that we face in that region: the search for peace between israel and its neighbours, the political processes within iraq and lebanon, iran’s nuclear programme – a subject that we have debated here in this chamber – and ending support for groups that use violence. let me just pause here to note that the presidency has been unequivocal in its condemnation of the comments attributed to president ahmadinejad of iran which relate to israel, firstly saying that israel should ‘be wiped off the map’ and then denying the holocaust and calling for israel to be removed to europe. the comments are wholly unacceptable and we condemn them unreservedly. they have no place in civilised political debate. finally, heads of state and government will also adopt a comprehensive global strategy for africa, tackling peace and security, governance, regional integration, trade and development assistance. it will refocus the union’s relationship with africa to cover the whole continent. it will be a fitting end to a year in which the continent has taken centre stage in the european union and internationally, and in which we have seen extraordinary popular calls for change throughout europe to make poverty history. the european consensus on development is the second theme of today’s debate. it is right that we should return to the subject of development as we approach the end of this year and the end of this presidency. over the course of the year the european union – already the largest provider of global aid – has again demonstrated the leading role which it plays in this area of work. the european union set the tone for the millennium review summit with its commitment from the international development ministers to increase aid back in june, a decision that was then ratified by ecofin. as the consensus on development shows, however, this is not the time for us to rest on our laurels: we must not only spend the money but also spend that money well. this tripartite declaration sets out the aims and principles guiding european union development cooperation efforts. the first part is a political declaration that sets out common objectives, principles and methods for delivering development cooperation at both member state and community level. the second part guides the implementation of development aid at community level. the council and the commission agreed the consensus on 22 november, following extensive discussions between all relevant european union institutions and after consultation with other key stakeholders, including european civil society. we hope parliament will agree to this today so that it can be a truly joint tripartite declaration. the presidency would like to extend particular thanks to the rapporteur, mr wijkman, for his commendable efforts to ensure parliament’s substantive and constructive input to this important text. this agreement would be the first time we would have a common european union approach to development, which will guide the actions of the community and all 25 member states. the consensus focuses squarely on poverty eradication to help meet the millennium development goals, on partner country ownership, on ensuring we provide more effective aid and on joined-up policies to promote development. this agreement is particularly important, given that the european union already provides over half of all global aid and is set to provide two thirds of aid by 2015 on the basis of the commitments that have now been made. the consensus also sets out a revised ec development policy which clarifies the commission’s role and establishes where it adds value. it ensures that we give priority to the poorest countries and that we take into account development objectives in all other policy-making that affects developing countries. the consensus is an important political statement, against which all parties can be held to account. i hope that it will receive your support. this will, frankly, be an important but difficult european council, but, approached with flexibility and vision, we can make significant progress on some of the most important issues facing the union and set the scene for further work by our austrian and finnish colleagues in the coming year. i will listen with great interest to the points that you make and ensure that they are narrated back ahead of what will be important discussions in brussels towards the end of this week. (applause)
as you know, mr minister, the purpose of this plenary session is to prepare the european council which will take place this weekend. the presidency must regret that you have missed an opportunity to inform parliament of the proposal you are about to make. (loud and prolonged applause) i asked your minister for parliamentary relations to do so yesterday, and i think it is a pity that this request has not been heeded, which undoubtedly reduces the significance of this debate. i regret that i did not heed the proposal you made at the beginning of this sitting, mr watson.
thank you, mr. schulz, the house services will be checking the exact coordinates of the iceberg that sank the titanic to make sure it was one-zero-three.
mr president, i too regret that the president-in-office of the council has come to say nothing, but allow me to make the following remarks and ask the council some questions, to see if we can get some clarification from it. firstly, the preamble to the council proposal of 5 december states that the financial perspective must provide the financial means to meet the internal and external challenges of the european union. do you really believe that the challenges of the union can be met with fewer and fewer resources? secondly, you - although you are not the only ones - have spoken out with good reasons, but also with demagogic reasons, against the cap, but at the end of the day, you will continue to cut the part of the cap devoted to rural development: the most modern, the most rational and the most defensible part of agricultural expenditure. thirdly, we all applauded the british prime minister when he said in this parliament that he wanted a modern budget for europe, and we hoped that this would include an increase in the appropriations for achieving this europe of excellence. is it a vain hope? will it change its first proposal, which meant a 40% cut in relation to the commission? fourthly, the ugly duckling of the community budget: external action. all the foreign ministers are filled with promises about the needs of third countries in the developing world, or to alleviate natural disasters, and not so natural as famine. then uncle paco will come with the sales, as always. it means that we give to one what we take from the other. fifthly, you have assumed that an agreement was not reached last june because the financial perspectives were too generous. will they continue to listen to the part of their colleagues who believe that the smaller the european budget, the better? unfortunately, many countries are happy that the european budget is getting smaller every year; for some, it was even the only positive aspect of their first proposal. will the council be able to win the idea of trying to stop the construction of europe with the philosophy of less budget, less europe? in parliament, however, let it be very clear, we want to move forward in the construction of europe. we do not think that it has gone too far and that it is better for each country to manage as it can from now on. this is the great obstacle between the council and parliament. it is not going to be a matter of a few million euros more or less. we shall see where the financial perspectives proposed by the european council take us. sixthly, we saw that the only thing they could think of to propose on the contentious issue of the union's revenue, or own resources, was a series of shenanigans to satisfy their partners in the harassment and destruction of the community budget. do you want us to go back to national contributions? finally, in the face of an attack on the union's own resources system, parliament has only the right to protest, according to the treaties; but, nevertheless, you know this and make it very clear, the existence of financial perspectives does depend on parliament. do not forget that, and do not be so sure that we are going to do what the council has the right to demand.
mr president, mr minister, almost 20 years ago, with the single act, when we opened our frontiers to create a european economic area, we also decided to put in place a series of financial mechanisms to help the least developed countries to adapt their economic structures to free competition. and since then, cohesion has become a fundamental pillar of europe, consolidated in the financial perspectives negotiated in 1992 and 1999. the results of that policy have been extraordinary. as minister straw acknowledged a few days ago when he presented the british presidency's proposal, there has been a similar increase in trade flows to the benefit of the more developed member states and in such a way that it is perfectly demonstrable that the budget deficit with the european union of the net contributors corresponds to the trade surpluses of these same countries in relation to those of cohesion. it is therefore clear that cohesion policy - arguably the most effective of all community policies - benefits all the countries of the european union, allowing, in a relatively short time, the real convergence of the most rejected territories. the british presidency, mr minister, is breaking that principle of cohesion, which means that the financial costs of enlargement are being passed on to the less developed territories of the european union, even though the richest are the ones who benefit most from enlargement. the council must therefore be very conscious of the fact that, in keeping with what was agreed in the european parliament's plenary, it does not have the requisite parliamentary support for a proposal such as the one put forward by the british presidency so far. and if the council approves it, i will certainly do everything in my power to get parliament to vote it down.
mr president, the structure of the debate is very confusing, because it confuses the council meeting on thursday with the european consensus on development. the misunderstanding probably explains why mr barroso has not said a word about the latter, although mr alexander has referred to it. that is what i want to say on behalf of the socialist group. we are very pleased with the european consensus on development, but we are also concerned about it. i am pleased with the process followed in drawing up the declaration; i am pleased with the initiative of the commission and commissioner louis michel to produce a document which goes beyond the one of the year 2000; and i am also pleased with the determined involvement of the british presidency and minister hilary benn in this operation. the flexibility of the commission and the council in reaching a final consensus text is to be commended. the presidency has been remarkably persistent in persuading the other 24 governments, some of which were initially very reluctant, to accept the compromise which was taking shape. a significant change was the willingness of the commission and the council to involve parliament in the signing and, earlier, in the process leading to the drafting of the declaration defining the union's development policy for the coming years. our participation, through anders wijkman and followed by all the groups in the committee on development, has been effective; it was essential that we act with firmness and unity. the declaration thus contains the main points of our approach. this declaration should give political impetus to the commitments which were made a few months ago at the proposal of the council of development ministers and which are a major step forward in the efforts of the union and its member states to overcome underdevelopment and its consequences for the peoples who suffer from it. finally, we could talk about consistency with the provisions of the european constitution which sets out, as a notable priority, the responsibilities of the union in the field of solidarity with the south. we could speak of consistency if it were not for other major inconsistencies, the source of the concern mentioned above: the announcements of the financial perspectives by the british presidency itself, in an exercise of disconcerting schizophrenia, are incompatible with the budgetary commitments made since the leeds council and with the actions envisaged in the declaration under discussion today. hence our unease about all this is in expectations that are born to be disappointed. and that is why my group should make it clear that we will not accept such a horizon and will mobilize so that the hope that is being aroused here today is not destroyed when the resources available for the coming years are approved. i congratulate you all today, but i can already tell you that there is a whole dynamic of resistance if one hand tries to take away tomorrow what is given today with the other.
president of the commission. mr president, with all due respect, this happens almost every time i sum up a debate! it is better that members of parliament are coming in, rather than going out when i start to speak, but, if i may make a suggestion, maybe it would be a good idea in future to come up with another system to avoid disruptions to debates directly preceding the vote. je vais continuer, mais je crois qu'il serait important d'examiner cette question, il s'agit aussi de respect entre nos institutions. j'ai déjà dit, avec tout le respect que je vous dois, que lorsque le président d'une autre institution s'exprime devant cette assemblée, il a le droit d'être écouté en silence. (applaudissements) (s'adressant à m. schulz qui l'interpelle)oui, monsieur schulz, vous avez raison, pas écouté en silence, mais avec attention, avec la même attention que je vous ai témoignée à toutes et tous, mesdames et messieurs les députés. j'aimerais vous dire, mesdames et messieurs, que j'ai ressenti ici, tout au long du débat ce matin, une inquiétude très sérieuse et je suis sûr que le ministre alexander fera part à son gouvernement et à la présidence de cette inquiétude qui vient de pratiquement toutes les forces politiques du parlement. une inquiétude face au manque d'ambition qui pourrait hypothéquer la modernisation des économies, une inquiétude face au risque d'une europe à deux vitesses, d'une europe divisée, une inquiétude sur la capacité de l'union à se doter des moyens propres à lui permettre de remporter la bataille de la mondialisation et donc celle de l'emploi et du bien-être des citoyens européens. ces inquiétudes, vous le savez, sont aussi les miennes, et celles de la commission, et j'en ferai part de façon très claire au conseil européen de demain. mais la messe n'est pas encore dite, et le temps du bilan viendra. demain, nous devrons avoir un seul objectif: parvenir à un accord. pas n'importe quel accord, bien sûr, mais un accord qui ouvre de réelles perspectives – et pas simplement des perspectives financières –, mais des perspectives politiques pour la construction de l'europe. un accord qui ouvre la voie à une négociation constructive avec votre parlement et à la conclusion d'un bon accord interinstitutionnel car – faut-il le rappeler? – , il nous faut l'accord des trois institutions. bref, un accord qui témoigne, vis-à-vis des citoyens et de l'europe, de notre sens des responsabilités et qui donnera aux citoyens et aux citoyennes des raisons de croire en cette europe, qu'ils continuent à appeler majoritairement de leurs vœux. i would now like to address the british presidency with all due respect, friendship and frankness. first of all, i would like to congratulate you, because of what you have achieved during this debate: getting mr schulz to speak such good english was a real achievement by the british presidency. (applause)i hope, however, that this will not be the highlight of the british presidency ...(laughter)and that we will have a major success in the council tomorrow and afterwards. we sincerely hope for more. how can this be achieved? that is the problem. does it not concern the british presidency that the overwhelming majority of this house and the most relevant political groups unanimously reject your proposal? (applause)does the opinion of this house and the members of parliament who were directly elected by our citizens mean nothing, or mean so little, to the presidency of the council? i hope the conclusions of this debate are important for your final negotiating position in the council. and, does it not concern the british presidency that the strongest supporters of your proposal in this chamber are those who hold a narrow-minded, nationalistic, backward-looking vision of europe? (loud applause)is it not strange that there is such a contradiction between the forward-looking, modern, open, competitive view of europe expressed by mr blair, and the lack of ambition of the british presidency proposal in terms of financial assurance? (applause)so, with all due respect, frankness and friendship, i say to the presidency of the council that we have to avoid this disconnection between the policy objectives on energy, security, immigration, research and universities that are supported by the presidency – and were so well expressed at hampton court – and the resistance to providing the means to achieve them. we must have the courage to explain this to the whole public in europe – including, of course, the british public. if we want an enlarged europe, we need investment. if we want a modern, reformist, competitive europe, we need investment. if we want an open europe in terms of global trade, we need investment. let me tell you very frankly that i am concerned about this. president-in-office, you mentioned the world trade talks. i really think that, if we do not have a good deal in the european council, this could undermine the goals for the global talks. why? let us be frank: in the european union there are several opinions about the world trade talks. there are those who are more in favour, who take a more affirmative position on trade, and those who are more ‘prudent’ or resistant to it. some of the less-developed regions of europe and the countries that have some structural problems will not support open, ambitious world trade talks if there is not good investment in these countries’ social and economic development. (applause)i want the british presidency, the member states and the council to think strategically, not only from the point of view of an accountant but also from a political point of view, and consider whether no deal or a bad deal on the budget will not put some fundamental strategic objectives – such as the world trade talks, an open europe and an enlarged europe – at risk. already we can hear people saying that, with this kind of ambition with regard to the financial perspective, there is no provision for further enlargements of the european union. therefore, the issue we shall be discussing tomorrow is very important. it is not just about the financial perspective. it is about the budget, but it is more than that. it is the kind of vision we have for europe: whether you envisage an ambitious open and reformist europe – an enlarged europe, or a mini-europe: a europe that does not fulfil the goals that the citizens of europe want. (loud applause)on the subject of the british rebate, let us be clear: we understand the british position. mr blair said: ‘the rebate is an anomaly’. however, at the same time he said that he is ready to discuss the general question of the rebate when there is a discussion on the reform of the budget. that is why i believe it is important to have a real discussion about the future of our budget, without taboos, looking at everything, the expenditure and the resources. our discussions and the proposals made by various member states are not about the existence of the rebate; it is the size of the increase of the rebate that is the problem. should the british rebate grow by 60% at the expense of the poorest members of the union? i think not – that is not fair. (applause)it is my duty and the duty of the commission to represent the general interest of europe, particularly those member states who have just joined our union. they want to see the solidarity of the european union. if the european institutions do not send signals of solidarity to the new members, they might be tempted to think that the european union that they have joined is not the european union of solidarity that we daily endeavour to build. (applause)i believe a deal is possible. it is difficult but it is possible. i would just like to mention again what i believe are the minimum conditions for a deal that will also be accepted by the commission and parliament, because parliament will also have a say on this. the first point is a higher level of spending. the second point is a fairer deal for the new member states in terms of solidarity, giving them an opportunity to show whether or not they are able to spend the money, not starting from the position that they are not able to invest in their own development. the third point is the adaptation of the british rebate to meet the conditions of enlargement. that is all the commission is asking, and we believe it is fair and reasonable. from all the contacts that we have had with all member states, we believe this can be accepted. a fourth condition is a real review clause that will enable the commission, parliament and the council to look at the budget in good time. it is true we have a problem with the budget. however, we should not be paralysed by it; we should approve the budget for the next seven years but at the same time give ourselves time to look at it in terms of expenditure and resources. we should have a real debate about what we want from the european institutions, what we want in terms of competitiveness, what we want in terms of solidarity. this should be a real review clause, not just a cosmetic review clause, so we have a true debate in europe about the instruments to fulfil our objectives. finally, i believe it is important for the council to take on board at least some, if not all, of parliament’s very good suggestions concerning flexibility, for instance the globalisation adjustment fund – a typical flexibility instrument – and other good suggestions by parliament for the new interinstitutional agreement. when we discuss the budget it will only be fair to take on board the suggestions that were put in a very responsible way in the debate in parliament. if these conditions are met, if there is a significant move on the points i have just mentioned, i believe a deal is possible and necessary. i know it is difficult and will require a lot of statesmanship by all the members of the council and all the heads of state and government present. i believe a deal is important. it is my duty and the duty of the commission to protect the general interest of the european union. i can promise you that tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, we will put forward in the european council this vision of a europe that has ambition and a european that is committed to the goals of solidarity. because without solidarity there is no union. (loud and sustained applause)
thank you very much, mr barroso. i was receiving the sakharov prize winners, but the sound of the applause for mr barroso was so loud that i had to come running to the plenary to see what was happening, because it is not normal for mr barroso to receive so much applause and so much applause. you know that if there are no changes in the programme, mr blair, the president-in-office of the council, will come to strasbourg tomorrow to meet the conference of presidents and explain to us his proposal to the council which the minister representing the british presidency has not been able or has not wanted to explain today. the political groups and you too, mr barroso, have made your views very clear. i just want to give you a warning: let's not devalue words. what is unacceptable must not be accepted, otherwise what is declared unacceptable today and accepted tomorrow can be a boomerang that turns applause into whistling. (applause) certainly, the boundary between acceptable and unacceptable cannot be a hundredth of a beep. we are therefore putting an end to this debate and thanking everyone for their participation. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
i now wish to greet a delegation from the central american parliament in the official gallery. (loud applause) i would also like to congratulate its president, mr julio palacios, on his election as president of this institution which was born of the esquipulas agreements, which ended years of civil war in several central american countries. i would like to congratulate you, mr president.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
the voting is closed.
ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to welcome, on behalf of all of you, on behalf of all of us, the two winners of the 2005 sakharov prize awarded by the european parliament and the representative of the third winner. in fact, despite all the efforts made up to the last moment, unfortunately the ladies in white have not been allowed to leave cuba to be with us today. i think i can speak for the whole of the european parliament in deploring and rejecting this attitude on the part of the cuban authorities. (applause) at this solemn occasion, i would like to remember the 'ladies in white' and the reasons why they have been honoured by the european parliament. unfortunately, this is not the first time that this has happened, neither nelson mandela, nor aung san suu kyi, nor leyla zana, nor wei jingshen could come to collect their award on their day. their representatives came here to do it. and when they were able to do so, and some of them still haven't been able to do so because they are still in detention, they came to the house and we met specifically to listen to them. this was the case with nelson mandela and, more recently, leyla zana. we shall therefore continue to exert all the pressure on the cuban authorities to enable them to come, and when they do we shall organise, as we have done on other occasions, a solemn sitting so that they can address our house and we shall do our utmost to ensure that this happens as soon as possible. (applause) all of this year's laureates have in common their struggle for freedom and human dignity. they are worthy successors to the soviet academic who gives his name to the prize awarded by the european parliament. the three, each in its own way, symbolize the struggle for the affirmation of human rights in the world. the struggle against regimes that imprison critics who dare to criticize them. the fight against inhuman laws. the fight against those who deny the right to information and against the terrorists who want to plunge the right to information into darkness. the european parliament has supported our laureates this year through its resolutions and initiatives. they are well known to us. we've followed their work, we've followed their struggle. their presence here is only the end of a process which we have shared through our resolutions. it's a fight for a more democratic and fairer world. let me say from this high podium that many europeans consider the right to respect for human rights to be something natural, something intrinsic, something that is practically free and has always been so. no, it has not always been this way, nor is it still so, unfortunately, in many parts of the world. for the vast majority of mankind it is still a distant dream. and that is why we europeans have a special responsibility to defend and promote human rights throughout the world. let me give you a brief glossary of our laureates: the 'ladies in white' are represented by mrs blanca reyes, who was also 'lady in white' until, fortunately for her, she was no longer 'lady in white' because her husband was released, whom i had the pleasure of receiving on her behalf in this parliament immediately after he was released from prison. these ladies have been demonstrating peacefully every week of the year in havana, to express their solidarity with imprisoned family and friends, since march 2003. in a way they are also the continuators of the phenomenon that was known in their day as the mothers of the plaza de mayo who were also awarded by us. the crime of many of these prisoners, of these prisoners, is nothing more than to express publicly their opposition to power as simple citizens, as independent journalists or as peaceful dissidents. many of them have fallen seriously ill during their detention in conditions that, no doubt, mrs reyes will explain to us. we called for the release of these prisoners in april 2004 and unfortunately there is still a long way to go, despite some isolated cases. the experience of many european countries teaches us that the transition to democracy, a peaceful transition to democracy, is not prepared precisely by imprisoning dissidents, but quite the opposite. i hope that the transition to democracy in cuba will take good note of the experience of some european countries. ms hauwa ibrahim: you have put your talents as a lawyer at the service of the rule of law. its strength, as you told me when you received it this morning, is respect for the law. we admire your determination. in this vast country of nigeria, you stand up for people who live under the threat of cruel and inhuman punishment. penalties applied under the sharia in twelve states of his country. you fight for these people's right to a fair trial, according to the law. we have followed, believe me, with indignant emotion the trials initiated against amina lawal and safya hussaini, accused of adultery. you made the law triumph by demanding respect for the constitution and international treaties signed by nigeria. it is inconceivable that a woman accused of adultery can still be stoned to death. it is inconceivable that a woman accused of adultery can be stoned to death as in biblical times. this parliament has repeatedly spoken out strongly against these inhuman punishments and against the death penalty. mrs. ibrahim: we are your allies in the rejection of this cruelty and we will be uncompromising in this rejection. we admire your personal commitment. the personal commitment you express with strong conviction: the right to education of the poor, especially women, because poverty is especially common among women. you are an example to all nigerian women who want to get out of poverty and ignorance. we also welcome robert ménard, a friend of this house, secretary general of reporters without borders, and with him, all the journalists. to professionals who breathe life into freedom of information, who open our eyes to a cruel world. there can be no democracy without a plural information. democracy is a system that has information as its raw material, as its primary fuel. without it there can be no democracy. we pay tribute to those who fight to make this principle a reality every day, in every part of the world. to those who too often fall victim to passionate dedication to their profession. unfortunately, too often they fall victim to passionate dedication to their profession. a few weeks ago, robert ménard was refused permission to attend the information summit in tunisia. the tunisian authorities were no doubt afraid of his testimony. it is paradoxical that this should happen precisely when we are talking about the right of access to free information for all. let me remind you that in 2005, which is now ending, 58 journalists lost their lives, one every week of the year, every seven days a journalist dies in the line of duty. in 2004, there were 53. unfortunately, the number is increasing. i want to pay tribute to all of them today, and to all their comrades who are imprisoned or missing. this parliament has been and will always be mobilized in your favour. because dictatorships do not last forever. some last a long time, too long, but they don't last forever. (applause) nor will the terrorists, by their cruel acts, succeed in suppressing freedom of information, which is the essential foundation of our democratic life. in conclusion, before i give the floor to our laureates and their representative, i would like to put voltaire and brecht together in one quote. two intellectuals separated by many years. one who opened the lights and one who suffered the darkness. voltaire and brecht both agree on an expression, which i would not know very well to whom to attribute priority. they said it at different times and in different places and from different situations. i insist, one opening the light and one enduring the darkness. both said that freedom of speech is the only right that separates freedom from tyranny. and to not accept it is to condemn the human being to disgrace. congratulations to our laureates for the courage they have shown. voltaire and brecht are watching us. thank you very much. mrs. blanca reyes, you have the floor.
member of the commission. mr president, i am glad to address the house again as regards the preparations of bulgaria and romania for accession to the union. much has happened in the past year. negotiations were completed at the end of 2004, and parliament gave its assent to the accession of bulgaria and romania, after which the accession treaty was signed in april. currently, the treaty is being ratified in the member states. our focus, in the commission and, i trust, in the other institutions, such as parliament, is now firmly on encouraging and supporting bulgaria and romania to successfully complete all necessary preparations for accession. neither country should spare any effort or time in completing the challenging work still to be done on the domestic front. i welcome the active part played by the european parliament and its committee on foreign affairs and the reports prepared by mr moscovici and mr van orden, which highlight the strong and weak points relating to the progress of both countries to date. as you have seen from the commission’s comprehensive monitoring reports, which i presented to you on 25 october, our assessment is broadly the same: both bulgaria and romania meet the political criteria. at the same time, they need to make further efforts, in particular to strengthen the rule of law, to improve public administration and the justice system, to fight corruption and to protect vulnerable groups effectively. structural economic reforms need to be continued in both countries for them to meet the economic criteria for membership fully. as regards the eu acquis, both bulgaria and romania have continued to make progress in adopting and implementing eu legislation. they have reached a considerable degree of alignment 13 months before their envisaged accession on 1 january 2007. nevertheless, in some areas there are still serious shortcomings in preparations and, in general, more attention needs to be paid to effective implementation and enforcement of the legislation. so, it is far from plain sailing for the moment. bulgaria and romania still have a lot more to do and it is important that we, together – parliament, the member states and the commission – keep reminding both countries to stay focused on the significant internal work still to be done. on 7 november, i sent a letter to both foreign ministers kalfin and ungureanu, in which i urged bulgaria and romania to take immediate and decisive action to address the gaps and shortcomings in their preparations. as regards the remaining issues in bulgaria and romania’s preparations, the commission will continue both to monitor and support them intensively up to accession. i welcome parliament’s help and efforts in this regard. our next rendezvous on this topic will be to discuss a report focusing on the actions taken by bulgaria and romania to address the main remaining shortcomings that were identified in october’s comprehensive monitoring report. the commission intends to present this report to parliament and to the council in may 2006. at that moment, the commission may recommend that the council postpone accession until 1 january 2008, if there is a serious risk of either country being manifestly unprepared to meet the requirements of membership by january 2007 in a number of important areas. as president barroso promised earlier this year, and in the spirit of our discussions in april to create an extended assent procedure, the commission will use its regular dialogue with the european parliament and will listen to parliament’s views on the possible use of the postponement clause. the commission would seriously consider these views before issuing any recommendation to associate fully the european parliament in any possible decision to postpone accession. i am ready to meet the foreign affairs committee in the course of the spring, for instance in april, to exchange views on the situation then in bulgaria and romania. let me conclude by thanking the european parliament for its constructive and balanced approach towards bulgaria and romania’s accession to the european union. this has again been illustrated in the very sound, solid reports from mr moscovici and mr van orden. the commission always welcomes the strong commitment of parliament in the accession process and its close follow-up of developments in bulgaria and romania. i trust that together we will complete the fifth enlargement round and make a success of it.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, let me begin by paying generous tribute to the work of both mr van orden and mr moscovici for their work on these dossiers as rapporteurs and also by saying what a particular pleasure it is to follow commissioner rehn, who has been a dedicated and effective advocate of taking forward the work both for bulgaria and romania’s accession. i warmly welcome this debate today, which is held at an important juncture in bulgaria and romania’s accession processes. from previous exchanges with honourable members, i know that this parliament maintains a close and detailed interest in both countries’ european union preparations and wider enlargement issues. i look forward to a stimulating and thought-provoking discussion this afternoon. the december 2004 european council concluded that both bulgaria and romania will be able to assume all the obligations of membership from january 2007, provided they both continue with efforts to implement the necessary reforms and commitments undertaken in the acquis. the june 2005 european council reiterated these conclusions and welcomed the signing of bulgaria and romania’s accession treaty in luxembourg on 25 april. as the council noted, this marked a further important step towards accession, and it was a step firmly supported by this parliament when it voted to approve the signing of the treaty. it is not difficult to see why the european parliament and the council have supported romania and bulgaria’s european union aspirations. the prospect of eu membership has acted as a major lever for reform already. since they started on the path to eu membership, both bulgaria and romania have implemented far-reaching political and economic changes. living conditions and economic opportunities have improved. in the space of only 16 years, two dictatorships have been supplanted, i am glad to say, with democracies. these are substantial achievements by any measure and we should credit those who have worked so hard to bring them forward. the stage is now set for full membership, something that will bring us much closer to healing the artificial division of europe after the second world war. it will contribute to a more stable, secure and stronger union. neither bulgaria nor romania’s accession processes are yet complete. indeed, as commissioner rehn has emphasised and emphasised previously in july, it is crucial to the success of enlargement that any new country joining the union is well prepared to cope with the obligations of membership. as the commissioner made very clear in his public statement in october, the jury is still out on when bulgaria and romania will join. it is in all of our interests that bulgaria and romania are ready to join the european union on 1 january 2007, as has already been suggested in the course of our debate. this goal is achievable as long as both countries step up the pace of reform in the short period of time left between now and that critical date. the comprehensive monitoring reports identify clear areas where both countries must now focus their efforts. the report on bulgaria shows that it meets the political criteria for membership, but further work is still needed to address remaining shortcomings. these include taking decisive action to reform the justice system and substantially stepping up the fight against organised crime and corruption, including at a high level. pursuing reforms of the public administration system should also be a priority. in the area of human rights and the protection of minorities, more efforts are needed to prevent the trafficking in human beings, a subject on which this parliament has repeatedly made clear its views, as well as to improve child welfare and the situation of the mentally disabled and to further the integration of the roma minority generally. the commission also assesses that bulgaria should be in a position to comply with the economic criteria of accession, provided it continues on its current reform path and deals with the current account deficit. to this end, it should seek to maintain a prudent fiscal policy, improve the business environment and pursue accelerated labour market reforms. on the adoption and implementation of the acquis, the report notes that bulgaria has made further progress in particular on competition rules and culture and audiovisual policy. however, developments in a number of other areas have been frankly insufficient. generally, bulgaria needs to step up its efforts to complete preparations and to develop a sufficient administrative and judicial capacity to implement and enforce our union’s legal order in full. i mentioned some particularly pressing implementation gaps earlier, such as the need to tackle corruption and organised crime effectively. other concerns relate to the implementation of the european union’s external border requirements and procedures, police cooperation and the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights in order to fight piracy and the broader issue of counterfeiting. the weak enforcement of rules on motor vehicle insurance also remains an issue of serious concern, as are shortcomings in the areas of agriculture, animal welfare, veterinary public health and food safety. turning to romania, the commission assesses that she meets the conditions for membership, but further work is still needed to address remaining shortcomings. romania needs to take decisive action to reform the justice system and substantially step up the fight against corruption, including at a high level. it should also pursue reforms of the public administration system and further efforts are needed to improve the situation of the disabled and mentally ill, a topic which i know is close to this parliament’s heart. i would agree with the commission’s assessment that romania should be in a position to comply with economic criteria by accession, provided it continues and intensifies its efforts, in particular by paying attention to its external balance, public sector wage policy and the government’s revenue base. romania has made further progress in adapting and implementing the acquis, in particular on areas concerning the free movement of persons, telecommunications and consumer protection. however, shortcomings remain in other areas. generally, as with bulgaria, romania needs to step up its efforts to complete preparations and to develop a sufficient administrative and judicial capacity to implement and enforce the european union’s legal order in full. it too needs to tackle corruption, including high-level corruption. as with bulgaria, romania must address concerns over the implementation of the european union’s external border requirements and procedures, and concerns over the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights. a number of grave shortcomings that need to be swiftly and decisively addressed also relate to the area of agriculture and food safety and to the protection of the environment. the first months of next year will be crucial periods in romania’s accession process. romania has made substantial progress to reach this stage. i clearly acknowledge that before this parliament today. however, it must now renew its efforts to tackle those remaining concerns. bulgaria must also in the first months of the year focus all its efforts on addressing its remaining shortcomings. the commission’s report provides an effective roadmap, identifying clearly the key weaknesses, and should help guide bulgaria’s approach. bulgaria too has made substantial process to reach this stage. the finishing-line is now in sight and bulgaria will cross it, as long as it increases its efforts and implements those outstanding reforms. this will require hard work, but it will be well worth it. the european union will continue to provide any assistance and support to both bulgaria and romania in their endeavours to make that final push towards accession. i hope that accession in 2007 will be achieved by both romania and bulgaria. that accession will bring real benefits to both countries and – i would argue – clearly to the european union as a whole. as my prime minister, tony blair, said to this parliament in june, enlargement is an historic opportunity to build a greater and more powerful union. i hope that this time next year both romania and bulgaria will be only a fortnight away from becoming full members of our european union. (applause)
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. the report was then presented by the commissioner, mr rehn. we are doing so again today to refer to the report which this parliament will adopt tomorrow and which will, i hope, have broad support. there is a basic overlap between the two reports. romania has made a lot of important progress, but there are still a number of areas where efforts are needed, which we all know and which have been mentioned today. there is also a fundamental overlap between the two reports: it is very important that progress is made in the area of justice and home affairs, particularly with regard to the implementation of the reform of the functioning of the judiciary, better border control and the fight against corruption, which is an essential aspect and on which parliament wants to see results. there is another important coincidence between the commission report and the moscovici report: we are at a decisive moment. as the commissioner has said, the commission will report next spring on romania's state of readiness and will decide whether to put in place a mechanism which could delay effective accession by one year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we want to be closely associated with this matter. the results in the field of justice and home affairs and the fight against corruption will be of great relevance in this spring's evaluation. the romanian government must therefore continue to make the greatest possible efforts in this and other areas. the example of the successes achieved in competition policy, which was once a matter of great concern, should serve as an incentive for the work to be done. mr president, it is true that the accessions of romania and bulgaria should not be victims of the new climate of crisis and fatigue among the citizens which has become apparent with the failures related to the constitutional treaty. but we must be realistic; that climate exists and it is difficult not to be affected by the members of this parliament, who are close to the citizens and will be watching carefully the state of readiness of the two countries. in short, romania has a historic appointment with the european union on 1 january 2007. as the report says, parliament reaffirms its wish that this appointment should take place, but also stresses that the achievement of the objective depends, first of all, on the romanian authorities fulfilling their commitments. we support and applaud the efforts they are making to arrive on time and achieve the target, but the task lies with the romanian authorities.
president-in-office of the council. i can assure the honourable member that we are endeavouring to reach an agreement on the amended proposal for a directive amending the working time directive. in-depth discussions, both bilaterally and in the council working groups, have enabled progress to be made on some key issues. discussions at the employment council only last week were very positive. we made significant progress towards identifying the possible elements for an agreement. regrettably, however, due to differences in labour market situations across the member states, as well as the complexity of new provisions, it was not possible to reach overall agreement at this stage. it is obviously vital that any solution strikes the right balance between the objectives of health and safety protection for workers, and the protection and promotion of europe’s competitiveness in the context of globalisation.
president-in-office of the council. i am sure that honourable members as experienced as mrs lynne recognise that it is not my responsibility to answer on this occasion on behalf of individual members of this parliament or of any group within this parliament. my responsibility instead is to answer on behalf of the presidency. however, i can assure her that she is correct in her analysis, in recognising that one of the main outstanding issues is how to apply the directive: per contract or per worker. this confusion has arisen out of the discovery that, as she suggested, some member states were applying the limits in the working time directive per contract, thereby allowing people to work much longer than 48 hours per week by having more than one contract. we now need to consider further how to resolve this and seek to build on the significant progress that was made in the course of our presidency, including last thursday.
mr president, i do not understand the british presidency's concern about the multiple contracts. it would be very commendable if you were against the opt-out, but with an opt-out directive, as you advocate, it is irrelevant whether the contract is seen or the worker is seen, because everyone will be able to work more than 48 hours. i think this is a tactical manoeuvre; a manoeuvre which has divided the council, is wasting their time and will not bring us any closer to the final solution. you should read the resolutions of this parliament better. parliament has indeed found the way to flexibility and security. please don't invent new issues and focus on solving the important problems.
president-in-office of the council. i am reflecting both the spirit and the outcome of the discussion at hampton court of which i spoke earlier. there was a clear recognition both of the challenges that europe faces in the face of globalisation and that different courses have been set, in the face of those challenges, by individual member states.
president-in-office of the council. any amendment of the treaties on which the union is founded can enter into force only after being ratified by all member states. under the current treaty, the council can already adopt specific measures aimed at the outermost regions. this includes common policies. the regional state aid guidelines, which are currently being revised, already make special provision for the outermost regions.
madam president, i thank the president-in-office for his remarks on the provisions of the new guidelines on state aid to the outermost regions, but in any case there is a figure in international law, namely signed and unratified treaties, which have certain legal consequences. in my own region, the canary islands, the european constitution was adopted with 90% of the votes. at the moment, more than half the population of europe has approved the ratification of this constitutional treaty and i have the impression that this ratification is not irrelevant from the point of view of european law.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her report. i welcome the initiative of the european parliament and share the rapporteur’s commitment to equal opportunities in the fisheries sector. i also share her opinion that the participation of women’s networks is particularly important in this context. in the next programming period, 2007-2013, the commission will attach great importance to promoting the role of women in the fisheries sector. the proposed european fisheries fund reflects the commission’s commitment to equal opportunities. the future fund is even more specific about the role of women in fisheries than the current financial instrument for fisheries guidance. the integration of the gender perspective is promoted during the various stages of implementing the fund. we will ask the member states to ensure that operations to enhance the role of women in the fisheries sector are promoted. the report under consideration calls on the commission to provide active support for existing women’s networks and the creation of new networks. i am very pleased to inform you that the european fisheries fund proposal will support specific actions like networking and the exchange of experience and best practice among organisations promoting equal opportunities between men and women. for the next programming period, the commission suggests including the actions relating to networking and the exchange of experiences among organisations promoting equal opportunities in the member states’ operational programmes. this replaces our past approach of launching calls for proposals for innovative actions directly managed by the commission. we believe that this option will have more added value than funding small-scale projects, which was the case under the innovative actions formula. an ex-post evaluation of transnational projects for innovative actions was conducted in 2005. one of the main findings of the evaluation was that the operational programme projects were more highly performing than the innovative action projects. the evaluation also showed that the eu added value of the innovative actions, as well as the exchange of experiences and good practices were fairly limited. in your report you called on the commission to promote more vocational training and education specifically geared to the activities of women working in the sector. i am pleased to announce that the european fisheries fund’s new priority – the sustainable development of fisheries areas – will make an important contribution to these needs. support can be granted for the diversification of activities and the promotion of multiple employment opportunities for fishers outside the sector. measures, such as the promotion and the improvement of professional skills, worker adaptability and access to employment, particularly in favour of women, are foreseen. the measures aimed at the diversification of economic activities, as well as education and professional training, will be of particular benefit for women in fisheries-dependent areas. the commission also shares with you the concern about the difficulty in recruiting young people in the fisheries sector. the sector suffers from a poor image with the younger generation and an effort has to be made to attract young people to join the profession. in this regard under the european fisheries fund, we are considering more incentives for young fishers, in addition to the measures already foreseen under the financial instrument for fisheries guidance such as training, including training on health and safety, and the upgrading of professional skills. there will also be limited assistance offered under the eff for first-time young fishers entering the profession. in addition, there will be increased possibilities for the participation of women in the decision-making process. the new priority ‘sustainable development of fisheries areas’ will be implemented through a bottom-up approach. the local actors, including women’s associations, will be the motor in designing and implementing the local development strategies. this new approach is a further opportunity for women at local level to get involved in decision-making and to ensure that their specific concerns are taken into account in the local development strategies. likewise, for the establishment of the national strategic plans, a wide partnership with all relevant actors, including women’s representatives, is foreseen. women’s organisations should therefore give their input for the analysis of the trends in the fisheries sector and the development of a strategy for its sustainable development. women and their representatives are also encouraged to participate in the regional advisory councils, which are the cornerstone of the ‘governance’ pillar of the reformed common fisheries policy. for instance, women’s associations already have a seat in the north sea rac, which was the first to be created as a result of the common fisheries policy reform in 2002. women are also represented in the north western waters rac. finally, following the conference on the role of women in fisheries organised in january 2003, i am pleased to inform you that the commission is planning to organise another conference on equal opportunities in 2006. this conference will take stock of the situation of women in the fisheries sector and reflect on ways further to improve the situation and make further progress. i hope that the views of this parliament will also find reflection in the proceedings of the conference. in conclusion, i would like to underline the commission’s determination to attribute great importance to equal opportunities in our policy. however, in order to make equal opportunities a reality, all policy-making levels need to take responsibility: the commission, and national as well as regional and local levels. your own commitment to this objective will assist in keeping and furthering the importance given to equal opportunities at all levels.
opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and i would like to join the rapporteur and the commissioner in saying that the role of women in the fisheries sector should be given greater recognition. although the participation of women in extractive fishing is only 3%, women are actively involved in all other fisheries-related activities. as a consequence of their invisibility, many of the women working in the sector lack social and economic rights. we therefore call on the commission, together with the member states, to take the necessary measures to fully guarantee the rights of these women. we also agree that women should have access to vocational training, finance and credit on equal terms with men. it would also be necessary to strengthen the participation of women in decision-making processes, and it would also be very positive if the commission were to recommend to the relevant bodies to take the necessary action in this respect. and of course it is essential to help women's organizations and networks, and we welcome the commission's commitment to continue to actively support existing ones and the creation of new ones, as they are absolutely necessary tools for the exchange of information and good practice. ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to and must not end my speech without making a special mention of the group of shellfish farmers, and i say shellfish farmers because this work is carried out, for the most part, by women over 50 who suffer health problems directly deriving from their work and who, in many cases, lack the right to unemployment, health services and safety at work. we cannot allow groups like this to be so unprotected and, as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i call for greater recognition of the work of women in the sector and for us to provide, without delay, solutions to the problems arising from this work.
i am grateful to mrs attwooll for her report, which highlights an extraordinary formula for women to see their role in society reassessed and to be able to take better advantage of the various possibilities open to them to improve their training, their specialisation and their future prospects. i am proud to say that in recent years the fisheries authorities in my region have paid particular attention to the role of women, encouraging - and even urging - partnership and fully supporting the integration of such partnerships into existing networks, as well as convening international forums and conferences to strengthen them and create new ones, allowing the exchange of knowledge and experience between women from all over europe. the result is spectacular, especially as regards women's own awareness of the economic and social importance of their work, from assuming it as a supporting role in the family economy, which they had traditionally been called upon to perform, to demanding the compensations to which, as workers, they are entitled: better wages, social benefits and demand for training. the report by mrs attwooll faithfully reflects the role that women's networks have played and can still play in this area and calls for continued and increased support from national administrations and the commission itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would first like to express my agreement as the alternative rapporteur on this report with what the rapporteur, mrs attwooll, has said. i think that by reading this report we can see that women's nets are fulfilling, but can still fulfill more and better in the future, multiple tasks in fishing areas. it is important to give visibility to the very important work of women in this sector and thus to ensure that these activities, which in many cases - as has already been said here - are carried out free of charge and sometimes without social protection, are valued and remunerated. there's still a long way to go. the report also recognises the effort already made by the commission in organising the conference on the role of women in the fisheries sector in 2003. we look forward to the one planned for 2006. but there's still a lot to do. i am therefore glad to have heard the commissioner's voice on a change of approach, which is very much needed for women in the fisheries sector. i believe that the measures which the commission must take to support these networks must be oriented in four directions, which emerge from the reading of the report: information, funding, representativeness and training. a more comprehensive report should be drawn up. i agree with the rapporteur that we are not very well informed about the report on women's networks. it is necessary to draw up a comprehensive report, which accurately reflects the situation of the existing networks, and to monitor subsequently the evolution of these networks. funding is needed because these networks fulfil and can fulfil more and better in the future functions of public interest from an economic, social and even ecological point of view, and therefore deserve to be given funding instruments. the training mentioned by the commissioner is necessary. the commission, aware of the important role played by women in the fisheries sector, should promote the education and training of young people in these activities, in order to allow their continuing involvement. as has already been pointed out, there are situations which serve as examples, such as that of shellfish farmers. i therefore believe that we must support women's organizations which are grouped around networks, so that they can achieve and consolidate an improvement in their living conditions. i would like to announce that my group will also support mrs attwooll's report.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. i think that, as a precautionary measure, it is good to approve mrs stihler's report, but i would like to make a number of comments, some of which are in line with those made by the commissioner. firstly, we do not agree with the rapporteur's assertion that, in the event of a reduction in the appropriations provided for in the commission's proposal, they are unjustifiably deducted from the heading for fisheries agreements, even though the rapporteur seems to forget that most of these funds are now intended to cover development aid, and not the commercial part of these agreements. the recurring theme of linking the financing of fisheries agreements to prior cost-benefit analyses is also becoming impractical at this stage. firstly, the ex ante and ex post studies carried out by the commission for each protocol show that the agreements continue to bring benefits in excess of the cost to the european union and, at the same time, because of their new character as association agreements, other parameters which cannot be quantified in a mere cost-benefit analysis have to be taken into account. secondly, we also do not agree with the funding of natura 2000 measures from cfp funds. i refer to what parliament said in the böge report on the financial perspective. finally, as regards the regional fisheries committees, i do not think that it is justified, at least for the time being, to extend the period provided for in community legislation for their financing, especially since most of the racs are not yet operational, as not even half of the planned ones have been set up. the logic is that the racs should be an instrument which can eventually finance itself, if it is as useful as we hope, and not become a new burden for taxpayers, especially in a policy whose financial envelope is always below the minimum.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i almost link to mrs fraga's last sentence. i do not know why, but it is precisely the common policy which has the least funds that is the most beset by requests of all kinds. in this connection, and although i sincerely appreciate the work done by the rapporteur - and she knows this - i cannot help but make a number of observations, or rather disagreements, with the text which has been adopted in committee and which we shall be voting on tomorrow. i am referring specifically to amendments nos 6, 9, 11, 12 and 13, which i will briefly review below. in the context of this regulation, and in view of the positive effects on employment of international agreements in the regions of the community, i understand the commission's position on this matter. the maintenance of employment is a specific objective which no one disputes. but to set ourselves this same objective without specifically mentioning the community, as mrs stihler does, can be misleading. as a wish i find it very commendable, but it goes beyond the scope of the cfp and i certainly find it an unrealistic objective. as regards the collection of data for natura 2000, as provided for in amendment no 9, i believe that it should be financed by the funds earmarked for environmental policy - and i have always said this - and not by the cfp. we in the cfp know that this policy is paying the bills for commitments made under other community policies, as evidenced by the growing economic weight of development cooperation under fisheries agreements. moreover, when mrs stihler in amendment no 12 raises the criterion of profitability as a determining factor in fisheries partnership agreements, i cannot help but wonder what profitability she is referring to, that of the third country? i think, mrs stihler, that if we were to rely on this criterion of profitability, i do not know whether we could carry out the cooperation policy to which i have just referred, and to which you yourself refer. and i do not know whether you, as rapporteur, have given any thought to this criterion of profitability, which is so difficult for me to understand. i accept the two amendments tabled by mr guerreiro and amendment no 17 tabled by mrs stihler.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by saying – on the previous point made by mr casaca – that when preparing the allocation of grants, the commission examines the requests submitted by member states, taking into account the needs and efficiencies of each member state, as they result mainly from the national programme and from the earlier report on control activities, which each member state must transmit to the commission. priority is given to those investments which are deemed more cost-effective, bearing in mind the general interest in achieving a high level of control throughout the community. therefore, priority may change over the years and be different for different member states. i totally agree with mr kindermann that control and enforcement is a cornerstone of the effectiveness of the common fisheries policy. i am committed to continuing to strengthen control and enforcement activities. the establishment of the control agency this year will certainly make an important contribution in this area. on the points raised by mrs attwooll, mr crowley and other speakers with regard to the whole question of sanctions, let me say that the main trend, as published in the communication, shows that the total number of serious infringements has varied considerably from one year to another – from 4 180 in 2000 to 9 502 in 2003. it is difficult to know if this increase in the infringements detected means that the rate of detection of serious infringements is improving or if the number of infringements committed has increased. one notable element of progress with regard to deterrence is the fact that the average amount of fines imposed has increased from eur 1 757 in 2002 to eur 4 664 in 2003 – that is an increase in one year of 165%. however, the fact that fines imposed in 2003 amount to only 0.004% of the value of landings in 2002, makes us think that fines remain too modest to represent a real deterrent for rule breakers. having said that, this is a general statement, and one would have to look into the various subsectors and offences with regard to which these fines have been imposed. some conclusions from the previous communications are, firstly, that there are substantial differences between the average penalties applied – as a number of members have made clear tonight – and that the amount of penalties remains too low to represent an effective deterrent against non-compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. regarding whether criminal procedures or administrative procedures are the best option, article 25 of regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 foresees that member states are to take appropriate measures against responsible persons when the common fisheries rules have not been respected. member states can prosecute infringements through criminal or administrative procedures, provided that these measures are effective and proportionate to the seriousness of the infringements. the commission cannot otherwise interfere in the choice of the instrument by individual member states. this could touch upon the sensitive issue of state sovereignty. having said that, i repeat that it is the commission’s view that administrative procedures – and thus administrative sanctions – are preferable. they are preferable because they can be imposed swiftly by an administrative authority, as this does not require the lengthy process involved in establishing liability before sanctions can be imposed in criminal proceedings. they are less expensive than judicial proceedings. non-criminal sanctions can be swiftly imposed and have been seen to be more effective than more severe penal sanctions. for instance, an administrative sanction, such as suspension of a fishing permit, may be an effective way to encourage compliance, as it can be applied quickly. i regret that the majority of member states do not use this tool more often. the sanction – be it criminal or administrative – must be tailored to the seriousness of the infringement. mitigating or aggravating factors include: a negative impact of the violation on fisheries resources or type of fish; previous conduct of the violators; repetition of the same infringement; and the estimated economic benefits deriving from the infringement. the commission has launched a consultation process on improving the quality of data collected and reported and the analysis of this data, in order to compare the situation between member states. furthermore, the commission intends to propose a catalogue of sanctions to be imposed in cases of serious infringements, for adoption by the council, as foreseen in article 25(4) of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002. the catalogue should help to increase the level of sanctions and contribute to the establishment of a more level playing field. this catalogue is scheduled to be presented by the commission in the second half of 2007. as i have already said, the discrepancies are, therefore, large and our preference is for administrative sanctions, since they are more effective and can be implemented quickly. in reply to a specific point that was made, i would say that our proposal for the harmonisation of sanctions for serious infringements will be published in 2007. we hope that this will create a more level playing field and, at the same time, address the issue of proportionality. with regard to the last point, which was raised by mr casaca, concerning amendments 2 and 6, i apologise. the information that i have is that these amendments were not supported in committee. however, i will look into this and contact him tomorrow before the vote.
member of the commission. mr president, before i outline the commission’s position on this dossier let me first extend my gratitude to the committee on fisheries, and especially to its chairman and rapporteur mr morillon for his excellent work carried out within the very tight deadlines. as you are all aware, the commission procedures have delayed the finalisation of this proposal. the commission is endeavouring to prevent similar delays occurring in the future. we are currently undertaking internal consultations to see how best to overcome the delays which result in very short timeframes being given to the european parliament to consider the reports. i hope to be able to report to the committee on fisheries on possible solutions in the near future. in the meantime i want to apologise to the rapporteur for the very tight deadlines he had to work within, and i personally commit myself to discuss with him and to search for and find a solution with regard to the future modus operandi. on this dossier i would like to say that we informed the seychelles authorities of the delay in the adoption procedure at an early stage. the seychelles authorities have shown great understanding. as the honourable members are aware, the community has a long-standing relation with the seychelles in the fisheries area. the first fisheries agreement with the country dates back to 1985 and this is one of the most important tuna agreements in financial terms. it is also the cornerstone of the network of our tuna agreements in the indian ocean. this new protocol is the first one that fully reflects the new partnership approach. both parties subscribe to a political dialogue on fisheries issues and in particular the fisheries sector policy defined by the government of the seychelles. more than one third of the financial contribution has been earmarked in support of the seychelles fisheries policy. in line with this desire, the commission has had a joint committee meeting in april and two technical meetings in july and september 2005 with the seychelles authorities in order to start the political dialogue on the establishment of a multiannual sector programme to support the development of responsible fisheries in the seychelles. this work includes the establishment of annual and multiannual objectives, the distribution of a part of the financial compensation, the aims to be attained and criteria and procedures to be followed, in order to allow for an evaluation of the yearly results obtained in accordance with article 7 of the protocol. in this manner, both parties are firmly committed to responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in the seychelles waters. the new protocol covers a six-year period from 18 january 2005 to 17 january 2011. it grants fishing opportunities for 40 tuna seiners and 12 surface longliners and foresees a financial contribution of eur 4 125 000 per year. the protocol is of mutual benefit to both parties. i shall now turn to the amendments. on amendment 1 we fully share parliament’s concern and appreciate the speedy procedure undertaken notwithstanding the short time-frames given to them. as i said before, the commission informed the seychelles authorities of this delay at an early stage. the seychelles authorities have shown great understanding and have accepted to receive the payment of the financial compensation for the first year of the agreement at a later date. as i have stated above, the delays in the transmission result mainly from the nature of negotiations, but also because of the length of time involved in internal procedures. in view of this and of my commitment to find a solution, i seek the rapporteur’s understanding of our inability to accept this amendment. on amendment 2, as stated in article 7 of the protocol, it is up to the coastal state, in agreement with the community, to decide on the way the financial contribution will be used in support of its fisheries policy. it is therefore the responsibility of the seychelles authorities to identify the main priorities of their fisheries policy to be implemented with the assistance of the fisheries protocol. therefore i am unable to accept this amendment. as regards amendments 3 and 5, the commission is entirely in agreement with their spirit. however, the commission already complies with the transmission of this kind of information, in line with both the current interinstitutional arrangements and in particular with the framework agreement between the commission and the european parliament. the commission therefore considers that these amendments are not really necessary, if my information is right. amendment 4 cannot be accepted by the commission. may i recall the basic community provisions concerning the mandate of the commission to negotiate on behalf of the community. the council has authorised the commission to negotiate fisheries arrangements between the community and the seychelles. against this background, the periodic renewal does not require a new mandate each time. there is no need for a new mandate, given that the existing mandate covers these negotiations’ objectives. on amendment 6, the new protocol does not contain any targeted measures but a support to the seychelles fisheries policy – article 7 of the protocol –promoting responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in seychelles waters. we fully share the concern to keep the ep informed on the various aspects of the implementation of the protocol. however, the commission already complies with the transmission of such information in line with the current interinstitutional arrangements. therefore the commission considers that this amendment is not really necessary.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, thank you very much, commissioner, for your words. i would say that the fisheries agreement with the seychelles clearly shows that the objectives of this community policy are, despite the criticisms of some, in very good health and that these kinds of protocols remain basic to maintaining the competitiveness and employment of the community sector, while increasingly being involved in the promotion of more responsible fishing systems outside community seas. the activity planned for 40 search boats and 12 longliners will mean that the seychelles will benefit, as has been said, from more than eur 4 million a year, of which 36% will be earmarked for supporting their fishing sector. but if we add up the contribution of the shipowners for various concepts, such as advances for licences, fees, fees, supplies and salaries to island seamen, the figure rises, as indicated in the commission's evaluation report, mrs attwooll, to between 17 and 20 million euros, since, in addition, victoria, which is the base port for the entire tuna fleet in the indian ocean, is a major wealth creator for the seychelles. in view of this, commissioner, i think it is time to ask the commission to treat shipowners better by putting in place, at once, regional approach agreements which avoid the unnecessary multiplication of certain aspects which appear in all the protocols of the area, in this case the indian ocean, such as the need to have a consignor in each country, or to have seamen on board in each coastal state and observers also for each of the protocols, when, even by means of rotating systems, all countries could benefit equally without causing shipowners absurd and indiscriminate increases in costs. the commission itself has long recognized the need for such agreements for fleets operating in the same area, and that is why i ask the commission to work with the community tuna vessel owners to achieve what can be considered significant progress in this area.
on behalf of the pse group. i shall refer very briefly to this agreement, mr president, because it is very late and these are not the hours. i am grateful to the commissioner for his words, because i think they correspond to a great extent to what i think, and it is not hidden from anyone in this house that i am one of the members of this parliament who rejoice greatly every time a new fisheries agreement is signed. the ec/seychelles fisheries agreement is the most important tuna agreement ever concluded by the european community with a third country, and it is an agreement which constitutes - and i believe some members have already mentioned it - the cornerstone of the activity and presence of the community fleet in the indian ocean. i mean, not that this agreement is important in itself, which it is, but that it also has many implications not only economically but geostrategically, because the seychelles and, in particular, the port of victoria, are a place of obligatory passage for our fleet, which operates in that ocean, both for unloading and for stopping and refuelling. but, commissioner, the joy i feel at the signing of this agreement does not prevent me from criticising the slowness and delay with which the procedure has been applied in this case. the first payment - and i believe it has also been mentioned - of the financial compensation should have been made in september and, at that time, the formal consultation had not even reached the european parliament. our internal procedure must be carefully reviewed, to find out where our shortcomings lie and to correct them, because it is not logical that our fleet is doing its job thanks to the goodwill of the third country. delays only weaken the credibility of the european union vis-à-vis other powers, such as japan, which are much more agile in fulfilling their obligations.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, with regard to the four amendments that have been tabled, i repeat that, concerning acceptance or otherwise of amendment 1, which is to a recital, it would not give any added value. i undertake to discuss this with the president of the committee on fisheries and with the committee itself, in order to find some solution on a permanent basis, so that the situation can be resolved, hopefully, once and for all, and the fisheries committee will have sufficient time to make its necessary evaluation and give its advice on the proposed agreements accordingly. concerning amendment 2, as stated in article 7 of the protocol, it is up to the coastal state, in agreement with the community, to decide on the way the financial contribution will be used in support of its fisheries policy. it is, therefore, the responsibility of the seychelles authorities to identify the main priorities of their fisheries policy to be implemented with the assistance of the fisheries agreement. therefore, the scope of amendment 2 would run against such a right exercised by the third country with which such agreements are negotiated, although we try to influence and have indications within the parameters of the agreement reached on the uses of the funds. certainly, the development of coastal populations living on fisheries is an area which we try to impress upon the states concerned and which should be given top priority. on amendment 3, we fully share the concern to keep the european parliament informed of the various aspects of the implementation of the protocol. the commission already complies with the transmission of such information in line with the current interinstitutional arrangements. however, i will look at ways and means to improve this communication and discussion process with the european parliament. i cannot, however, commit myself here and now to accepting the amendment before i assess the full implications on the resources available at my dg, with the increased responsibilities that we have, without any increase in the number of people. this task was a problem – we are speaking about some 30 agreements – and i need to carry out an assessment of what this would imply before i can give positive commitments. i will certainly try to find ways and means whereby we can improve this process and hopefully have that included in future agreements; once we include it in one, it will become a standard feature in all agreements. i need to underline that i must be certain that if we undertake commitments, we will be able physically to fulfil them. the problem that we have faced so far lies in the length of the internal procedures, the consultations at an early stage with the member states, and the translation requirements that have increased considerably – mr stevenson made reference to that. we hope to find a solution in the short term and i will be discussing it with general morillon in january, so that we can work out a solution which i hope will be acceptable to the fisheries committee and will not have a repeat of such occurrences, which are embarrassing to the commission and leave the european parliament without real time to effect its rightful functions.
i would like to inform you that written declaration no 52/2005 by mr david martin, mr neil parish, mr peter skinner, mr terence wynn and mr robert evans on the growing international concern about the exploitation of bear bile in china has been signed by the majority of members of parliament. in accordance with article 116 of the regulation, it will be forwarded to the addressees and published, with the names of the signatories, together with the texts adopted on 17 january 2006.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
all right, we're finished voting. normally we should now move on to expressing the explicit agreement of parliament and the council on the procedure for adopting the budget and the maximum rate of increase. but the minister isn't here yet. so we'll keep voting on other things and then we'll go back. (protests) please be courteous to the british presidency. we'll continue with the vote and in the meantime the minister will arrive.
we are continuing to vote, we are continuing with the schwab report. but i'd like someone from the secretariat to check on the council's whereabouts. (applause) i would like to thank
let us say that it was a rather sophisticated use of article 145. (laughter)
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i should like to begin by apologising to parliament for arriving here late this morning. the reason for this is simply that i was told there was an entirely different timescale. because of that i arrived at what i thought to be on time, so i genuinely apologise to all members of parliament for that misunderstanding. certainly, had i been aware of the correct timing, i would have made sure, as a matter of courtesy to parliament, that i arrived on time. so i genuinely apologise for that misunderstanding. (applause) i am pleased to note that the agreement reached between our two institutions, following negotiations at the conciliation on 24 november and the trialogue on 30 november has now been included in the 2006 budget. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that some small differences remain between us concerning the classification of expenditure in the budget and that the council reserves its rights entirely in this respect. however, i am pleased to confirm that the council can accept the maximum rate of increase resulting from your second reading. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr lewandowski, the two rapporteurs, mr pittella and mr dombrovskis, and the commissioner, mrs grybauskaitė, for their constructive cooperation in establishing this budget. let us hope this is good news in terms of the delicate negotiations that are taking place as we speak in relation to the financial perspective. that will be in the interests of the european union and its relationship with the people of europe. i thank you very much for the work we have done together to make the 2006 budget possible. once again i apologise for the misunderstanding which caused me to arrive late this morning. (applause)
i thank the presidency of the council for its statement. before i go on to the signing of the budget, let me say that the budget we have just adopted for 2006 represents, in terms of commitment appropriations, 1.09% of gross national income for 25 countries in the union. in a few hours we shall be discussing in brussels a budget for 2007-13 which proposes, on average, 1.03 per cent for 27 countries of the union. (the president of parliament, together with the president of the council, signed the flexibility instrument and the budget after inviting the president-in-office of the council, mr ivan lewis, the commission representative, mrs dalia grybauskaite, the president of the committee on budgets, mr janusz lewandowski, and the rapporteurs, mr giovanni pittella and mr valdis dombrovskis, to accompany him.) (applause)
the voting is closed.
we shall now proceed to the explanations of vote. - report by mr böge (a6-0395/2005) on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (2005) 0183 - c6-0395/2005 -
the explanatory vote is closed.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i am most grateful for this opportunity to give the commission’s view on human rights in russia. there are a number of issues which give us cause for concern and which we raise regularly with russia within the framework of the existing strategic partnership. let me begin with chechnya. we were glad that the elections took place there on 27 november, and that they took place without violence. given the troubled history of this region that in itself is an achievement. we hope they will be a step in the process towards peaceful democracy there. however, there are a number of reports of irregularities, and we expect that these will be properly investigated. but much more needs to be done if chechnya is to progress to democratic stability. although there appears to have been an improvement in the security situation, a culture of impunity remains. it is essential that the authorities fully investigate cases of disappearances and allegations of torture and bring the perpetrators, including members of the law enforcement authorities, to justice. russia should also implement its expressed willingness to cooperate with united nations human rights mechanisms, including the high commissioner for human rights and un special rapporteurs. it is also important that the local ombudsman in chechnya is seen to be carrying out his duties impartially and effectively. i should also express our concern at the evidence of continuing harassment of ngos including those receiving support from the european community, such as the russian-chechen friendship society in nizhny novgorod. this also affects ngos delivering humanitarian assistance under the echo programme. in that context, i should draw attention to the proposal for amending russian legislation on ngos which is currently before the duma. we have been concerned that it could make the operations of many ngos, especially foreign ones, more difficult, and could therefore potentially jeopardise the commission’s efforts to help build up civil society in russia, as well as our humanitarian aid programme in chechnya. the amendments have been presented as necessary to enforce russia’s right to protect itself from terrorism. of course, we respect that right, but action taken must be proportionate and must respect international commitments regarding civil society, notably those relating to the osce and the council of europe. my colleague commissioner ferrero-waldner raised these concerns with foreign minister lavrov during the russian government’s visit to brussels on 7 december. he expressed understanding and said that amendments would be made to the bill to address these issues. we were, therefore, pleased to note that changes to the draft law have now been sent from the presidential administration to the duma and welcome the prior consultations held with the council of europe on the matter. however, we remain concerned that the present draft law could still lead to constraints on the legitimate activities of ngos. we urge the russian parliament, therefore, to use the second reading on 21 december to take the council of europe’s opinion fully into account. we will continue to follow this matter closely, including the implementation of any new law adopted. finally, let me say that we want to address these issues in a spirit of cooperation with russia. the eu-russia human rights consultations, which began this year, are now a regular feature of our dialogue and provide an opportunity for frank and open exchanges. in addition the commission, as well as being the largest donor of humanitarian assistance to the north caucasus through echo, has agreed a eur 20 million programme for socio-economic recovery there – a clear indication of our willingness to be actively involved in the process of strengthening democracy and stability in the region. we will continue to take all opportunities to contribute constructively to that process.
author. mr president, ethiopia is one of the countries receiving the most international economic aid, with the european union alone providing almost 500 million dollars a year. we cannot therefore remain indifferent to the events taking place in that country, especially after the brutal and totally unjustified policy of human rights abuses and mass imprisonment of opposition political leaders, human rights defenders and ngo workers by the ethiopian authorities. the harsh and unjustified repression against those who protested what they considered to be electoral fraud cannot go unpunished. the european union must therefore, firstly, demand from the addis ababa authorities the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners and detained journalists and editors, secondly, ensure that the humanitarian aid still so necessary for the population is channelled through ngos and the united nations, and thirdly, ensure that the arms embargoes on the region are maintained and that the code of conduct on arms exports is strictly observed.
