the last two weeks have been the most devastating in the world, the southeast asian catastrophe. of course, the tsunami and climate change have no common cause. unless we measure time in millions of years and talk about continental drift, which results in one thing earthquakes and another thing climate change. but millions of years are beyond the human understanding, and therefore useless to a politician. the year 2004 brought with it a host of new evidence of accelerating global warming. i'm just referring to the more than expected melting of the greenland ice sheet, which will raise the ocean surface by seven meters. last september, prime minister tony blair dedicated a speech to climate change, announcing that by 2100, the ocean will rise 88 centimeters, which, as things stand, puts 100 million people at risk. this is a different scale than the recent tsunami victims. but the other is that the preparation time we have left is two hours, we have almost a century, but more than 10% of the time for rio has already been lost and not in the most efficient way. i confess that i was a participant in the rio conference and before that in my previous life as a historical climatologist i reconstructed the series of freezing events in the port of tallinn since 1500. tallinn is situated in a sensitive part of the baltic sea, where the sea faces the hamlet-like question every winter: "to be or not to be ice?" from the 16th to the 20th century, there were no winters with ice at all, 6/8 of a century. in the 20th century, mainly since the 1970s, there have been 16 ice-free winters, and in the new millennium there have been four out of five. it is paradoxically sad that in a house with a magnificent view of the tallinn bay, several estonian governments are sitting in succession, who do not notice this important indicator of climate change or do not know how to draw any energy policy conclusions from it. the management of the state energy company, which is itself guided by the vision of the us oil and coal monopolies, is ignoring the policies of the heyday of industrialism, as recently as 50 years ago. electricity production is subsidised in a way that raises estonia's share of the world's water consumption, together with irrigated agriculture in the desert regions. if we take into account that drinking water costs eur 3 per litre at tallinn airport, electricity production in estonia is subsidised to the value of approximately eur 3 billion per year. at the same time, estonia is following in the footsteps of other eu countries in the deployment of renewable energy, despite the high potential of both biofuels and wind energy. what am i trying to say? i would like to say that, in recognition of the achievements of the cop10 in buenos aires and the european union's leading role in combating global climate change, it is time to strengthen the approach to energy policy change in the lagging member states, with the european commission and parliament acting together, also using the structural funds for action.
mr president, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased with the results of the vote. first of all, i would like to congratulate the honourable rapporteur on a very well thought-out report. this document is an exceptionally thoughtful summary of the most important of the european constitutions. but i'd like to see a slightly different emphasis on informing the constitution. the conclusions of today's report focus on the literature on the constitution. but we know from both opinion polls and logic that the european union's information is also expected and received by our citizens primarily through television. our report today underlines the need to clearly distinguish in the text of the constitutional treaty any new elements in relation to existing treaties. but it is more a matter of research than information for every european citizen. the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, which is over 300 pages long, is already very voluminous and consequently more complex than the national constitutions. there is no single european public opinion yet, but in my home country of estonia, for example, support for the european union has increased every month since our country became a member of the european union. however, a downward trend is also observed in many member states. but throughout europe, the same rule applies to journalism and information: people's expectations must be met. in both new and old member states, in towns and villages, people are primarily interested in the impact of the european constitution on their daily lives. i think that the european charter of fundamental rights should be the focus of the communication on the constitution. what does the right to good administration, for example, as laid down in the charter, give to every citizen? to what extent does this requirement require officials or politicians to justify their decisions, to be transparent? it is precisely the answer to such questions that should form an integral part of constitutional communication. and ceterum censeo: without television, there can be no question of informing the european citizens. this should also be taken into account by the european parliament's directorate-general for information in its work on informing the public about the constitution. i wish them and all european television stations success in making the complex phrases of the constitution into a telephoto that citizens can understand. thank you for your attention.
mr president, the greatest victory of the ukrainian people can be considered the fact that it no longer accepted the pseudo-democracy, the model of which was so widespread in the former communist dictatorships and was becoming an almost internationally accepted reality. it was essentially an immoral alliance between the new communist hierarchy, the economic oligarchs and the state bureaucracy. this union created a model of "managed democracy" that was patented by the indonesian dictator sukarno. therefore, ukraine's move towards genuine democracy is a choice a choice in favour of fundamentally different values. according to russian policy analyst piontovski, it is a choice between the past and the future, a council-style ukraine and a european-style ukraine. a choice he believes the russian people will have to make sooner or later. europe must courageously welcome these choices, rather than be frightened or confused by the change in the balance of power. the greatest tragedy would be if the ukrainian people were soon to be betrayed in their faith in freedom and justice. the eu is therefore obliged to take a lead in supporting ukraine's reforms in the long term by offering the ukrainian people a european perspective. it is important that the resolution calls for a change in the neighbourhood policy roadmap in the light of new developments. we also propose additional measures such as the organisation of a donor conference on ukraine. in addition to the neighbourhood policy, other forms of association should be offered to ukraine, opening the door to closer cooperation. this is in line with the demands of the vast majority of the ukrainian people, which could ultimately lead to ukraine's accession to the european union. i agree with mr saryusz-wolski that 'this is the time for action, not words'.
now that this primarily grotesque soviet electoral farce in ukraine has been resolved by the eu's efforts in particular, let us ask, what next? let's not discuss whether or not ukraine will become a member of the eu. he will if he does what he has to do, if we do what we have to do. first, we need to go much further than the kusma stagnation action plan. let us focus on the important reforms that the eu could help ukraine with, because what ukraine can do in a two-year window of opportunity is largely a question of whether or not it has a european calling. the eu must focus on the practical issues holding ukraine back: corruption, maladministration, crony capitalism, freedom of the media. the solutions require not only money but also, specifically, thousands of experts from the new eu members who have solved these same issues and successfully, because otherwise these new members would not be members at all. i call on the commission to create a substantially enlarged reform development plan for ukraine, using in particular the citizens and officials of the member states who have successfully implemented these same reforms. so let's be pragmatic and use eu human resources to help ukraine and start now. secondly, russia's behaviour throughout the ukrainian election epic shows that the eu itself must end its shady russian policy. in addition to the significant setback in democracy and freedom that has brought russia into the not free category according to freedom house, we cannot ignore russia's foreign policy behavior. russia has just announced that it will not honor its commitments at the 99th osce summit in istanbul to withdraw its forces from georgia and moldova. russia's brutal interference in the ukrainian elections, russia's growing hostility towards eu institutions, the unacceptable statement against eu leaders and officials who resolved the ukrainian crisis, show that europe must also rethink its policy in this direction.
mr president, the commissioner. our discussion today will focus on the question: 'how does the european commission intend to ensure that the natura 2000 objectives are actually met through its integrated approach?' so far, this has not been satisfactorily answered, as neither the european rural development fund nor the structural funds can cover all the natura 2000 objectives or all the necessary co-financing. i therefore consider it important to allow the missing part to be covered by the life+ fund. i think that the possibility of providing european union co-financing for the restoration and protection of habitats of trans-european importance, which are not used for agricultural purposes or for forestry purposes, should be included in the current draft. this is why natura 2000 needs to be included in the life+ regulation as a separate funding topic, whereas it would be appropriate to channel the majority of life+ funding to project funding through the member states. this should take into account the specific contribution of the member states to the natura 2000 network by the european union, including the areas of urban and natural areas. one problem is that neither the structural funds nor the rural development fund currently take account of this contribution of the member states to the natura 2000 network, preferring projects in densely populated areas. as a native of estonia, i can confirm that estonia's distinctive character and value lies, among other things, in the existence of relatively large natural areas. estonian projects cover 16% of our land. preserving these areas is currently easier and cheaper than restoring the former wildlife areas of central europe. in this context, it is not logical that a fund designed to finance nature conservation activities should take into account the density of the population as the principle of allocation of funds, rather than the values preserved so far.
my dear colleagues! the european parliament has been paying increasing attention to its neighbours to the east since the orange revolution. our resolution today confirms that the courageous decision taken on 13 january to grant ukraine the promise of accession to the european union was not an accident. the moldova resolution is well balanced. on the one hand, we reaffirm our support and demonstrate our understanding of the difficult situation in the region. the territorial integrity of moldova has been shattered, and the country's democratically elected government is being held by the military of a foreign state - russia - against its will. ironically, on february 23, the soviet union's vassal states, including estonia and moldova, were forced to celebrate the anniversary of the soviet army and navy for decades. the european union stands ready to support the moldovans both in their process of euro-integration and in the restoration of national integrity. in addition, the european union must be prepared to support, within the framework of the common security and defence policy (csdp), the control of the separatist part of moldova on the border with transnistria and ukraine. today's speech by president yushchenko here in the european parliament gives hope that ukraine will take the problem of transnistria seriously. the democratic nature of the moldovan elections does not depend solely on the correct counting of votes. an election is not democratic if all parties do not have fair, equal access to the media during the campaign. i mean the broadcast of teleradio moldova. there must also be an opportunity for electoral advertising both on the streets and in the media. that's the minimum without which the march 6th election cannot be considered democratic. the european union must be prepared to treat moldova on an equal footing with ukraine. i see no reason why the european parliament should not support moldova's prospects for european union in the implementation of democratic and market economy reforms. the first copenhagen criterion democracy is a prerequisite for european support and cooperation, of course. however, the other two free market economy and rule of law are moldova a and o. to be clear in these matters means to be honest with ourselves, with europe and with the moldovans.
mr president, i wish the european council every success in its review of the lisbon strategy. a decisive effort is needed to boost competitiveness not only through good programmes but also in real economic activities, because sustainable development and more jobs can result only from more growth. we also need to enhance the credibility of this union for entrepreneurs as well as citizens at large. not only the governments but also these people need to be motivated to contribute actively to achieving the lisbon goals. one solution lies in opening up the eu market in services. if we really intend to enhance efficiency and motivation, then we must open up without further delay. this could prove to be one of the most important and productive reforms of this organisation. conversely, watering down the services directive could deliver a devastating blow to the principles of equality and solidarity. it was said in this chamber today that free movement of goods and capital without free movement of services is nonsense. in this context, the country-of-origin principle must be seen as an inseparable part of the directive. i really hope that the new commission will not weaken its stand on eu market liberalisation. instead of waging battles to further conserve the present unequal status quo, we should concentrate on the benefits that free competition would bring to all of us, both old and new member states, and benefits there clearly are! i hope that the european council will show enough political will to make our citizens believe that member states are serious about creating the conditions for dynamic growth. this will also be a test for the eu’s solidarity.
thank you, mr chairman! the honourable commissioner! i'd like to speak in a slightly different key. the current sugar regime will remain unchanged for 40 years. but the european union is not what it was 40 years ago. the main shortcomings of the current sugar regime are lack of competition, market distortions, high prices. lowering the price of sugar is a key issue for the new member states, including estonia. since estonia is neither a sugar producer nor a sugar beet grower, the entire burden of the higher sugar price falls on our consumer. however, in estonia, there are no beneficiaries of the higher price in the form of producers. estonia is today one of the member states with the lowest average per capita income, and the price of sugar affects the quality of life of people with particularly low incomes. it constitutes a significant part of the average consumer's shopping basket. the price of sugar in the eu countries is up to three times higher than world market prices. knowing this, our country experienced a so-called sugar buying boom just before accession and we are now in a situation where we have sugar stocks that are higher than those allowed in the european union. we're being threatened by the sugar people. the competent state authorities have information that 2/3 of this stock is held by residents, which is not intended for speculation. we ask you to consider your own regulation number 6...
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. while the unprecedented surge in aid from the asian tsunami is slowly receding, with the globalising world showing its ability to commit significant resources to a common goal and to achieve good results, we must nevertheless acknowledge that smaller-scale tsunamis recur every month where aid is clearly insufficient. the commissioner. malaria kills about 3 million people every year, and every month 150,000 innocent children die of malaria, most of whom never reach their fifth birthday. it is a fact that 40 percent of the world's population, living in the poorest areas, are at risk of malaria. 90% of malaria deaths occur in sub-saharan africa, and among children. there, malaria kills one child every 30 seconds, and our inaction causes the death of two children every minute. malaria is becoming a global negative word, and recently, jeffrey sacks, the head of the united nations millennium development goals project, said that we could save those 3 million malaria victims today if we could allocate $2 billion to $3 billion. this money is needed to either buy or subsidize mosquito nets and insecticides and to solve immunization problems. however, jeffrey sacks said it was time for europe to take the lead globally, as the eu is the main donor to the global fund and has the cotonou agreement until 2020. in view of all these facts, i was going to put an oral question to the commission, which for reasons i cannot understand was a failure. in view of the recent significant progress in the treatment of malaria, could the commission explain what specific initiatives the european union could take to eradicate this pandemic disease, focusing in particular on malaria prevention? and second, shouldn't we be thinking about how we can get more private investment in the development of malaria vaccines, in addition to the public sector? - thank you. - thank you.
thank you, madam president, commissioner, i share the concern of my colleagues expressed in the question to the commission. in order to meet the legitimate expectations of the citizens of the european union, regional policy must be based on the interests of the european union as a whole, on a fair distribution of burdens, and i am grateful to the commissioner for expressing the view that the ten new member states have also contributed to this. the constitution of the european union also requires that the cohesion of the regions be strengthened. it is therefore necessary to ensure a balance not only between funding for the new and the old member states but also between funding for the different regions of the european union. for example, for years large amounts of money have been allocated to the mediterranean region - this is good and justified. but it is not good that funding for the northern dimension is much more modest, in a situation where the baltic sea region is becoming an area with greater development potential for the european union. the european union has its own mediterranean strategy, as does russia. i would suggest that the commission should also devise a separate strategy for the baltic sea region, which would be financed by the mediterranean in a similar way. this would bring about a new balance in regional policy, as the baltic sea becomes the mediterranean of northern europe. one practical issue in regional development is the eligibility of vat from the cohesion and regional funds. in the estonian context, the exclusion of vat from the list of eligible costs significantly reduces the capacity of small municipalities to submit projects. this means that structural aid will become 18% more expensive for them.
ladies and gentlemen! i was moved recently when an elderly woman in my home town of pärnu came to me and thanked me for informing her of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. he asked for much more information about the european union. i therefore agree 100% with the rapporteur, mr herrero-tejedor, that the provision of information on the european union must be increased. the rapporteur has drawn attention to a wide range of development opportunities, from the content of the messages being transmitted to the competition of original communication ideas. i agree that the media should be more involved and the key word here is of course television as the most influential and inclusive medium in society. let's take a look in the mirror. are we, the european parliament, doing enough ourselves? let me illustrate my point with an example. the european parliament has not had an estonian-speaking spokesperson since the end of last year. for six months, the european parliament has not published any press release in estonian on its website - and that's good, because it's only in my mother tongue. but i am asking specifically: 'who and how is responsible for this lack of action in the european parliament?' often, our first impressions can shape our thinking for many years to come. the new member states' perception of the european union is also being shaped today. i am convinced that the european parliament must set an example by respecting cultural diversity and language policy agreements. adherence to these principles also requires continuous press coverage in estonian, in other words, the rapid recruitment of sufficient officials and translators and interpreters from my home country and the other new member states to ensure a smooth bilateral exchange of information. finally, the fact that the estonian press is represented in brussels by only one permanent correspondent, which is why the lack of estonian-language information in the european parliament is a double-edged sword and requires a solution immediately, if not immediately. thank you for your attention!
mr president, i voted for mr brok’s resolution. however, bearing in mind that this is a very important step forward, the eu’s historic approach is still not fully balanced and the victims of communism still have a second-class status. therefore, for the future, we need to have a complete knowledge of the history of yalta and its consequences. this is also important for eu-russia relations. we should urge russia to assess its own history – including the reoccupation and annexation of the baltic states – and to apologise for the crimes the russian soviet totalitarians committed.
author.– mr president, i am very happy that almost all political groups have joined forces in this chamber to address this very serious and alarming problem. in the russian federation there are 19 different nations of the finno-ugric family, totalling 2.7 million persons. all are minorities in their respective autonomous republics. there are serious obstacles to the practical implementation of the cultural and educational rights of these minorities. for example, education in the mari language is provided only in some elementary schools, so that only about 20% of children can enjoy lessons in their mother tongue. the publication of textbooks in mari is practically non-existent. so the linguistic identity of the mari is slowly fading. i am also concerned about political developments in mari el republic. last december, the local president, leonid markelov, considered to be a strong pro-moscow politician to the detriment of native cultural autonomy, was re-elected. when the mari ethnic opposition, led by mr vladimir kozlov, questioned the fairness of the election results, mr kozlov was brutally beaten up. there has still been no satisfactory investigation into that act of violence. alarmingly, independent journalists have been harassed for a considerable period of time; three of them were murdered in 2001, many others have been intimidated and their papers forced to close down. also, as a result of the recent elections, several mari school directors and civil servants of mari background have lost their jobs. school directors were forced to give explanations as to why people in their areas voted for the opposition candidate. a considerable number of meps have signed an appeal in support of the cultural rights of mari people. this appeal has collected almost 10 000 signatures. the point of our resolution is to call on the russian authorities to respect their obligations under international law and 'to provide quality education in one's native language on all levels, thus securing that the mari language and russian are placed on the same footing throughout the republic.'
ladies and gentlemen! in today's discussion, it is worth quoting vladimir lenin. lenin called tsarist russia a prison for the people, but the soviet union was no different than tsarist russia, and lenin's words remain relevant today because the kremlin, which consolidates the central power and incites nationalist sentiments, does not respect minorities. xenophobia has been transformed into fascist strike groups in russia. this is especially dangerous in a country where one fifth of the population is of non-slavic origin. the harassment and killing of national journalists is a matter of great concern. this is where president vladimir putin's desire to suppress both independent journalism and nationalist discrimination comes together. the support of the authorities for attacks against the maras is indicated by the fact that fascist attacks have gone unpunished for years. russia must not ignore the situation of ethnic minorities when it plans to cooperate with moscow. in his speeches, russian president vladimir putin often speaks of a commitment to european policy. but russia's policy towards ethnic minorities once again confirms that president putin's actions are more than words. in europe, national tensions have decreased since world war ii. we respect the diversity of cultures, and we seek to protect and support the distinctive cultural heritage. european russia should understand, as europe does, that cultural diversity is russia's wealth, not its threat. unfortunately, we see the opposite. the european union's representatives must therefore take the protection of national minorities in russia seriously in their political talks with russia. in total, there are 28 million minorities in russia. these finno-ugric languages are spoken by four million people. the mordovian language, spoken by about a million people, has only a couple of dozen books a year; it does not publish a single newspaper or teach in any school. the situation in the marí is somewhat better, but the number of publications is rapidly decreasing and the lack of secondary and higher education in the marí language is doing its job. the european approach does not require russia to stop attacking the national opposition. it also means that the russian state supports the preservation of the languages and cultures of national minorities through laws and actions. it is a dream at the moment, but it is the duty of the european countries to support that dream, to fight for it if necessary. thank you so much!
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to say that the commission fully shares the concerns expressed here today by members of parliament about the situation in burma/myanmar. the commission continues to call for the unconditional release of do-aoung-san-soo-chi and other political prisoners. it also continued to call on the burmese regime to engage in a meaningful dialogue with all political actors including the national league for democracy and all ethnic groups. it is clear that national reconciliation and the return of democracy can only be achieved through a transparent and constructive dialogue between all the legitimate stakeholders. the commission therefore regrets that the conditions which would have allowed the national league for democracy and all other legal representatives to participate in the national assembly are not met. in the absence of any concrete positive developments in the political situation and human rights in the country and given that do-aoun-san-soo-chee and other political leaders are still in detention, the european union's common position on burma/myanmar was renewed once again on 25 april for a period of one year. the serious sanctions against the military regime have been maintained, and i can assure the honourable members that all representatives of the european union will continue to raise concrete issues such as human rights, forced labour, the lack of democratic development and the continued detention of do-aun-san-soo-tsi and other politicians at every opportunity. at the same time, in line with the agreed policy of the european union, the channels of communication with the burmese/myanmar regime will continue to be kept open. the european union stands ready to engage in meaningful and open dialogue directly with the regime at asian/european high-level meetings, or bilaterally on the sidelines of such meetings. the recent asean (association of southeast asian nations) foreign ministers' meeting in kyoto on 6 and 7 may was a first-class opportunity to discuss all the european union's concerns openly and directly with the leadership of burma/myanmar. this discussion took place both at the asean summit itself and between the european union troika and the burmese foreign minister, mr wynn. the troika also met with mr wynn, the foreign minister, and he was handed a list of political prisoners for whom the european union is concerned. with regard to the asean presidency, the commission remains hopeful that significant progress could be made towards national reconciliation and democratisation and the liberation of do-aoung-san-so chi in view of myanmar's assumption of the asean presidency. there is still no agreed position of the european union on its participation in asean meetings in the event of the burmese/myanmar presidency. but it is clear that several countries are reluctant to participate in asean regional meetings unless there are decisive positive developments in burma/myanmar before that country assumes the presidency. the efforts of several asean parliamentary actors to pressure burma/myanmar to make political changes before the presidency is taken are therefore particularly encouraging. finally, i should like to say a few words about the burma day which the commission organized on 5 april, during which the debate was based on a report by independent experts drawn up by two highly qualified advisers. although the report also refers to the european union's policy towards burma/myanmar, the aim of burma day 2005 was to focus the discussion on the possibilities of providing assistance within burma/myanmar. this assistance will not be channelled through the government but will be implemented in a transparent and accountable manner through un agencies and non-governmental organizations. the european union's sanctions policy was not discussed at burma day. all speakers were chosen based on their ability to contribute to the overall discussion on assistance and their experience from working inside burma/myanmar and not on their views on sanctions. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i would like to make an oral technical amendment. there is some confusion in this resolution. in the introduction, it is mentioned that presidential elections took place in the republic of mari el on 19 december 2004. however, in article 3 of the resolution, where the same presidential elections are mentioned, the date given is 4 february 2005. in fact, that is the date when the mari opposition leader was attacked. i would suggest that in paragraph 3 we delete the date '4 february 2005' and replace it with the correct date of the presidential elections, 19 december 2004.
commissioner, i thank the rapporteur for her thorough and professional work. it is a worthy follow-up to the reforms initiated by the previous commissioner, mr fischler. i am in favour of proposals to support small and micro enterprises by the commission and the member states. since the role of those undertakings is particularly important for employment and development in rural areas, the eligibility criteria to be established by the member states should allow them to have preferential access to rural development funding. i also share the idea of continuing to support young farmers in setting up their businesses by covering the costs of preparing their business plan. i also stress the need for a new financing system to support private forest owners more effectively than before and to compensate them for the costs of regenerating and maintaining their forest resources. as the representative of estonia, where forests cover 50% of the land, 40% of which is forest, i am aware of the concerns of these people. certain considerations should be taken into account when financing the european agricultural guarantee fund: first, the european union must ensure the financial viability of this regulation, i.e. the funds must be able to finance rural life in both the old and the new member states. secondly, the eu rural development budget line should under no circumstances be reduced, as this would be contrary to the development logic of the cap. i would stress that the new rural development regulation is expanding the range of measures in the areas of forestry, nature and non-agricultural jobs, which makes it necessary to increase the resources even more rapidly. finally, it is necessary to distinguish clearly between measures with structural consequences and other measures of the structural funds when financing them.
mr president, before we go off on the summer break i wanted to talk about a problem that has arisen in my country. the problem is that, after nine years of refusing to sign a border agreement with estonia, russia finally did so last month, but the estonian parliament, following typical parliamentary procedure, added a unilateral non-binding declaration saying that the legal continuity of the state is enforced even when territory is given up. the russians have now said they are going to withdraw from the border treaty. this is a problem not just for estonia but for europe as well, because the border between estonia and russia is also the border between europe and russia. since everyone is about to go off on vacation and the council will not be dealing with this until september, i thought it would be appropriate to raise the issue at this point.
mr president, the amendments to the life+ regulation introduced by parliament have made a significant improvement to the draft regulation. the tenfold increase in the budget compared to the commission's proposal is a concrete step towards achieving the sustainable development goals and thus fulfils the eu's strategic objective of halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010. the budget increase makes life+ a stand-alone instrument of the european union's environmental policy. in its current form, life+ would have been used only to fill the 'thematic financial units' between the structural funds and the agricultural funds. the promotion of nature conservation objectives would then critically depend on national priorities and could overshadow socioeconomic objectives. both the structural funds and the rural development fund also operate on an applicant basis. there is a significant risk that activities in areas of high nature conservation value will not be funded due to the absence or remoteness of interested applicants. for life+, it would therefore be more effective to follow the model that has been practised in estonia for many years, whereby grants for nature conservation activities are allocated on the basis of habitat: the beneficiary may not be the landowner but the operator of the nature conservation activities. member states need a firm and long-term funding strategy from the european union to ensure the protection of the natura network. in the absence of a single national decision-making power, the protection of values of european significance may be overshadowed by other national priorities. to avoid this, it is important to leave the right to programming to the member states, while defining at eu level the minimum funding levels for life+ areas of activity. the support of all of us for the amendments introduced by parliament is essential to direct community funds, in particular, towards the preservation of pan-european values. thank you so much.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. solidarity is one of the central principles underpinning european integration. my home country, estonia, has a good example in this respect from its neighbours in scandinavia. finland, sweden and denmark are among the countries with the highest human development indicators in the world. at the same time, we find them at the pinnacle of economic competitiveness. to achieve the lisbon development goals and to find a social model that meets the challenges of the future for the european union, we should certainly take account of their best practices. the present decision establishing a community programme for employment and social solidarity is a positive step towards a more cohesive european social environment. i would stress that ngos can be effective social partners for national governments, which as engines of civil society are also sensitive social indicators. to increase and enhance the programme's progressivity and also its implementation capacity, i, as one of the co-rapporteurs, proposed to increase the co-financing rate to 90% of the total expenditure of ngos. this is an important measure and will help the last 10 countries in particular to catch up more quickly. but a prosperous europe is the common goal of all of us. today, new member states, together with ngos, need support in particular to act as equals with other members without biting into other budgets. we must ensure the stability of democratic processes and this is directly linked to social stability. the increase in co-financing is also important because the programme is open to both the candidate countries associated with the european union and the western balkan countries involved in the process. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs jöns, for her expertise and you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. thank you!
mr president, i am encouraged by the commissioner's fresh approach to this topic. for me, the northern dimension was an ambitious initiative when it was proposed by the finnish prime minister, mr lipponen, eight years ago. under the first finnish presidency it succeeded in turning the eu's attention towards north-eastern europe. today, the baltic sea has become an internal sea of the eu, uniting an extremely promising region of 85 million inhabitants with immense economic potential. i should like to make three observations. my first concern is related to the highly alarming ecological situation of the baltic sea, where environmental and toxic hazards are often up to five times higher than in the north sea area. these growing risks and challenges need to be addressed by more cohesive and long-term policies, using the resources of the eu as a whole. it is high time, therefore, to widen the concept of the northern dimension beyond cooperation projects with russia's north-west regions, to cover the whole area of the baltic sea including the kaliningrad area. secondly, within the northern dimension, we should have a special baltic sea strategy, just as there is an eu strategy for the mediterranean. the time has come to draw practical conclusions from the enlargement of the eu to the east and north-east. clearly, we need a much more creative and balanced approach to these areas, including the creation of concrete financial instruments. thirdly, one of the core elements of the northern dimension is cooperation with russia. the efficiency and reliability of the eu common foreign policy are being particularly tested in this region. despite the european parliament's may resolution on russia, which called on member states to resist russia's attempts to differentiate between old and new members, unfortunately the date of 8 september stands as a symbol of the separate relations between russia and some larger member states. the so-called schröder-putin agreement will officially start the building of a new under-sea gas pipeline between germany and russia, solidifying the special relationship between those two countries. the side effect of that project would be to expose poland, the baltic states and ukraine to the russian practice of using economic pressure to advance its foreign policy aims. if its long-term cooperation with russia is to be successful, the eu needs to start sending a clear and coherent signal to moscow. our first priority must be to convince russian policy-makers that we take our own common foreign policy seriously.
mr president, on 15 september a russian fighter plane carrying four missiles entered lithuanian airspace and crashed near the city of kaunas. it was part of a group of six fighters accompanying a russian spy plane from st petersburg to kaliningrad. it was a most serious incident in a long series of violations of finnish and baltic airspace by russian planes. on the eve of the eu-russia summit i should like to ask the commission how systematic violation by russian planes of the borders of eu member states can be tallied with the common values upon which the eu-russia partnership is officially based. is not the integrity of the eu's eastern border part of our common foreign and security policy? as for kaliningrad, is it not in the interests of all parties to start to find ways to demilitarise this last vestige of the cold war in europe?
mr president, 25 years ago polish workers and intellectuals succeeded in creating a democratic civic alternative to the rigid communist structures. solidarność started the process of east european nations becoming genuinely free from totalitarian enslavement. the other lung of the same european homeland, to quote pope john paul ii, started to breathe and to bring oxygen and self-respect to tens of millions of eastern europeans. poland is a symbol for europe. it was the first victim of the alliance of hitler and stalin, who together launched the second world war. the polish nation experienced the worst of both of these dictatorships. it is not by chance perhaps that the victory of the gdansk workers opened the way for the reunification of europe. i think the most significant achievement of solidarność was its ability to unite all sectors of society. it was not possible without a moral revival, without the spiritual dimension of which a polish pope became the embodiment, reminder and inspiration. the important message of solidarność's victory remains how to find both strength and balance in the passionate quest for justice and the eternal spiritual values of europe. listening to this message would probably help us to overcome the crisis of european identity, of which there was talk today, because solidarność has become part of our european identity. we have an opportunity to decide on celebrating 31 august as a day of freedom and solidarity, but another date of european significance needs to be remembered. on 23 august, the date on which the nazi-soviet pact was signed in 1939, we should commemorate the victims of both communism and nazism. only then will the famous slogan, 'never again', also apply to the victims of communism. (applause)
i am here representing a member state which is certainly the second to last in the european union in terms of renewable energy. it's been caused by a heavily polluting and very inefficient but monopolistic fossil fuel industry. the only partly unavoidable reason for this energy policy has been the fact that the world market price for fuel stones is not there. it has been appointed by the committee of the ministry of economic affairs and communications. so in heating our homes, we've been independent of the fluctuations in prices on the world market. now, however, the oil companies have apparently raised the price significantly by means of the cartel agreement. as renewable energy is not seriously addressed in estonia, many consumers have no choice. it is known that the poorest people suffer the most from the rise in prices. the european parliament has been discussing, from morning till night, possible measures to mitigate both the social and economic consequences. but we have the minister of economy and communications who has been very helpless and has said that he can't do anything if the oil companies are tied to the price of oil. the price of the fuel itself has not increased. the moral is that the european union must step up its pressure on the governments of these blinded member states. i wish commissioner andris piebalgs the best and thank member claude turmen for taking a long step in the right direction.
mr president, last may’s malmström report on russia considers the final demarcation of all the borders between russia and the new member states as a precondition for the eu-russia visa facilitation agreement. at the latest london summit, parliament’s position was clearly ignored. until now, russia has refused to finalise a border with latvia. with regard to estonia, the border treaty was signed in may and was duly ratified by the estonian parliament. however, mr putin’s government then made an unprecedented move: it denied the validity of its own signature on an international treaty. this places a big question mark on the credibility of any further russian commitment. these issues were not even mentioned at the london summit. sadly, today, we can observe the eu letting itself be split by the kremlin rather than making the cfsp more reliable and coherent, as suggested by the malmström report
mr president, commissioner for culture, rapporteur, colleagues, the report on culture 2007 before the plenary has lost all the suggestions for amendments, after its adoption by the committee on culture, which refer to the recording of the memory of the crimes of stalinism. in the absolute sense of death, stalinism is no less tragic than nazism. mass executions and concentration camps were part of the arsenal of both regimes. in my home country, estonia, nearly 10% of the population was deported and killed under stalin. the elderly and children made up more than half of those who fled. even pregnant women were not spared. stalinism and nazism are two sides of the same ideology. they were born together. they divided europe between themselves with the hitler-stalin pact. after the enlargement of the european union, it is essential to assess the crimes committed by stalinism, mainly in eastern europe. only this assessment symbolizes that we are members of one european family. those who harbor an anti-human ideology are still a threat to us. their faces change as needed, but inside there are neo-nazis, national bolsheviks, neo-stalinists, et cetera, still ideologues. in the name of europe, the crimes of nazism and stalinism must not be forgotten. the cultural committee agreed to transfer the preservation of the memory of nazism and stalinism to the 'citizens for europe' programme. it is no secret that the 'citizens for europe' programme is even less well funded than 'culture 2007'. i therefore want commissioner figeli to state publicly and clearly that the transfer of the memorial to the victims of terrorism under the 'citizens for europe' programme will bring in some worthy additional money and attention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ruth hieronymi, on the fruitful conclusion of our joint cooperation. our committee on culture considers it important to place digitisation and the european catalogues at the heart of the media 2007 programme. we see this as the key to overcoming the fragmentation of the european market. if most of the programming is like giving a fish to a hungry person, digitization is about giving a human a fish hook. the european commission should actively engage in identifying the most appropriate digitisation platform and setting standards. digitization is about adding subtitles. digital media allows the choice of language and subtitle combinations as required. the preference for subtitles over dubbing promotes language learning, literacy and better understanding between cultures. for the hearing impaired, however, the presence of subtitles is vital. i deeply regret that the programme does not pay sufficient attention to the needs of people with disabilities. as an ambassador for a small country, i am pleased that the quota system and other measures support content producers from smaller and poorer language areas. the estonian market is so small that international distribution is the only way to recoup the costs of film production. some of our filmmakers have achieved international acclaim without using text in their work. it has been a case of inventiveness forced by necessity, which has now become a distinctive tradition. it is important for small producers that digitisation significantly reduces the costs of distribution. subtitling instead of hiring actors is also a real way to save money. i would be delighted if media 2007 would promote better use of underused studios and other means of filmmaking. i also hope to see the european union active in organising better the distribution of european films. the idea is to win back our position at the expense of american cinema. thank you and once again congratulations to the rapporteur.
mr president, we recently received new information about the key figures in the notorious russian yukos trial of mr khodorkovsky and mr lebedev. having observed their trial in moscow last may, our colleague, mr horáček, concluded that this trial did not follow rules that could provide a fair verdict. both mr khodorkovsky and mr lebedev have now been sent to serve their sentences thousands of kilometres away from their homes. yesterday, mr lebedev had to spend his 49th birthday in a prison situated beyond the arctic circle, isolated from his children and grandchildren, in conditions that are detrimental to his current state of health. last week, more than thirty meps signed a letter expressing the hope that both mr khodorkovsky and mr lebedev could have a new and fair trial, and that the conditions of their detention could be normalised. i would like to ask both the commission and the council to convince the russian authorities of the need for a new and fair trial for both men. russia has yet to prove that it shares our european values.
