mr president, i was at the milan climate summit a year ago and it is worth noting that some progress has been made since then. we met with representatives of the us delegation, as we did this time in buenos aires. while in milan the u.s. delegates were quite unequivocal in their denial of man's role in climate change, now the stance had softened. they had already been forced to admit the facts to the point of agreeing to talk about man's possible role in climate change. but that concession is a long way from getting the united states to commit to the global front to combat global warming. so, more common sense is needed. we would have many examples of how prevention becomes many times cheaper than catastrophe management. so it is economically insane for the united states not to be already running full steam ahead on climate change but to be risking the entire planet in an attempt to protect its competitiveness. the second step forward in milan was the accession of russia, which will allow the kyoto treaty to enter into force. it is an important political gesture, but whether it is more remains to be seen. i am afraid that the current kyoto agreement is not making much progress towards the climate objectives. why would you do that? the dutch minister for the environment, who was speaking during the presidency, rightly pointed out that the problem for the future was mainly the chinese emissions, whose rate of increase completely surprised the parties to the agreement. they are not disciplined by kyoto because china is not counted among the industrialized countries affected by the first phase of the emission limitation. so kyoto will not solve two mega-problems: the united states, which is currently responsible for a quarter of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, and china, whose emissions are expected to increase four times over the next 10 years. that's a doubling of global emissions in ten years. if that's the case, we're literally drowning. the most urgent action now is to take corrective action to make climate policy more effective, especially in china and india, so that irreversible mistakes are not made while waiting for the second stage. some of the taboos surrounding kyoto should be broken and it should be acknowledged that it has failed to solve the problem of global warming. it seems that country-specific reduction targets are locking the contracting states in a constant battle of self-interest. that is why we need a binding international 'coal economy' from which no one can be excluded. in a globalising market economy, this is the only way to prevent international capital from shifting production to places where there are no emission limits or environmental standards. therefore, the emission criteria for industrial production must be set at emissions per tonne of production and a careful definition of the theoretical minimum emissions for the different sectors is required. we urgently need a whole new energy thinking, based above all on energy saving and efficiency, renewable energy sources and clean energy sources. finally, i would like to express my deep gratitude to commissioner dimas, who took us parliamentarians very well into account throughout the whole meeting.
mr president, i am in favour of abandoning the constitution, as is my whole group. i would also like to remind you that the european parliament has no competence in this matter. the debate and the report on the commission's own initiative which will be adopted on the basis of it have no legal basis and no value. the constitution must be rejected, among other things, because it means the militarization of the eu. the member states are even constitutionally obliged to agree to increase their military spending. it is quite incredible that there is a provision on this at the level of the eu constitution. the governments of the member states behave as if the constitution were already in force. it has been decided to form 13 combat divisions, equipped as if they were assault troops. in fact, they are offensive forces, because they are intended to be used for illegal military action, which is only decided by the eu. we did not get a constitutional provision in the preparatory committee that says that operations outside the eu's borders must always be legal, that is, they must always have a un mandate. the constitution must be overturned, but the people must do so. in fact, one nation is enough.
mr president, this is a day of celebration for europe and for the european parliament. it has taken over 20 years to construct this constitution but we are getting very close. i will vote for this report and for the constitution for three simple reasons. firstly, this constitution was prepared in an open and democratic way. i have been a civil servant for ten years and i have been involved in negotiating three intergovernmental conferences, including the amsterdam treaty, the nice treaty and this one. i can guarantee that had this been an intergovernmental conference from beginning to end, we would never have had this constitution. but because we had a convention, we most certainly got one. secondly, this constitution is a good thing. there are 448 reasons for it, all of which are in the treaty as articles. there are three key issues: firstly, it makes the european union more democratic; secondly, it makes it more effective and, thirdly, it makes it much more understandable. thirdly, i will vote for this report because it is very good. i urge anyone who has not read it from beginning to end to have a look at it, because it simplifies and clarifies the treaty in a magnificent way. i wish to congratulate mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo, who are both at present speaking on their mobile phones – i hope they are nokias! – on their excellent report. if i were to bring up just one thing from the treaty, it would be on external relations. just reflecting on what happened in asia, if we had had a president, a foreign minister, a common security policy, a defence system, a better crisis management system, then together we would have got much further. finally, i would urge each and every member to go home and defend this treaty. that is most certainly what i will do.
mr president, despite all the differences that the debate on this subject has brought to light, we are once again making european history. as such, this agreement is an important step in the right direction. i am sure that the founders of the integration movement would be both proud and happy to see how many fundamental issues have been reached at such a compromise that parliament is now debating and voting on them. it is regrettable that in some countries the treaty has been taken out of context and has become a vehicle for internal and party political debate. the worst traits of europeanism, intolerance and nationalism, are too often seen and heard in these speeches, even though they are attempted to be disguised as more noble aspirations. this treaty, when it enters into force, will by no means lead to the creation of a european superstate. on the contrary, its spirit and its text will effectively counteract any selfish aspirations of individual states, groups of states or extremist movements. the agreement will leave the economy with the role best suited to it in continental cooperation. the dynamics of economic interdependence and the common monetary policy are also a prerequisite for political cooperation. without democracy there is no social dimension, and there is no democracy without a market economy. i am also proud that in my home country, finland, it has been agreed that parliament will decide on ratification of the treaty at national level.
mr president, i voted in favour of the adoption of the constitution, but at the same time i regret its scant mention of the christian heritage. there has been a general misunderstanding of the nature of the reference in the discussion on the subject. it's not about confession. it's about acknowledging the foundation of our ethical infrastructure. god doesn't need the protection of articles of the constitution - that's out of the question - but man does. the defence of the weaker party cannot be justified aristocratically by rational arguments alone. i therefore think it would have been necessary to recognise the role of christianity in the european concept of man. humanism as we know it today owes much to the christian concept of the human person, which emphasized the value of the individual. we need a strong foundation for our great dreams of a fair europe. i hope we can still cherish it.
in writing. we opposed the report by méndez vigo and corbett because we do not support the adoption of a european constitution. the constitution would essentially transfer decisionmaking powers from the member states to the european union. within the union, the emphasis on the exercise of power would shift from intergovernmental cooperation to a supranational level. the european union must be negotiated a new treaty, which will develop it into a union of independent states.
mr president, natural disasters cannot be prevented, but the political dimension of the matter is found in international cooperation in the development of alarm and warning systems. investing in them could minimize the damage to people. i do not know whether an organisation last week correctly estimated that half a million euros would have been enough to provide warning buoys in the indian ocean, but no funds were found for this flood. in any case, the example is illustrative in scale. preventive measures are always many times cheaper than post-accident treatment. now it has been decided to set up a warning system in the indian ocean. the detection system can be connected to telecommunications operators, who can pick up information from the monitoring system about impending accidents and send warning messages to citizens moving in the area in their native language. that's good. and in this way, we can turn this tremendous loss and tragedy into an experience that can save lives in the future. it is good that the eu foreign affairs and development ministers reacted quickly to agree on eu measures to help the people in the crisis area and to start reconstruction. however, it must be remembered that the promise of new emergency forces focused on civilian rescue operations was not a new and creative invention. it was a belated promise of the troops which, according to the decisions of the eu summit in 2001, were to be ready by the end of 2003. now the new deadline is set for 2007, and what would it be without this accident? it is indeed to be hoped that all the promises made will be kept. we all knew that natural disasters happen all the time. this event woke up the western world because of the presence of tourists, it came so close. hopefully, the awakening to human need and to mutual solidarity in the world will be permanent. it's a matter of dignity. help is needed even when the face of distress is unknown.
mr president, relations between the united states and europe are at a turning point. the focus of the us and nato has shifted to central asia since the collapse of communism, and the eu is developing its own defence cooperation. there are many things on which the us and the eu disagree - and we must dare to discuss them. it is important that transatlantic relations continue to be built on dialogue, not confrontation. while terrorism has increased the sense of community between europeans and americans, it has also highlighted the differences in thinking and action. yet the relationship is unique and based not only on shared interests and values but also on competition. the eu and the us need to cooperate more widely on global issues. the european union must also take action to combat terrorism and to combat the spread of the virus. the eu and the us should jointly fund and build effective early warning systems in risk areas. finally, i would like to say that i appreciate the fact that president bush is visiting brussels at the very beginning of his second term.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the most important point in the commission's work programme is not in doubt. it is the fastest possible implementation of the lisbon strategy, our global competitiveness. lisbon is like a pyramid, with r & d at the top, which is both a tool and an opportunity for us, but only two countries have achieved this 3% gdp target. the next layer is the ict industry. it is both a means and the most significant producer of the increasing result. the ict sector already accounts for a dozen percent of our gdp. digital literacy is therefore essential, since, for example, the majority of our office workers lose three hours of their working time to computer problems every week. what are we going to do, extend the work week or teach digital literacy? at the same time, it must be remembered that the top of the pyramid will collapse if it is not based on socially and environmentally sustainable development. it is our european model, a prerequisite for our competitiveness. i am pleased that you, mr barroso, are putting solidarity at the heart of our success, but there is still a lot to be done. the lack of solidarity, that western import, is increasingly manifested at all levels of our society and between them. the commission has set itself the objective of implementing the lisbon strategy. however, the member states have the final say. only a small minority have implemented the necessary legislation. so we have a movement of disunity within us. the union's competitiveness objective will not be achieved if the majority of its members are standing on the brakes. i ask mr barroso how the commission intends to get the member states to implement the laws adopted jointly. otherwise, it is to be feared that this will become a soviet-style five-year plan, which will be implemented only on paper.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the econtentplus programme is a very important programme. if successful, it will support the essential part of the lisbon strategy. it can't go into effect too soon. i would like to congratulate mr rübig on his excellent work. we hope that the commission will be able to make changes quickly in this respect. the importance of the online environment as a medium for the transmission of knowledge and expertise cannot grow unless the necessary, reliable, comprehensive, high-quality and secure content is available. it is our responsibility as union legislators to ensure that all our citizens have access to high-quality european digital and knowledge resources. we are aware of the diversity of our culture and the needs and great opportunities that it brings to our citizens. multiculturalism can also be a richness of the digital world. and that's why the digital world is different, it's self-created, it's artificial, it's inspiring, it's misleading, it's a tool for the abuse of power. we therefore know that european action is needed to safeguard diversity and quality. we also know that global market forces are not able to provide services like that. we therefore know that pan-european content production is essential if we are to move from the information society to the civilised society. we are part of the public sector that has to produce digital civil society services. so let's get the financing. i therefore welcome the rübig amendments which increase the amount of money available for the programme from the cuts previously made by the council. for the digital world to be shared, everyone must be able to participate, regardless of their social status. democracies should not allow digital dictatorships, but that's another matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. i had the privilege of attending the world economic forum as part of the young global leaders program. i know that you, mr barroso, were once the 'global leader of tomorrow' and now some members of parliament are taking part in this programme for young people. the economic forum was a great demonstration of the willingness of the world's business community to take responsibility for our global challenges. the opening day of the forum was marked by an interactive debate on 'global city hall'. it was a seminar where 700 davos graduates sat on the sidelines, prioritizing the world's problems and discussing the challenges they posed. when you consider the age, gender, residence and occupation of the participants, the results are astounding. or what do we think about men aged 40 to 60, mostly from the eu or north america, half of whom are ceos, who see globalization as their biggest challenge? the profitability of companies, flexibility in working life, the development of turnover or the china phenomenon? no, it's not that. the group identified the elimination of poverty, the implementation of equitable globalisation and the management of climate change as the main challenges of globalisation. global responsibility has come a long way as business leaders recognise that poverty eradication requires thinking beyond our own borders, bringing the benefits of globalisation to the poorest regions and creating global leadership to combat climate change. it is also worth noting that the views of the old and the new continent are very similar. i think globalisation is not as divisive as people on the left of the room think it is. these issues would be high on the agenda if friends of the earth held a similar meeting. the world economic forum also presented concrete actions and timetables to meet the challenges. i am sure that the world social forum will also have initiatives on which we share the same views. when there are common goals, it would make more sense to work towards them together than individually. in this work we in the commission will give you our full support.
mr president, my point of order is not about the vote on tsunami vessels but about interpretation problems in parliament. yesterday i spoke here in plenary. i had a two-minute speech and my political message was totally turned upside down by the interpreters. it made me look stupid. my colleagues could not understand a word i was saying in finnish. this is a constant problem for all the small language groups in parliament. i shall not use finnish any more in plenary if the result is that my political message is turned upside down. the same thing happened at the start of this sitting with polish, a very nice language. interpretation is not up to its task and this is a terrific problem for this house. i want this noted for the record.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking my colleagues mr goebbels and mr karas for their work in preparing the reports on public finances. as we know, growth in the eu has not been as good as we expected. the decrease in the share of gdp used for private and public investments in comparison with the 1970s is drastic, as our colleague mr karas described. due to a lack of structural reforms and low investment, growth in gdp is not satisfactory. however, we cannot rely only on public investment to stimulate growth: we must give incentives to stimulate private investment, which is the real source of sustainable growth in europe. at the heart of this debate is the future of the stability and growth pact. the goal of the pact was to balance the budgets of member states and to create budget surpluses by 2003. the idea behind this was for the member states to pay off their debts in the good times and to ensure, by reforming the structures of the public sector, that their budgets could be kept balanced in the bad times as well. however, it is not easy for us politicians to restrain ourselves from increasing spending in good times. unfortunately this shows in the poor results of many member states with regard to the pact. i am strongly in favour of the pact. the member states who have done their share and have kept their public finances in check – especially my country, finland – have to suffer as a result of the irresponsibility of the member states that just do not care! unfortunately it now seems inevitable that some elements of flexibility will be added to the pact. however, we should be wary of watering down the pact. three issues should be kept in mind. firstly, the rules should be same for all member states and the criteria should be objective. secondly, no expenditure, such as public investments or research funding, should be automatically excluded from public expenditure: these exceptions would provide an opportunity for member states to interpret them in a very innovative way. thirdly, the flexibility accorded to the member states should be bound to reforms they have carried out in good times. it is only fair that those member states that have paid their debts and have reduced their deficits should have some flexibility, but those who have not done anything should not be given any more room for manoeuvre. i hope that good common sense will win out and that the stability and growth pact will remain; and, if any changes are made to it, at least let us direct them in a favourable direction. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your good work. the project has now proved successful in its 20 years of existence. in many cities, people who would not otherwise participate have been mobilized. so lowering the threshold and lowering the culture is a positive thing. but why not expand the idea of the cultural city itself? right now, 70 percent of us live in cities. the city is the cultural environment closest to us. but too often cities are built mainly as transport hubs. the noise and pollution levels rise to inhuman levels. the majority of central europeans suffer from persistent noise pollution. noise and pollution have become a major cultural factor. in line with the lisbon strategy, cities should be developed as cultural hubs of the knowledge-based economy. we are developing into a civilized society, aided by digital networks. i don't think a cultural capital like this is gonna be built around a truck terminal. i therefore hope that in the future the cultural capital will host development seminars and design competitions on the cities of today and tomorrow. we should be making models of what a civilized online city looks like. our cities are built as hubs of medieval physical transportation. and this time has been over for centuries. we now live in a global digital network environment. in a global digital network environment. shouldn't it change cities and their cultures and their models? how is commissioner figel, are we stepping into the future?
mr president, the question raised by mr florenz is a valid one. there is a political gap between the priorities defined for the community and the uncertainty about funding. it is worth noting that at the beginning of this debate, commissioner dimas expressed his desire to secure natura funding. in addition, effective instruments are needed to carry out your will. we need a special fund. the european union's central challenge is to safeguard the biodiversity of our common territory. diversity is a value in itself and does not need to be justified here. each member state has committed itself to this by drawing up a list of its own protected areas in accordance with the nature directive. the natura 2000 network is unique in nature conservation policy, protecting environments for some 200 natural habitats and 700 species, and will soon cover more than 17% of the eu's land area. the natura 2000 network requires a significant contribution from the member states. the areas shall not be subject to significant impairment of the natural values which make the area part of the natura network. the authorities must also carry out an environmental impact assessment for all projects and plans that may affect the natural values of the areas. given that the natura 2000 network's impact on all existing and planned activities in protected areas is so wide-ranging that it requires a significant amount of resources and financial commitment from all eu member states, it is essential to ensure that the necessary and comprehensive amount of resources is allocated to the management of natura 2000 at eu level through a separate financial instrument.
mr president, in preparing for the geneva meeting, it must be said that the world has had a difficult year in terms of human rights. while paying attention to the many details, it is still worth mentioning in particular the leading human rights violators china and russia. it is right that parliament should not remain silent on the question of chechnya, for example. i would like to mention a small detail about china, two words which cause great suffering. these two words of accusation can destroy the lives of many innocent, peace-loving citizens. under the guise of an "evil cult", countless people are being arrested and imprisoned in china. their only crime is that they belong to a religious community. these people are not disruptive or a threat to others. they are simply upholding their basic rights, in this case the right to assemble and practice religion. "evil cult" is too vague a concept to be considered a reasonable basis for imprisonment. as is often said, our policies towards both china and russia are strongly linked to the facts of trade and energy policy. sometimes i can't help but wonder what the future of this relationship holds. what does the increasing energy dependence and energy demands that are already commonplace in the eu mean for european human rights policy? we are now 50% dependent on energy imported from outside the eu, and the commission calculates that this will rise to 70% by 2030. it has already been established that the concerns expressed by parliament and, in particular, by the member states, have in some cases been countered by the passivity and underlying commercial interests of the member states of the union. if this is already the case, how far will we go when we become more dependent and compete more and more for russian energy resources alongside china and india? if we do not recognise this and the risks involved, the result may be an unnoticed deterioration in human rights policy. it can shut its mouth when it should open it. we need a preventive strategy which takes account of our own weaknesses and our tendency to seek diplomatic comfort.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. in today's society, it's not always easy to be a consumer. the amount of advertising has increased tremendously and has become very diverse. in their daily lives, consumers are constantly faced with decisions based on conflicting information. sometimes advertising can be misleading to the consumer and marketing can be aggressive and unfair. the legislation governing this varies from country to country. this is why we need common legislation to guarantee a high level of consumer protection throughout the eu. i think it is wrong to assume that the consumer has the opportunity and the time to study advertising material very closely. the average consumer is only familiar with advertising on a superficial level. particular attention should be paid to advertising aimed at children. children are usually the most vulnerable to the effects of marketing. harmonisation must not reduce the level of consumer protection, which is very high in some eu countries. the guarantee of a high level of consumer protection must be the starting point of consumer policy. i therefore hope that we will have, and apparently will have, the transitional period proposed for this directive. that's a good thing. member states must be given time to reform their national provisions in such a way as to maintain a high level of consumer protection. mr president, the principle of country of origin is not and should not be used in this directive. the main objectives of this proposal for a directive would not be achieved if the national authorities were deprived of the possibility of intervening where necessary in relation to inappropriate advertising.
mr president, we must act to prevent such incidents from happening again. it's our duty. the steel industry is an important sector for us, accounting for a fifth of world production. we need it. it's an important employer. competition is putting us in a difficult situation which cannot but affect the number of jobs unless something is done. but we can't go out there and compete with the chinese for wages. we must maintain high standards of goods, working conditions and wages. in addition to international competition, the european steel industry is facing stricter environmental standards as a result of the union's emissions trading scheme and the entry into force of the kyoto protocol. the steel industry is the largest consumer of energy and one of the main emitters of carbon dioxide. the steel industry should therefore reduce its greenhouse gas emissions either by investing in new technology or by buying emission allowances. i would like to point out that in my own country the steel industry has been investing heavily in environmental technology for many years. co2 emissions have been reduced as much as is possible according to the present knowledge. my country's steel industry is the cleanest in the world. however, under the kyoto agreement, the steel industry, which has invested in cleaner steel for years, will have to buy emission allowances from more polluting industries, such as russia. so those who have not cared about the environment before, sell their emission rights to the people who cleaned up. so the cleaner ones pay the dirtier ones. a timely investment in the environment reduces the competitiveness of the most modern and cleanest factory. the one that performs better is less competitive. commissioner spidla, what are you going to do to ensure that in the emissions trading scheme the cleaner do not have to reward the dirtier? europe needs its own steel industry, it is the basis of our basic production and we must maintain our self-sufficiency. mr commissioner, could the commission consider ways of further alleviating the situation of this industry in some way within the framework of wto rules? the commission should also develop a thorough strategy for those vital areas where our self-sufficiency is important. could we increase research and development to improve the competitiveness of this sector? at the same time, it is of course essential that our trading partners, starting with the united states, join the kyoto agreement. (applause) i would like to thank the
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on research has been very unanimous on this issue, because we are convinced that only a long-term commitment to increase research funding through the seventh framework programme for research can help us to survive. we will link this to the lisbon objectives, as i have also seen the commissioner do. we therefore agree with commissioner potočnik. the problem is the member states. the member states' finance ministers, ecofin, those are our targets, and we should be grabbing them by the throat. only two member states have met the 3% research target, my own country being one of them. so we also have much housework to do. we therefore call on the commission to work with exceptional determination, and this is indeed, as you said, the first test, in fact a joint test for you and for us. the money will be doubled, but where will it go? this must be kept in mind at all times, for you cannot take money out of a shovel unless you know where to throw it. i'd like to know what specific areas. for example, what is the significance of the lack of digital literacy? it's been calculated that we're losing three hours a week because of that shortage. and here, they're extending the work week. in many cases, even these three hours would save our economy. at the same time, we must of course take account of enlargement. i am one of those who believe that the 1% budgetary framework will not be able to deal with enlargement and the lisbon process and many other things. we knew that enlargement would cost money and that the budget could not be reduced, but had to be at the same level as it has been up to now. finally, we need more education, more knowledge and more research. it's the only way out of this cycle, the cycle of competitiveness. (applause) i would like to thank the
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i am the rapporteur on eib loans and guarantees in the committee on budgets and i would therefore like to present the view of our committee on this matter. eib loans are a cheap way of supporting the economic development of non-eu countries. to this end, a transfer from the union budget to a dedicated guarantee fund is made annually to cover any credit losses incurred by the eib. credit losses have been minimal. the commission has also proposed that the amount of the guarantee be reduced to eur 100 million. the investment bank doesn't even ask for a 100% guarantee on all loans. it would also be justified to reduce the percentage by which the transfer from the eu budget to the guarantee fund is made. these changes could increase the proportion of eib lending that can be called development assistance to non-eu countries. we are waiting for the commission to come forward with a proposal to amend the conditions for using the guarantee fund and i would ask mr maystadt to confirm on behalf of the bank that these amendments could be justified and that the bank would have no objection to them. the last change to the global lending mandate, following the enlargement of the eu, did not give equal treatment to the union's neighbours to the north and east, but rather, the bank was leaning towards the mediterranean region, with the help of some southern countries. that's a situation that needs to be corrected in the future. we cannot accept that member states do not take all the regions close to the union into account in a balanced way, but instead seek to favour their own neighbours. the european investment bank should be the enabler of credit to all the neighbours of the union.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, we have referred this proposal for a regulation on access to natural gas transmission networks to parliament for a second reading. the two debates we have had have taken about a year, and in this respect it can be said that parliament has acted as quickly as possible under the present system. the result is satisfactory and is due to the good cooperation between the various political groups. as rapporteur, i would have liked to have two important points in the regulation which are not there at present. after the negotiations on access to the natural gas networks between all the parties in the so-called madrid forum, i would have liked the commission to continue to consult all the parties in this process when amending or supplementing the proposal for a regulation. the introduction of such an article was not possible for legal reasons. the legal services of all three institutions, the council, the commission and the parliament, were of the opinion that the preparation of legislation should be carried out by comitology procedure and that no outside consultation could be written into the legal text itself. the wise commission, which has a monopoly on the introduction of legislation vis-à-vis the council and parliament, will certainly keep the madrid forum together and listen with a sensitive ear to all its stakeholders. i expect the commission representative to convince us of that in this debate. the second point on which i would like to add an own article to the regulation concerns gas storage. the maintenance of warehouse monopolies prevents the full use of networks for the benefit of all parties and weakens competition on the market. when transmission networks are needed to transport gas from one country to another, the gas market can only function effectively if the same pipeline can transport gas sold by many producers and bought by many consumers. the key is therefore to share networks, or access to networks. the commission must find out what is at issue, given that gas prices have risen in some member states this winter in a way that is not the case in others. in parliament we are pleased that, at the end of the second reading, we have been able to put forward some suggestions for improvement to the council's common position, which we hope the council will accept. our aim in parliament has been to get the regulation into force as quickly as possible. it is hoped that this will help some member states to honour commitments they have made to secure access to gas networks in one place but have not implemented in another. we consider it important that this regulation should enter into force as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the previously agreed gas market guidelines are not being fully respected and this creates uncertainty. the conditions for access to the network also vary widely between network operators. the unfair conditions for access to the gas network are an obstacle to the functioning of the market in this sector. the internal market will not work without minimum standards for third party access. the commission has also proposed that the new guidelines be adopted by the end of the year. i would like to congratulate mr seppänen on the great work he has done to get this regulation through as quickly as possible, which was our aim. this regulation tests the member states' real willingness to give priority to the lisbon objectives. it is no wonder that the rapporteur had to undergo long and arduous negotiations with the council. the opening up of energy markets to competition is now a key aspect of the process which will benefit consumers in many member states, at least over time. for too long, too, some large member states have ignored the rules of the internal market. as a result, their energy giants have been able to charge higher prices to consumers as a protection against competition and, for example, to buy out smaller competitors with this additional cover, which then find themselves in a more difficult competitive situation than those who avoid it. the union must be determined to open up all areas of the energy sector to fair competition, including the natural gas transmission networks.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we ask the commission whether it is prepared to negotiate a voluntary agreement with oil companies operating in the european union to invest part of the unforeseen profits generated by the rise in oil prices in research and development of alternative energy sources. i haven't been able to get a straight answer to this. the question is even whether this makes sense. it has been pointed out that companies are already doing this, but it's on a small scale compared to how big of a question we're talking about now. national oil companies have always been very profitable, not by chance, and not just in the last year, but for decades. the $60 billion in profits last year is so incredible that it exceeds the budgets of many governments. in my country's case, twice as much. so it's more about the states than any company. the huge revenues are, of course, due to the growth of china and especially the situation in the middle east, the war there. there have been reports in the public press that oil companies have even sometimes been instrumental in bringing about a war or a conflict that would raise the price of oil. we know that there are also cartels in this sector and that it is not a very easy business. the middle east has been the scene of many wars over oil, and so our hands have been tainted by this very important commodity. the high oil prices are of course very damaging to the national economy and the question now is whether and how these profits are used for any rational purpose. we demand that they be used for research into alternative energies, which is ultimately, as mr chichester said, to the benefit of these companies themselves. this would also help us to redeem our share of the environmental targets. the commissioner said that it was difficult to intervene in companies. it is difficult because they are bigger than states, but i would urge courage, because we have a responsibility to the citizens of europe for the future of europe and indeed for the future of all humanity. this is why they are not small things. there are really two options: increase research or raise taxes. one or the other, maybe both.
the position of women in society, mr president, is not only about whether society is just and pleasant, but improving the position of women is one of the most effective ways of developing the whole of society and its stability. the status of women in developing countries is also linked to our security. the cia, the united states central intelligence agency, studied countries that had fallen into genocide and violence and found that high infant mortality is a clear indicator that a society is slipping into a cycle of domestic violence. the high infant mortality rate is of course a factor that has to do with the status of women. it has also been found that the terrorist groups we now fear so much recruit their members from where there are many unemployed young men with no prospects for a good future. such masses of unemployed youths are formed in countries with high birth rates. the fertility rate, on the other hand, decreases as women's social status improves, they receive education, information on birth control and their own earning opportunities. development cooperation policy must therefore also recognise that improving the position of women is one of the most effective ways of promoting development in general, but it can also contribute to stability and prevent the emergence of new crisis hotspots.
mr president, i shall concentrate on equality and equal pay in the eu. unfortunately, the european union has not made much progress on equal pay. i cannot think of a single case in recent years where gender equality in pay has been genuinely promoted. the council representative has just spoken and stated that the equality ministers of the eu countries are committed to developing strategies to promote women's employment and skills. like we women don't have skills. we may not have the skills to push this pay equity through, and that's where our skills should be developed. the time has come, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, to take action so that our own credibility is not completely destroyed and that we are able to fulfil the promises made to women, children and men. the eu could set itself the goal of achieving final pay equality within 10 years. finally, i would like to say that equality should not be thought of only on one day a year. international women's day must not be a day when women are glorified and then subjugated.
for the alde group mr president, the dombrovskis report on the guidelines for the 2006 budget for headings other than the commission, which is now before us, lays the foundations for the future budget of these institutions. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr dombrovskis, for a job well done. i would also like to thank anne elisabet jensen and salvador garriga polledo, who are presenting today mainly technical amendments to this year's budget, which they have been responsible for presenting. the european union is still in a period of adjustment in 2006. the integration of the new member states must be completed, as the rapporteur said in his opening speech. this means in particular updating human resources. the multilingualism requirements must also be met. the interpretation must be up-to-date in all respects and the translation service must be fluent. multilingualism is a great european value that must be cherished. at the same time, it is a clear demonstration that the european union, and in particular the european parliament, cherishes democratic values. only complete multilingualism will guarantee that every eu citizen can stand for election and be elected to the european parliament, regardless of his or her nationality, cultural background or education. the question of the place of work of the european parliament has recently been raised again. the current system is difficult, although it adds to the eu's multinational character. transport links to strasbourg are poor, as it is not a hub for international air traffic. in future, a natural solution should be found through good cooperation between the various parties. perhaps a good compromise can also be reached with france, a neighbouring country. the parliament's building policy has been so successful that it can now operate almost entirely in its own premises. this has been partly due to the economy of operating costs. the commission will continue to make sure that austerity remains a key objective of budgetary policy and economic management. this is also the aim of the report now before us, which stresses efficiency, reallocation of appropriations and interinstitutional cooperation. the report now before us therefore provides a good basis for the actual budget.
the key point of parliament's resolution, mr president, is the definition of european competitiveness. we link social and environmental sustainability with competitiveness. the commission is too narrow in its approach to competitiveness and employment. we social democrats are calling for social and environmental sustainability. and that's the way it is. in the long term, competitiveness is not sustainable unless it is based on social and environmental factors. is that possible? it is. for example, my own country is as competitive as the united states, with which we are often compared. at the same time, we have been able to maintain social and environmental sustainability, unlike the united states. as a result, we have a more equal, safer and environmentally sustainable society. competitiveness cannot be the advantage of the few, because the road to it is the control society, now the dictatorship of digital surveillance. as a member of the lisbon committee, i was disappointed that the report did not require the repeated publication of member states which have not implemented the lisbon legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i would therefore ask the media to publish now the member states which are deliberately avoiding implementation, so that people can contribute to implementation once they have been informed. that would be a sustainable development method too.
mr president, the forthcoming summit is doubly interesting from the point of view of sustainable development. the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy and the annual monitoring of the sustainable development programme are on the agenda. these two things go together. sustainable growth and competitiveness cannot be achieved without the highest possible level of environmental and social protection. the mid-term review of the sustainable development programme this year will need to establish an ambitious long-term strategy, directly linked to the lisbon strategy and also guiding the different policy areas of the european union. the spirit of cardiff must be revived and the sustainability of the various policies of the european union examined more intensively, and the factors of development leading to unsustainable trends addressed. particular attention will be paid to energy production, transport, land use and agriculture. new and longer-term steps must be taken to combat climate change. looking beyond kyoto, and achieving sustainable and follow-up targets for 2020. the sustainability strategy must also be accompanied by a price tag. we have to put a price on the cost of doing nothing. the cost of environmental protection measures is now the focus of attention. the european union must also continue to be a global leader in environmental policy. ambitious legislation combined with economic incentives is also a good combination to create demand for new environmental technologies.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr locatelli, for his excellent work. you wouldn't believe he's only just arrived in this parliament. the socialist group strongly supports the report and is grateful for the work that has been done. research is the key to achieving the lisbon objectives. we don't have natural resources here in europe. our natural resources are inside our heads. that's why it's a key question. there is a problem with basic research and technology communities, with cooperation between them and, in particular, with funding. it is only sensible to finance european research if it generates genuine european added value. it is therefore hardly appropriate to finance very small individual projects in the field of basic research, but rather to target support to projects that are too large, complex or risky to be funded by a single member state. in the context of the cooperative concept of the technology communities, or new industrial research, the assumption that the private sector would finance two thirds of the costs is not realistic in all cases. it is doubtful that private entities are prepared to finance such a large proportion of the funding of far-sighted and technologically advanced communities. an example is hydrogen and nanotechnology. in the major competitors of the union, such as the united states and japan, the share of public funding in these sectors is as high as 80%. we cannot afford to give away this competitive advantage to outsiders. we must therefore be prepared to support, where necessary, with public funds research projects which can only have a potential benefit in the long term. secondly, we must make r & d work for the benefit of smes. small and medium-sized enterprises do not have the resources for demanding research. however, they are flexible and can incorporate the results of research and development, and this could be the key to solving our employment problems. there are 19 million smes and we have 16 million unemployed.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, the itre committee has prepared an own-initiative report on european research policy, which is like a shopping list. the european parliament is ready to buy scientific research from these regions. my main message is this: our group supports the need to secure additional resources for scientific research. the commission's proposal for additional resources for the seventh framework programme is justified. there are areas where it is worthwhile to fund jointly. the benefits must not be limited to the economy. there are many social and ethical reasons for favouring basic research in university research institutes, free from the interests of big business and the military industry. the best way to promote joint research is to produce results that the englishman would use the word serendipity. it means that you're lucky to find something you didn't even know you were looking for. the conditions for serendipity must be created, and such conditions are best achieved through international cooperation. the best example of the mutual benefit of co-financing is the research on fusion energy in the so-called iter project. it's the thing where the greens confuse fission and fusion. no eu country is prepared to undertake fusion research on its own. when we work together, we create a project that would otherwise never have been possible. it is a way of making the benefits available to all involved. in the case of iter, non-eu countries are also beneficiaries. the framework programme of research must create the right conditions for serendipity.
mr president, mr commissioner, the sugar reform under discussion is a continuation of the reform of the agricultural policy. the main content of the proposal is a reduction in prices of almost 40% and a cut in quotas. this would be a price reduction of roughly eur 2,5 billion. since the industry consumes the majority of sugar, about 75%, the price reduction would hardly be reflected in the consumer prices of industrial products, but would mainly benefit the industry in the sector. the sugar reform has a feature that has not been present in previous agricultural reforms. it would be essential to be able to transfer sugar production quotas from one country to another. it is clear that sugar production would be shifted to the best growing regions and would end up in the most disadvantaged countries. there would be no benefit to the eu budget. such a solution would set a dangerous precedent. i urge you, mr commissioner, to refrain from such a lack of solidarity between member states. i was pleased to note that in your opening speech you were willing to revisit this detail.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to start, much like mr wynn, by thanking the secretariats of the committee on budgetary control, the ppe-de group and my colleagues for helping to push through this report. i would now like to raise five points in five minutes. the first point is that the aim of all these reports we are pushing through in the committee on budgetary control is to improve the control environment. having worked in a national administration myself, i can honestly say that i do not think that the control environment in any national administration is as strict and as tough as that which we have in the european parliament or in the european union in general. for example, i could easily find out what kind of wine commissioner kallas was drinking at a luncheon on 12 december: that is how much detail we can go into! i therefore find it a little sad that some people in this house are trying to use this report for populist means and are trying to dig up all the dirt. we tried to dig up all the dirt we possibly could and fortunately we did not find very much. my second point is that the report that i was pushing through dealt with six other ‘institutions’: the council, the european court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the ombudsman. they all passed with flying colours. i would nevertheless like to make two remarks, the first concerning the council. for the first time, we had a structured dialogue with the council in an informal setting and it worked out quite well. we obtained the information we needed and we can be thankful for that. however, i have a slight word of warning for the future: we are getting to a stage in european integration where external relations, especially the common foreign and security policy, are getting more important. this means that, in future, the cfsp budget of the council will not only be administrative but also executive. it will be particularly important for us to have a very close look at that when we start building the external relations service, to see how we can control it a little bit better. my other comment about the institutions relates to the court of auditors. a specific personnel case was dealt with there. my approach, and i think the approach of all the major groupings in the house, was not to humiliate the person in question and we wanted, therefore, to keep a low profile on it. we had a very good dialogue with the institution in question and the compromise we have put on the table hopefully satisfies all parties involved. my third point is that we had a very good dialogue with all the institutions. we obtained the information we needed and it worked out in many ways, but there is one thing i would particularly like to improve on and that is the timing of the report. the court of auditors came out with the report five minutes before our committee meeting and then we were supposed to have a discussion on it. it simply does not work. the president of the court of auditors comes and gives a 45-minute written statement and it is not necessarily the best way to start the dialogue, so perhaps we could improve on that just a little bit. coming to my final two points, the first is that the discussion we had in committee was very constructive and the report as such passed with flying colours. there are not many amendments to the particular report i presented, only three in fact. as rapporteur, i would like to reject them. i do not think that they reflect the discussion we had in the group. finally, there should be a fairly good agreement amongst the biggest groups in parliament on adopting this report. once again, i would like to thank all those involved in pushing it through.
for the verts/ale group mr president, malaria kills over a million people a year and affects at least 500 million people, mostly in africa. the worst affected are children and pregnant women. the fight against malaria is linked to the fight against poverty, but it must be remembered that the threat of malaria is projected to worsen with climate change. with global warming, malaria parasites are feared to spread to southern parts of europe and the united states, for example. that is why tackling climate change is also fighting malaria. recently, there has been a debate about the role of ddt in fighting malaria. the use of ddt to combat malaria is permitted, but we must not turn a blind eye to the dangers of ddt. ddt damages our reproductive system, affects the development of the brain in children, causes neurological disorders and weakens our resistance to disease. therefore, every effort should be made to promote the use of less dangerous forms of malaria control, such as natural enemies and bed nets containing ddt and insecticides.
mr president, we must get romania and bulgaria to join the eu, but how and when will that happen? firstly, i would have liked the council to have been more cooperative on financial matters. we have heard today that there are still many uncertainties and it would be better if we could still consider what the common position on these matters might be. in particular, we have problems with romania, and the question is whether it meets all the criteria. if romania is not required to meet all the criteria as all member states have done so far, it will be a bad example for future new member states, such as turkey. i was pleased to hear commissioner rehn's proposal that safeguard clauses should be introduced if the conditions are not sufficiently met and if romania does not make sufficient progress. i strongly support this view. it would have been more sensible to wait for the next progress report and then vote on these matters, not tomorrow. it is above all a question of public confidence, of the way in which the institutions comply with the rules and agreements. the growth and stability pact was recently watered down because it was seen as politically important. if the criteria for membership are now watered down because it is seen as politically important, it is difficult to imagine how citizens can have confidence in these institutions.
mr president, the commission promised us that the new, integrated guidelines take on board the recent decisions on the stability and growth pact. commissioner, you promised that you do not support procyclical reform in the member states, the level of public debt that is taken on board and so on. how will you make sure that the member states do not interpret the changes to the stability and growth pact in a very broad way, or introduce reforms that will actually broaden the concept of what can be calculated as excessive deficits and deficit calculations? there is a serious threat that many member states will try to avoid making those necessary reforms and will interpret these watered-down stability and growth pact decisions in the wrong way. i would like the commission to be very tough on this issue.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i will not thank mr pittella yet, i will thank him in december. this is the first mile of a long marathon in progress. the rapporteur has contacted the various groups and identified the priorities for the budget. in the gue/ngl group we attach importance to the promotion of social and economic cohesion and environmental policy. we support the rapporteur in her efforts to give these matters priority in the budget. our group has a great deal of understanding about securing payment appropriations large enough to finance the commitments made. we remind the council representatives that if there is no agreement on this budget or on the financial perspective for the coming years, the current treaty stipulates that the payment appropriations are in any case 1.06 per cent of gross national income. from the parliament's point of view, the council is not in favour of proposing payment appropriations below that. i would like to mention the financing of the natura 2000 programme, which is one of the priorities of the rapporteur. it is unclear how the money will be allocated for the purposes of the programme. i agree with the rapporteur that we must prepare carefully for the new areas of community support. at present, it is not known how the co-financing will be used for natura 2000 and what the correct cost allocation is between the member states and the union. it would be sensible for the member states with large populations and few natura sites to participate, through the eu, in protecting the common euro in the less populated countries. our group is opposed to any expenditure on the militarisation of the union or on propaganda for the federalisation of the union, financed by information activities under the cover of a smokescreen.
for the alde group mr president, the eu's regional and structural policy is based on article 158 of the treaty, which states that the community shall act to strengthen economic and social cohesion. the article is eu life insurance. it seeks to ensure that all regions benefit, that the 'win-win' principle is realised. it creates a justification for the existence of the eu as a whole. if certain regions or groups of people were to find themselves repeatedly excluded from the overall development, the eu would be less cohesive. when the ten newest member states joined the european union, their population grew by more than 20 per cent but their gross national income by only 5 per cent. for historical reasons, the per capita gdp of all the new member states was, in some cases, well below the eu average. the eu's regional and structural policies must therefore be directed to the new member states, and all new member states are therefore net beneficiaries in the beginning. the new member states have a significant contribution to make in the financial perspective and in the commission's plans, and in a few years they would receive more regional and structural policy funding than the old member states combined. this trend must be regarded as the right one. however, there is a risk that the weakest regions in the eu will lose out on regional and structural policy measures. however, they have not prospered and developed at all, even though even weaker areas have been added. there is therefore a risk that the eu's weakest regions will have to pay more for enlargement than the richest regions, because they are contributing to the eu budget in terms of gdp but are also losing the funding they receive. this seems to be particularly true in the sparsely populated northern regions of the eu.
mr president, sometimes i feel sorry for the beautiful city of lisbon. it has come to symbolize a goal that threatens to slip from european hands into a mere fantasy. lisbon does not deserve it any more than nizzakaa deserves to be the symbol of a bad compromise. but now we would have one more chance to reach out towards the lisbon strategy objectives. the draft directive on energy-using products, which is now being reviewed, is a good example of this possibility of either contributing to or undermining our objectives. the main concern for energy-using products is the increasing shift of manufacturing focus to china and elsewhere in asia. this negative trend for our industry and the environment may even accelerate in the future as a result of the relaxation of environmental and occupational safety standards in asia. the same trend is clearly visible in other sectors of our industry, including climate policy, where legislative decisions are pushing industry towards looser standards, thus undermining both the eu's competitiveness and the state of our environment. it is important that parliament should adopt this week a report which safeguards both environmentally friendly product design and the competitiveness of european industry. the compromise solution we have now reached and are voting on has been a successful process for the eu institutions, and i have also been an active supporter of the amendments that have been proposed. i would like to highlight two important points. it is essential, in the context of competitiveness, that article 95 be chosen as the legal basis for the directive in question. product requirements must be similar across europe to allow energy-using products to circulate freely within the internal market. another important decision was taken in the revision requirement: it would unnecessarily delay the entry of products on the market and would be particularly problematic in the electrical and electronic sector. i am glad that we have now found a compromise together, without compromising the objectives we have set for the next five-year period.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the political groups in this parliament, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for their excellent cooperation. the directive under consideration is historic: it limits emissions from ships for the first time. the background is annex vi to the marpol convention negotiated by the international maritime organisation (imo), which allows certain sea areas to be designated as sulphur emission control areas. they shall have a maximum sulphur content of 1,5% in marine fuel. this is about half the sulfur content of the bunker oil most commonly used in ships today, which has an average sulfur content of 2.7 percent. the commission is proposing to establish emission control zones in the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel. in addition, the same tyre-marking is provided for passenger cars. from 2010, ships may use fuel containing up to 0.1% sulphur when berthed in port. it is high time we restricted ship emissions. sulfur dioxide causes acid rain and is harmful to both our health and the environment. its extraction from land-based sources has been dramatically reduced. in my own country, finland, for example, these emissions have fallen to less than one seventh of their levels in the early 1980s. ships, on the other hand, are spewing more sulfur dioxide into the sky. a few years ago, the sulphur emissions from ships in the baltic sea exceeded the emissions of all of sweden. despite the limitations of this directive, sulphur emissions from ships at sea in the eu will exceed the combined emissions from power plants, factories and cars in all eu member states within 10 to 12 years. even after the new restrictions, the sulfur content of the ship's fuel can be as much as 300 times higher than that of a truck's tank, even in places where sulfur is restricted, such as the baltic sea. the difference is even greater in the mediterranean and other areas not affected by the new restriction. the sulphur emissions per tonne of cargo carried by freight ships are also many times higher than those of trucks. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the calculations made using computer models used by the commission show that this is a viable option. extending the 0.5% sulphur limit for marine fuel to all eu seas would bring health benefits, such as a reduction in asthma and allergies of at least two-fold, possibly up to ten-fold, compared to the cost. the council, however, rejected parliament's first reading additional requests. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances and preparations. in the negotiations with the council on the compromise of the second reading, many member states indicated their readiness to reject the whole reform. the subsequent stages of the emission limitation, as requested by parliament, could not therefore be incorporated in the directive itself. the commission has instead committed itself, in a separate declaration, to preparing new and stricter emission limits. the declaration makes clear reference to tightening the sulphur limit to 0.5% or less and to the use of economic controls. these issues will be addressed in the context of the 2008 revision of the directive. the directive also included a commitment by the commission and the council to promote the establishment of new sulphur emission control areas and the tightening of the sulphur limit within the imo. again, reference is made to the 0,5% sulphur limit. the commission and the council have therefore committed themselves to continuing to tighten the limits on emissions from ships, as parliament has called for. it is common to talk about acid rain in the context of sulphur dioxide emissions, which are harmful to nature and buildings, but they are also a serious and growing health problem. sulfur dioxide forms tiny particles in the air that damage our lungs. a recent study suggests that the number of people suffering from health problems caused by fine particles may be as high as double the previous estimates. nature is particularly vulnerable in the north, but human lungs are similar on the mediterranean and baltic coasts. the limitation of sulphur emissions from ships must therefore be continued. i trust that the commission and the council will stick to their commitments.
the good news, mr president, was that the spring summit decided to develop a long-term strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it was also decided to consider the setting of binding medium and long-term objectives. it is absolutely essential that steps are taken now to make ambitious proposals for the period after 2012. unfortunately, recent history has shown that it has been much easier for the european union to formulate and adopt ambitious objectives than to achieve them. if we are to have a successful start to the lisbon strategy, the european union should be seen as a new leader in all policy areas. the community's interest must be considered, the decisions agreed must be adhered to and action must be taken to ensure that all member states derive added value from european cooperation.
mr president, i voted against the recommendation for romania's membership today for the following reasons: in all the reports it has been made clear that romania does not yet fulfil the criteria for membership in critical areas. it's a pity we didn't decide to postpone the decision. in this situation i had no choice but to vote against, although in principle i am very much in favour of romania's membership. but i am strongly opposed to the sale of membership fees at a discount to which parliament has agreed today in its recommendation. the european union has a long history of supporting the right of asylum and the right to be heard. if we do not stick to the principles we have agreed on, we will be in a position to betray representative democracy and we will be severely restricting our ability to demand that the agreements be respected in the future.
mr president, i will focus on two key issues. i wish to begin by saying a few words about the european external action service. it is of the utmost importance that the service be situated in the commission. we must avoid all attempts to water down the new service by placing it primarily in the council. under no circumstances should the service be allowed to develop into an uncontrollable intergovernmental agency which starts to live a life of its own. only with maximum parliamentary accountability can we be assured that europe’s noble goals for the rest of the world are achieved. fighting poverty, defending democracy and advocating human rights are all issues in which we can, and must, cooperate based on common values. an intergovernmental service would be at risk of falling prey to many and more sectoral and strategic interests, and our common values and goals would be lost in the mix. secondly, we need to take both an ambitious and realistic approach to european foreign policy under the new constitution, if and when we get it. the constitution advances european foreign and security policy in many key respects and we must ensure that these commitments are upheld. even though the developments embodied in the constitution’s clauses of mutual solidarity – as well as in increased rapid reaction capability – are reflections of current practice rather than being innovations, we have to ensure that they are interpreted in an ambitious, concrete and binding fashion when they take effect. the inclusion of mutual security guarantees in the constitution should also be welcomed and consolidated. the opposition of some member states can be countered with a few simple arguments. nato is, and will remain, the backbone of european defence, there is no doubt about that. we proposed european guarantees simply to complement nato provisions with a much-needed european dimension. they also support and consolidate decades of european political and security cooperation, which has existed outside the scope of the eu. they do not constitute a radical rewriting of europe’s foreign and security ambitions: they simply establish that europe must finally be mature enough to begin matching its economic muscle with some political voice and commitment.
mr president, some member states in the council did not accept this compromise proposal, which was last discussed in parliament and in the council. will you be presenting a similar package again or do you have some suggestions for changes to this package and what are these possible suggestions for changes?
for the alde group mr president, as we know, sport alone does not have the means to tackle the doping problem. that is why this important work needs all of us. all those involved in the broad field of sport must be mobilized for the sake of true and pure values, from the grassroots level to the international sports organizations and the authorities organizing sport in different countries. this work is not confined to our continent of europe; it is a worldwide work. of course, as europeans, we want to take care first of all that our own home is in good repair, because it is difficult and quite unbelievable to teach others unless we ourselves live in harmony with the rules that have been agreed. the role and measures of the states are particularly important in order to be able to effectively prevent the illicit manufacture, import, export and distribution of doping substances. legislative cooperation to prevent the spread of doping substances and cooperation between authorities are means of effectively addressing and preventing the doping problem. the world anti-doping agency (wada) coordinates and develops the global fight against doping. the international olympic movement has been heavily involved in the administration of wada, but the role of the states has been weakened. the eu member states should be able to work together to balance the national contribution to wada and thus create more effective opportunities for wada to operate. the eu should not set up its own anti-doping agency, but should join the council of europe's anti-doping convention and thereby play a strong role in the whole of europe's anti-doping work. the un is also preparing a global anti-doping convention. the eu should actively monitor the preparation of the agreement and coordinate member states' views. the eu should play an active role in implementing, promoting and supporting the obligations of this future treaty, given the increased competence in the field of sport, i.e. the constitutional treaty and the resulting legal basis. the issue of doping is often a prominent part of the media coverage of sporting events. we must also maintain proportionality in this respect. as in any other part of society, there are and always will be those in sports who do not follow the common rules. however, we must do everything possible to promote clean sport and a culture of sport in the eu. we must always remember that sport is a positive thing, sport promotes people's health and well-being.
i would like to express my sympathy with the drought in portugal and my support for the resolution. but i'm going to talk about the underlying phenomenon, climate change. the subject is precisely the one on which the leading professors in the field of the environment in finland spoke at a seminar in parliament last week here in strasbourg. one of the topics we discussed was climate change. the seminar was also attended by the commission's directorate-general for research, who was genuinely delighted to see science and policy meet in parliament. this cooperation between scientists and politicians is welcome, but it is not a matter of course. the world is not designed to allow academic knowledge to flow to the politician from within. sometimes you have to go and get it. scientists don't have an immediate need to come and lobby us. although society supports academic research, unfortunately, this is the very information that is often overlooked by lawmakers. we often ask whether the drought of 2003, for example, is a sign of climate change. the researchers say the question is wrongly posed and cannot be answered unambiguously. but if you ask them if they expect more droughts, they'll say yes, if they expect more heat waves, they'll say yes, if they think modern society is becoming more and more vulnerable to radiation extremes, they'll say yes. so now it's time to act. we can no longer expect any more definite answers. now we need to have enough of this information to take ever more effective action to combat and slow down climate change. it is our top policy priority. the adaptation measures which must be pursued with determination, both by redefining the policy blocks and by investing in research, are also an essential part of this. we need, among other things, a proper forestry strategy for this situation. unfortunately, climate change cannot be avoided completely, but it is now essential to minimise the damage to people and property.
mr president, this report on the financial services action plan comes at an important time for the integration of financial markets in europe. as you have heard, parliament is unanimous on this issue and the vote in committee was almost unanimous. the past few years have been marked by much law-making. there are clear indications that markets now need time to digest what has been decided. as legislators, we should be extremely sensitive to this concern and focus our efforts on what is essential and beneficial. for its part, i hope the commission assumes a twofold strategy. first, in its capacity as a prime mover of community legislation, it is vital that the commission concentrates on non-legislative means to carry out measures in the financial markets wherever possible. apart from legislation currently under way, rigid laws should be considered only when absolutely necessary, i.e. after a comprehensive impact analysis shows that the intended objectives cannot be achieved through non-legislative means. this approach should take due account of evolving market practices and the principle of subsidiarity. secondly, in its role as eu executive, the commission should take a rigorous approach to enforcement. thirty-nine out of the 42 fsap measures have been adopted. however, many implementing measures have not, and transposition into national law is only beginning. the commission should start a benchmarking review of implementation in the member states with the aim of completing the eu financial architecture as agreed. the pace of integration in the financial markets has been far better than in many other areas. much of this is due to the expediency and flexibility inherent in the lamfalussy process. as we move beyond the fsap, however, the process itself should take into account the new environment in order to ensure that the appropriate balance of legislative and horizontal measures, structures of transparency, parliamentary control and stakeholder consultation improves further. for instance, structured dialogue between the eu and the us and other global capital markets could thus be better fed into the process, thereby strengthening both the european financial playing field as well as these relationships. as for the convergence between supervisory practices, we need to be realistic. the report before you sets out a useful strategy for creating lead supervisory practices in the eu. with a longer term perspective, provided that the parliamentary accountability of any new body thus created is guaranteed, we can see the benefits of moving towards a more uniform supervisory regime for financial markets. one possible option is a 26th european regime for supervision of global actors. all these options should be left open and used if the commission thinks it is necessary.
the rapporteur. mr president, my dear colleagues, my dear commissioner! the enlargement of the european union has raised the question of the union's visa policy in a new way, as we have just heard. citizens of several of the new member states are required to have a visa to travel to the united states, although us citizens do not need a visa to travel to the new member states. in these cases, the reciprocity between the countries is broken. it is easy to understand why citizens expect the union to work vigorously to promote free movement, especially since visa policy is harmonised and falls entirely within the commission's remit. the commission must therefore act as an icebreaker. a few months ago, former polish president lech walesa spent the night in a tent outside the white house in washington, d.c., protesting the u.s. visa requirement. the eu has a weapon for cases like these, namely the reciprocity mechanism. for example, poland and greece can notify the commission that reciprocity is not respected in their case in relation to the us. finland can do the same with regard to venezuela, etc. a notification would lead to the introduction of visa requirements for nationals of the respective third countries throughout the union, but the mechanism has not been used once because the consequences have been considered too far-reaching and difficult to manage. my report, which was approved by the committee responsible, proposes that the commission should have a set of tools. the eu should be able to resort to other sanctions and not just automatically introduce visa requirements. the report gives the individual member states a longer period, three months, to negotiate with the third country than the commission had proposed. i also propose that the commission take up the matter more rigorously. decisions on penalties shall not be deferred. the citizens of the member state concerned must be guaranteed that their case will be dealt with at the highest level and that it will result in a decision. a very large majority in the committee supported this line of argument. however, some members preferred the current mechanism and considered that it gives better results. i myself believe that the report's guidelines will lead to greater efficiency and results, strengthen the commission's negotiating position vis-à-vis third countries and provide citizens with greater transparency through the involvement of the european parliament. the report also contains a new element, one which i think the commission and the council should consider carefully. there are numerous cases, particularly at the eastern border of the union, where a third country has tightened the conditions for issuing visas at very short notice. there are examples of travellers being required to take out travel insurance in russian insurance companies only. lithuanian motorists are required to have special car insurance to cross into kaliningrad and must register with the local authorities within three days. in the same week that a shipping company was to start ferry services to st. petersburg, the visa rules were changed so that the company had to withdraw from the service. our students in russian universities do not automatically get a one-year visa and if you get your visa stolen, you end up in an excessively expensive bureaucratic rut. even small children have to present an hiv test to get a russian long-term visa, and so on. from the perspective of brussels, these issues may seem small, but they cause a lot of hassle and economic loss to those involved. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of national registration of vehicles with a maximum authorisation of two years. in fact, these cases are almost always about lack of reciprocity. since the eu is to work for our citizens, it is of the utmost importance that these problems are taken seriously, even if they may seem to be less important than the main issue, i.e. whether or not there is a visa requirement, as commissioner frattini argues. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. my report contains a proposal which can serve as a starting point. if this case had been referred earlier this year, the codecision procedure would have been in force. although the consultation procedure is now applied, the council and the commission have reason to reflect on the importance of taking parliament's amendments into account. it is also important that the commission quickly initiates a review of the consular instructions so that the application of the common visa rules is carried out in the same way in all member states. the storm around foreign minister joschka fischer in germany underlines this need. with these words i would like to thank all those who have helped me in the process, my colleagues, the commission and parliament's officials. i look forward to the debate that follows.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is an example of difficult legislation. but groundwater is one of our most important resources. protecting them must be taken seriously, since wars are increasingly fought over water resources. this proposal for a directive on the protection of groundwater, despite its shortcomings, should be adopted, in the view of my group. it complements the water framework directive, as has been pointed out. this is a difficult issue for the union as a whole. in my country, finland, there are thousands of small groundwater areas where contaminants that are now required to be tested will not be found in the near future. but we will comply with this law, even though we do not need it. i think it's our turn to find some reciprocity here. the groundwater resources of central europe are vast and are threatened by a variety of chemicals. the problem for the aquifers of the iberian peninsula is often seawater. we in the itre committee have produced a very good report, for which i thank my colleagues. unfortunately, the ppe-de group in the relevant envi committee has not agreed to support compromise proposal 94 as other groups have. this directive is needed. the first reading is only an intermediate stage, because the council's common position is very different. but it is worthwhile working together to ensure that groundwater is protected. it affects our quality of life, it affects agriculture, it affects people's entertainment, it affects our health. (applause from the centre)
mr president, as has already been said here, the renewal of the bathing water directive is very important. the question of what is european union competence and what is national competence has also been raised very strongly in this context. particular attention must be paid to the evolution of the different regions in relation to water bodies, as this determines to a large extent the way in which the different points of this bathing water directive are treated. for example, it is quite different from the point of view of recreational use, whether it is a seaside area where hundreds of people go for a swim, for example, or a 50 km river in lapland with canoes. these things don't have much to do with each other. these issues must be taken into account, but at the same time care must be taken to ensure that all europeans are offered the highest possible level of protection in relation to bathing waters.
mr president, we have a strategic directive in our hands because it reflects the fundamental difficulty of eu environmental policy, namely the great disparity in the circumstances of the member states. so we have to respond to it properly. i come from a country with 187,888 lakes. it is clear that we would be frustrated if the means were the same as in luxembourg, for example. it is therefore important, both from a rational and an environmental point of view, that we focus on the objectives, but leave the means to the member states. fortunately, the proposal gives more flexibility to the member states to define the bathing areas that are so-called eu beaches. in this respect, the definition of the common stock is a good one. in my country, it means reducing the administrative burden on the authorities without sacrificing quality control. we need this bathing water directive. the current directive is outdated and the reform reflects the current state of water hygiene better. however, there are many things in parliament's amendments which i cannot accept. the tightening of deadlines from 2015 to 2011 is problematic, inter alia, because of the timetables of the water framework directive. the most difficult of parliament's amendments is the intention to remove the category of satisfactory/adequate bathing water. it should be borne in mind that this was an essential condition for reaching the council's common position. the same problem is faced with the harmonization of the limits for coastal and freshwater waters. the different limit values have scientific basis and do not increase the risk to swimmers. the compromise proposal drawn up in parliament is a step in the right direction. if the category is not sufficient, there is a danger that the whole project will fail in the council. this would be a very unfortunate thing for the environment. some member states will probably prefer to let the project fall rather than agree to tightening the limits.
member of the commission. mr president, i am particularly pleased that the european community, having deposited its instrument of ratification on 17 february 2005, will now participate as a contracting party in the second meeting of the parties to the aarhus convention. the meeting will provide an opportunity to review the implementation of the convention and the protocol on pollutant release and transfer registers. the meeting of the parties will examine the measures taken by the parties to implement the convention, while the commission will report on the measures taken by the european community. the european community is making very satisfactory progress in this direction. in addition to the guidelines on access to information and public participation, significant progress has been made, in particular with the proposal for a regulation on the application of the aarhus convention to community bodies. proposals are also being considered for the adoption by the community of the protocol on pollutant release and transfer registers and for the adoption of a regulation establishing a european pollutant release and transfer register. the commission has also put forward a proposal on access to justice in environmental matters. the commission believes that in the coming years efforts should focus on implementation issues. it stresses the importance of incorporating the provisions of the convention into administrative practice so that they become operational in practice. in addition, we should also support the exchange of experience and good practice on electronic means of information, the clearing-house mechanism and access to justice. in this context, the compliance mechanism is also considered to be very important. we must therefore ensure that it is operated effectively. the commission will also stress the importance of institutional capacity building as a means of improving the implementation of the convention. in line with its commitment to promote the objectives of the convention, the commission took the necessary measures to provide for a financial contribution to the convention for 2005. the almaty agenda will also include the question of possible amendment of the convention in relation to its application to genetically modified organisms. in this respect, the commission will follow the negotiating directives of the council for the conduct of the negotiations and will make every effort to ensure that the discussions are conducted satisfactorily. in this connection, i believe it is particularly important to apply the procedures laid down for activities relating to genetically modified organisms under, for example, the cartagena protocol, and to promote the acquisition and exchange of experience. this can also include additional efforts to develop institutional capacity, particularly in the countries of eastern europe, the caucasus and central asia. the commission is particularly pleased with the interest shown by the european parliament, and in particular with the presence of three of its members, including two drafters of the århus proposals, as observers among the members of the community delegation in almaty. the commission will of course, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement, keep parliament regularly informed of the progress of the negotiations.
for the ppe-de group mr president, parliament has been working with the aarhus convention since 2000, when we received the commission's version of the first pillar of the convention, the right of citizens to environmental information. our line has always been ambitious and defended citizen participation. we are starting from the premise that nothing should restrict the citizen's right to information and to be heard on environmental matters. it is essential for the functioning of democracy in a world where environmental issues are playing an increasingly central role. the same principle applies to the alma ata meeting, where the issue of biosecurity is dealt with in the same spirit and with respect for the rights of citizens. that is why parliament demands that its delegation be properly consulted in the negotiations, because we have something to give. we want the decisions taken at the second conference of the parties to contribute to the implementation and development of the convention and to achieve synergy between the aarhus convention and the relevant multilateral environmental agreements such as the kyoto or cartagena agreements. the kyoto protocol on pollutant release and transfer registers will help to reduce pollution and promote sustainable development. the aim of the århus convention is to encourage public authorities and citizens to assume their individual and collective responsibility for protecting and improving the environment, in order to ensure the well-being of present and future generations. the aarhus convention is an important part of a functioning democracy. my group therefore does not think it right that these broad rights of citizens should be abused in the context of appeals, to deliberately slow down projects or to give room for fundraising campaigns by ngos. we cannot accept that the legislative work of political decision-makers should be stumbled over by the endless complaints of the ngos. it is not appropriate to make the right of appeal a perpetual motion. abuses like this would also undermine the very rights we are defending. we will therefore be careful in future in the way the community applies the law to appeals.
for the verts/ale group mr president, last autumn the finnish magazine talouselämä wrote that if there were a ceo on earth, he would have already started strong action to reduce emissions, much stronger than kyoto. a recent article in new scientist magazine of great britain expressed surprise at the indifference of policymakers to the warnings of climate scientists. the magazine asked whether policymakers imagine living in an alternative universe where the laws of nature do not apply, and it went on to say that the threat of economic collapse would never be so reckless. after kyoto, we need much stronger emission reductions, and more countries need to be involved. the most economically important developing countries, such as china and india, are also needed. but above all, the united states, the world's biggest polluter, must accept its responsibility. it is unreasonable to imagine that china and india will join in if the richest country on earth remains a free traveller. the industrial countries must recognise their historical responsibility for the fact that climate change has actually started, and therefore the main responsibility for reducing emissions lies with us. countries that have not ratified kyoto are trying to gain an unfair competitive advantage. the question of whether protective tariffs can be imposed on european steel produced in the united states, for example, must be seriously considered. the wto rules make this possible. fortunately, the united states also has a voice of reason. many states have decided to take action. the northeastern states are embarking on carbon trading and want to join the european union's emissions trading scheme. a number of mayors have committed themselves to local action and are trying to involve 141 cities, the same number of cities as the countries that have ratified kyoto. but since mere rhetoric does not seem to be enough to make the us shoulder its global responsibilities, the steps that wto rules allow should be seriously considered. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety last week adopted my amendment on the wto, in which i propose that government experts examine the possibility of imposing trade sanctions at wto level on those who will be excluded from the kyoto agreement in the future, already in the kyoto ii period. the format is tight, i'll give you that. but it should be noted that this is not a matter of sanctioning anyone, but of proposing to examine this possibility in the event of a counter-offence. to do this, we need new game-changers and moves, and courage, in the climate debate. so i ask you, shouldn't we take a step that makes free travel impossible and uncomfortable? i hope we will also see the weaknesses of the kyoto protocol so that we can learn from them and have much more effective weapons to combat climate change by 2012. we must admit that kyoto is now at an impasse, because the global front is missing, partly because there are no borders for the developing countries and partly because there are powerful saviours outside. it makes kyoto inefficient and leads to distortions of competition and carbon leakage. even if we do everything we can in the eu, it is estimated that in the coming decades the eu-25's share of emissions will fall to less than 10%, while developing countries will increase their share to over half of all emissions. if we do not widen the front, the eu's efforts will be meaningless. but even the eu itself is not immune from my wto proposal if it fails to meet its obligations. the eu's progress in reducing emissions has come to a standstill once the easiest reductions have been achieved. nine of the 15 old member states have exceeded their own kyoto target by more than 20%. if we do not come up with something radical, we too risk being forced to admit the impossibility of the situation.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr bini smaghi on his nomination. i look forward to working with him. however, i have some comments. first, regarding the stability and growth pact, mr bini smaghi’s answers to the committee on economic and monetary affairs revealed some inconsistencies in judgement, which i wish briefly to point out. while his commentary on the legal uncertainties of the old sgp is valid, his interpretation of the dynamic conditions leading to the reform of the pact is questionable. mr bini smaghi seems to imply that the pact’s own rigidities led to certain member states breaking its rules and that the politics of the sgp made sensible economics impossible. this is disappointing from someone about to be installed at the ecb. the truth is that the sgp was torn apart by the political inability of some member states to conduct sensible economic policies on the basis of the rules agreed to by all, long after they came into effect. i would remind mr bini smaghi that without effective rules that are equally applicable to all, the eu would be nothing but a loose grouping with weak powers of coordination. surely, as a member of the ecb board, he cannot favour development that would increase economic asymmetry between eurozone member states. secondly, regarding his nomination itself, the rules that govern which eurozone member states obtain seats on the ecb board need to be clarified. they should be based on genuinely open mechanisms of selecting nominees. the present system too often seems to favour automatic entry for candidates from big eurozone member states at the direct expense of smaller ones. smaller member states are excluded from the backroom deals that decide the posts. this is truly regrettable and potentially damaging in the long run. with these qualifications in mind, i once again congratulate mr bini smaghi on his nomination. i am not against his nomination but i am concerned about the more general circumstances surrounding it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications can open up new possibilities. the aim of the directive is to remove the obstacles to the free movement of persons and services between eu countries. in practice, therefore, the aim is to create the possibility of pursuing one's profession in a country other than the one in which one acquired his professional qualifications. it is perfectly justified that the same qualification criteria as those applied to nationals of the host country should apply to the professional. the professional must demonstrate that he has a sufficient level of training. the host member state should be able to require the professional to have sufficient language skills. the importance of language skills is particularly important in areas of healthcare where serious health and safety problems can arise if a patient is unable to communicate in his or her own language. the liberalisation of markets and mobility must not be promoted at the expense of patient safety and consumer protection. in determining the level of qualification, attention should also be paid to the quality of training, not just the duration. the recognition of qualifications in another eu country cannot be limited to a few months, provided that the education systems and the quality of education are otherwise similar. (applause) i would like to thank the
we have been told that coreper discussed this issue today and it will be dealt with in the legal services of the council and parliament and then adopted at the 23 may council meeting. can you assure us that when that final decision of the council is taken, we will have access to full documentation before parliament has to make its final decision? can you promise that we will get all the information on this, and can you confirm that timetable?
for the alde group mr president, i would first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr dombrovskis, on his excellent report. the budget of the european parliament is a difficult budget to administer, requiring a thorough knowledge of the working methods and procedures of the european parliament. the rapporteur has done a good job in this respect, as is shown by the small number of amendments. i want to wish you success in the future. the budget of the european parliament is still marked by the shortcomings of enlargement. although the new member states have been involved for over a year, a significant part of the posts created for them is still to be filled. the parliament's administration even estimates that perhaps only less than 80% will be fulfilled by the end of the year. the situation seems to be particularly difficult in the language sector. since multilingualism and good language service are essential for the democratic functioning of the european parliament, due attention should be paid to the fluency and efficiency of the language service. the rapporteur rightly pays attention to the way the budget is presented. it requires constant development. the budget of the european parliament, like the commission's budget, must be developed in a functional direction which clarifies and reinforces personal responsibility. the proposal should clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of the action. in the future, therefore, various indicators will be developed to enable the analysis of activities. it is particularly important to pay attention to the efficiency of parliament's own work. the raising the game reform is particularly important for parliamentarians. they have to decide on more complicated matters than ever. therefore, additional support for legislative work is necessary. parliament's budget has traditionally been kept at around 20% of administrative expenditure. since parliament's expenditure has been kept under control, particularly as a result of a good real estate policy, the margin of manoeuvre seems to be quite large at the moment, up to eur 90 million. since there is a surplus from last year, it is impossible at this stage to predict what the real needs are. therefore, the final decision on the reservation must be postponed until autumn. there is no need to inflate parliament's budget unless there are real reasons for doing so. the 20% limit is not a target to be pursued, but a ceiling to be set. the present report provides a good basis for further work.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you for looking rather enthusiastic, though i have my suspicions that you would much rather be eating asparagus with the rest of the house at this moment. i have three general points. first of all, i think that this is probably the most important institutional question that we will face within the next four to five years. it is really about executive power: it is about who runs foreign policy – the commission or the council. i am very happy that the member states have taken the issue forward. i am happy that they have provided five fiches for the antici group; i am happy that they have been dealt with in the coreper meetings; and i am also happy that the commission has had confessionals with the member states. most of all, i am happy that, in the european parliament, we have brought the debate and the discussion out into the open. the second point i wanted to make is that i think an external relations service for all of us will bring only benefits. in many ways, this whole issue has only winners. it is about providing us with better consular services; it is about providing us with better reporting; and, in general, it is about providing us with a better common and foreign security policy. because, as we all know, without a functioning civil service on a european level, it cannot work. the third point i wanted to make – and this is to reiterate what mr méndez de vigo and mr brok said – is that there are two key issues that we are looking at from this side. the first is that, even though the system might be sui generis, it is very important that two things remain with the commission: one is the budget and the second is general administration. to finish off, i would like to say to the commission that i hope they stay very firm to the end, because we have to avoid the counter-contamination of issues such as trade and development going over to the intergovernmental and council side. never underestimate the capacity of the council secretariat to pull the rug out from underneath the commission – they will do it if they get a chance. (applause)
the author. mr president, many peoples share the same linguistic roots. it involves valuing one's own mother tongue, and using one's own language creates a sense of security. your language is the foundation of your culture. culture is language-related and language is culture-related. certain events in the mari el region of russia have aroused our attention, the mari language relatives of finnish-ugric, to the position of minority nationalities and minority languages in russia. it's also about democracy. democracy is not just about voting. democracy also means preparing matters together and being able to use one's own language. certain incidents in mari el that appear to involve violence and human rights violations must be investigated by local criminal authorities. it will increase russia's credibility as a state governed by the rule of law. the european union has three finno-ugric nation states, and russia has three million people of finno-ugric origin. there are seven countries in europe with a smaller population than russia has finnish-ugric peoples. however, these representatives of the finno-ugric peoples of russia are distributed in many regions of the vast country. in this context, it is possible to speak more generally about safeguarding the status of minority nationalities and languages in russia. we hope that the russian government will support more education and learning in its own language. the diversity of cultures and languages is russia's great wealth and we hope that it will be used better and more than ever.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.– madam president, as a fan of liverpool football club i must say that i was happy to come over here after the first half, because ac milan is currently 3-0 ahead in the champions’ league final. commissioner, i would like to raise three points for you. first, i welcome the commission’s proposal. it strikes a good balance on two accounts: it pushes forward the internal market by making it easier for food manufacturers to trade across borders; and it enhances consumer protection and gives us more safety and confidence. my second point is perhaps a slight criticism of the commission relating to the part of the proposal where the commission says it should apply to matters that are as yet undefined. in my mind that would amount to giving a blank cheque. my argument would be that if you know the substances, tell us. if you do not know, come back. perhaps that is something you could rectify at second reading, commissioner. finally, it is important to harmonise those vitamins and minerals that can and cannot be added and the quantities involved. at the same time, it is important that member states be able to impose some restrictions, as long as they are based on scientific evidence that there is a real risk to public health. i think the proposal is sound, especially in the light of the european parliament’s amendments.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.– madam president, for the italian and the english booths: the match is now 3-3, with about ten minutes to go. i knew that the chairman of the committee on the internal market would be happy about that, not probably as a liverpudlian but otherwise. i have three points. first, i will tell the commission right off the bat that i am a federalist, but what the commission is proposing here is simply going too far. it is over-regulation. i wish to focus especially on article 4, which is one of the most illiberal proposals to pass through this house. it is not our job to tell the consumer what is good or what is bad. that is up to the consumer himself or herself to decide. i have quite a lot of faith in the individual to be able to make his or her own decisions on what food should or should not be eaten. the key is to know the content and then you can make your own choice. if we put in nutrient profiles, it might prevent the consumers from getting the right information. my second point is that i believe diets themselves are more important than the nutrient profiles of individual foods. different people have different dietary needs, just as mrs niebler told us earlier. my third and final point is that it is very important to have clear labels and better information. however, i cannot support needless legislation or the assumption that people do not understand what is said on the label. therefore, i would argue very strongly that we should remove article 4 from the original commission proposal and we adopt article 11 along the lines that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has suggested.
for the alde group mr president, the schierhuber report under consideration is important because it lays down the rules for financing the common agricultural policy. we know that almost half of the current eu budget is spent on this purpose. mrs schierhuber has produced a very good report, and i should like to thank her for it. the common agricultural policy has so far been financed through the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund. the fund's been a little tricky to manage. the fund is divided into two different sections, which have been affected by different rules. as part of the general reform of the agricultural policy, two separate funds are now to be set up: the european agricultural guarantee fund and the rural development fund. the aim of the single management and control system for both funds is to simplify and improve the efficiency of management. we know that the present bureaucratic and inefficient administration is likely to make matters worse. in order to ensure sound financial management, the commission proposes to extend the time limits within which recovery of funds wrongly paid or wrongly justified may be initiated. however, the committee returned to shortening the deadlines. i would have liked to have had a longer deadline. however, since the regulation is quite extensive and contains many significant improvements, also in terms of financial control, i am prepared to accept the overall proposal.
mr president, i wish to congratulate mr goebbels on his report. it makes essential remarks on where european decision-makers need to concentrate their efforts in the coming years. i wish to pick up on a few points mentioned in the report. first, it is the big eurozone countries that are in serious need of reform. last week’s elections in germany and the forthcoming referendum in france are sending strong signals that voters are unhappy with their governments’ handling of the economy. another important signal: finland now has the lowest real interest rates in europe, historically beating even the traditional yardstick, germany, in the price of capital. reform is the key to european competitiveness and employment growth. collective wage negotiations should be reformed to take greater account of productivity growth. the entry of women into the job market also needs to be enhanced. i would also like to express my strong support for the amendments tabled to the report by my colleague, mr hökmark, on behalf of the ppe-de group. we must continue to emphasise the importance of reducing unemployment by strengthening growth and increasing investment and competition, the level of service and the range of choices available to citizens. entrepreneurship should be encouraged, for example through a fiscal framework favourable to smes, and equal opportunities should be offered to both women and men. the idea of a flexible and secure labour market open to all citizens is an excellent one. we must not allow our stagnating rules and practices to hinder those who are willing to work from entering or staying in the labour market. europe needs people willing to work today, and increasingly so in the years to come. we should encourage our citizens to work by reforming our tax systems, for example by reducing the burden on low-wage earners. i hope the commission will take the points made by parliament seriously.
mr president, i would have preferred to vote against amendment 61, which concerned politically exposed persons. i would have preferred the commission’s original version, which says that only complex and substantial transactions in the market should fall under the politically exposed persons category. the commission’s original version on that point would have been much better than the compromise that was accepted.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the transeuropean networks are of great importance for the lisbon objectives. the energy is synergistic. in the energy sector, the ten-t networks play an important role in liberalising the union's internal market and improving operational security, by connecting the eu to suppliers outside the union. however, energy networks should not be treated in the same way as transeuropean transport networks. transport networks are public infrastructure, while ten energy networks are privately owned. therefore, public funds should be used for energy networks mainly for project design and research. in any event, for the union's energy networks, this amount is so small that it is not decisive for investment decisions. nor would a coordinator be of much value, for that would create yet another level of organization. in the know-how, even a small investment would pay off. as regards certain details in the report, i have doubts about the designation of the priority projects proposed by the commission. the preparation of these has not been systematic but rather rather rather random. so let us not emphasize the status of specific projects but above all the union-wide surveys of where it is worth investing. we must, however, ensure that energy security leads not to waste but to savings. a recent calculation shows that all energy sources, except renewable, could run out within a couple of generations, depending on the level of consumption.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to thank members for a fruitful debate. however, we should be very honest in looking at the trans-european networks in the energy field. it is clearly a necessity because the security of our energy supplies depends on our energy networks, and on interconnection as the most important part of it. when we speak about a competitive market, again interconnection is an absolute necessity. from this point of view, i cannot accept that there should be no policies at the european level. so the guidelines are clearly there to justify our approach. we spend eur 20 million a year on trans-european energy networks. the money is for feasibility studies and perhaps in the future we can provide support for the projects. there have been advocates from the baltic states for particular projects. at this stage it is clear, as one member said, that the baltic states are like an isolated island: there is no interconnection of electricity. there will be interconnection from estonia to finland. however, the powerbridge project between lithuania and poland will never be a reality unless there is community support for trans-european networks in energy. i strongly advocate the approach we have delivered. concerning broader support for energy, we definitely need to diversify our supplies. for this reason we are working with all the countries and also with azerbaijan, which i visited. no european company was involved, but we need to be involved from the beginning. four countries have signed the treaty. the commission could not do so, but we are interested in this project because it concerns oil that that will be used by customers. we are interested in gas supplies but, at the same time, as we are not financing the project we cannot expect to take all the credit. therefore, we are thinking about diversifying our security supplies. at the same time, as i mentioned, the main sources of investment are from private investors. therefore the private investors should invest in the project and the commission, through these guidelines, should provide the necessary political input. so i am very grateful for today’s debate. we will continue our work. i wish to thank in particular the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze. as concerns olefin and amendment 39, i am sorry to say that at this stage the commission simply notes the importance of olefin networks, without going into detail about the priority sections of this network, which will have to be assessed by the european investment bank for every specific proposal for financing. therefore, the commission does not propose a financing intervention by means of european community money. for this reason, we cannot support amendment 39. however, as i mentioned, the commission’s and parliament’s proposal are very close. i wish to thank parliament again for its very close cooperation.
member of the commission. first of all i would like to thank mrs rothe for her excellent work in producing this report. i would also like to thank the other members of the committee on industry, research and energy who have drafted amendments and worked to improve the commission proposal. many of these amendments will strengthen and add coherence to the proposal. as you know, i consider energy efficiency in the union to be a priority area for community energy policy. i am gratified that the european parliament strongly shares this view. the proposal for a directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services can prove to be one of the most effective tools at our disposal, not only as a means of combating climate change and improving competitiveness, but for improving our security of supply, increasing employment within the eu and establishing a viable market for energy efficiency. as you know the commission is also in the process of preparing a green paper on energy efficiency. this paper is designed to stimulate public debate on the usefulness of improving energy efficiency in the european union and the best way to do this. the debate on the green paper will also focus attention on the energy services proposal and on its role. the proposal for a directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services has several important objectives and means to achieve these objectives: it sets uniform energy savings targets to be achieved in each member state through improved energy efficiency and energy services; it is also designed to stimulate market development for energy services and for energy efficiency in general; it applies to distribution and retail sales to most final customers of most types of end-use energy, such as electricity, gas, district heating, heating oil, and most of the transport fuel sector. it is ‘fuel neutral’ in that it seeks to improve energy efficiency regardless of the primary energy involved. we have also proposed that member states place an obligation on their energy distributors or retailers above a certain size, requiring them to offer their end-use customers energy efficiency measures or, alternatively, fulfil other energy efficiency obligations, while allowing the necessary flexibility. the proposal also sets forth requirements for member states to promote financial instruments for saving energy, such as performance contracting and third-party financing contracts; to improve metering and consumer information; and to promote the certification of energy service providers and improve the quality and use of energy audits. the proposal also provides for member state regulators to improve their distribution tariff structures when possible, in order to promote energy efficiency. two issues that were discussed extensively in the european parliament and in the council were the compulsory character of the targets and the measurement systems for energy efficiency achievements. throughout the debates in parliament and in the council, the commission has maintained its position on the importance of mandatory targets, for both the overall target and for the public sector target. as regards measuring efficiency, mrs rothe’s report points out that a system with bottom-up measurement provides the necessary accuracy and robustness and can be further developed with comitology. we also believe that comitology is the way forward because these issues would be too technical and detailed for coping with in the codecision process. we do, however, see a need to maintain some top-down measurements. i will have the opportunity later to comment in more detail on the amendments put forward to this house but i would like already to say that the parliamentary debates in committee have been extremely constructive, and that we have appreciated in particular the efforts of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs in developing a coherent and consistent report, with many constructive amendment proposals. i look forward to the debate you will have on the proposal.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, we are dealing with a subject which is central to climate policy. the energy services directive is intended to complement the emissions trading directive by targeting savings to areas outside it and continuing the energy saving process at the level of energy end-users. i myself, as the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, wished that this would have given us the opportunity to correct the problems and distortions of competition which the emissions trading directive contains. there is a lot of good in the directive now, for which i thank mr roth, but i will touch on its biggest problem. i was opposed to the last to the common energy saving targets for all member states because i thought they would punish countries which had been saving energy for a long time. paradoxically, perhaps, by treating the member states as one, we are putting them on an unequal footing. i would therefore like to return the article on the savings obligation to the commission in order to create a system which takes account of the different saving potential of each country. the committee on the environment endorsed the commission's similar savings targets. i'm not against the ambition of the savings. i'm against the unfairness of the savings. once again, they are being misdirected. some are given a very strict goal, others a ridiculously easy one. my own country, finland, which has been investing for years in energy efficiency, is facing a very different challenge from poland, for example. in the common market, this is a distortion of competition, whereby measures already taken are not sufficiently taken into account and member states are not given sufficient room for manoeuvre. the proposal mentions taking account of early measures in the reduction of a fixed common target, but until the method of verifying savings is unequivocally clear, no one can know what measures will be adopted. in my model, the european-wide saving potential would have been taken under consideration and allocated by country to each of its saving potential. we would have been even more ambitious than we are now. and best of all, in a sustainable way. i'm sorry we have a weak compromise on our hands. the matter may have been considered urgent, but the urgency could backfire with the council, even to the point of mediation.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a global economy. my group supports any energy savings that are possible. they are essential if we are to meet the kyoto targets and reduce our dependence on energy imports. mr rothe has done a great job, thank you for that. he's got a pretty wide base of support for his performance. the compromise was not easy to achieve, but it now has the support of the main political groups. the proposal under consideration is ambitious, in particular the proposals for energy saving targets are even stricter than the commission's proposal. the european objectives are a good thing. we have seen that without them the member states are in practice shirking their responsibilities. the fact is, however, that the member states are in a very different position in this respect. this is going to be very expensive for my country, because we have had significant savings measures in place for a long time. in fact, we have moved too early and now we are paying for it a second time. thus, even the annual 1% savings target is unfair, because in finland it represents an additional eur 450 million billion to the current funding for energy savings. i hope very much that this will change and that one day we will all be ready to support directives which seem necessary but which, in the unfavourable circumstances, will cost our own country a great deal. i would point out that we have implemented all the directives relating to the lisbon process.
for the verts/ale group mr president, many thanks to the rapporteur, mr brepoels, for his excellent work and good cooperation with the political groups. the council of ministers wanted to impose too many restrictions on the public's access to information. we support the rapporteur in her decision that this was not accepted and that the compromise at first reading was therefore not reached. it is sensible to create a database which will make existing environmental information available to a wider and more diverse audience. the greens want to emphasise that citizens should have the right to freely access to information relevant to their lives and health, for example on environmental pollution, even if many polluters do not like it. and while it is important for many public authorities to receive revenue from the information they generate when it is used for commercial purposes, it is important that citizens have free access to the information they need for their own lives and health.
mr president, the success of community environmental policy depends on the availability of reliable scientific information and the smooth transmission of that information. the availability of spatial data is a basic prerequisite for scientific evaluation under environmental legislation. the standardisation of spatial data collected by the member states is not yet very advanced, as there are still significant obstacles at community level to the exploitation of the data already available. the use and availability of spatial data will therefore be further improved to facilitate policy design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. the aim is to provide an adequate information base for decision-making on environmental policies and thus to promote sustainable development. that's the goal. the community already has some tools at its disposal to initially promote access to reliable data, in particular public sector data, and subsequently to harmonise data for comparability at community level. one of them is the directive on public access to environmental information, for which i myself was the rapporteur. the problems identified in its handling should now be taken into account when we consider the present proposal for a directive establishing a legal framework for the establishment of a european spatial information infrastructure. one of the problems with both of these directives is that it is feared that it will cause loss of income for providers of certain data. i therefore urge you to be precise now to avoid any surprises. the main objective is to reduce the obstacles that hinder the sharing of environmental data between public authorities. the community spatial information infrastructure complements the directives on the re-use of public sector information and on public access to environmental information. i personally think it is very important that the creation of spatial information infrastructure should focus specifically on environmental policy, so that there are practical grounds for the centralisation of information.
for the alde group mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the cap. i would like to thank you for that and for the constructive cooperation that has been established in the committee on agriculture. the focus of eu agricultural policy is shifting to rural development, as direct aids and market measures are strictly confined to the so-called brussels compromise. direct payments and market measures are to be cut by around 5% per year, or eur 1.5 billion, for the eafrd. the eu's future financial frameworks for rural development total more than eur 11 billion per year. but the need is loud. the commission proposed measures under three priority axes: improving the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry; improving land use, i.e. the countryside and the environment; and diversifying rural economies and improving the quality of life in rural areas. the commission proposed a minimum amount of funding for each priority. the committee set these limits as low as possible, since member states must be given sufficient flexibility to draw up their own country programmes. the main task of the eafrd is to improve the competitive conditions for agriculture across the eu. this makes it all the more timely to develop lfa support, for example, since the general cap support is mainly directed to the best farming regions in the eu. similarly, environmental support for agriculture is becoming more important as environmental issues become more topical. the purpose of the rural development fund is to improve the living conditions of rural people. my group therefore believes that the aid must be directed specifically to individuals and the organisations they have set up, not to the state. the support for enterprises should also focus specifically on micro and small enterprises. in these remarks we warmly support the adoption of the schierhuber report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the european fight against terrorism it is important to combine forces at national level and at the same time to strengthen cooperation between the union's institutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. many of the measures which already contribute to reducing the vulnerability of our societies are intrinsically linked to the fight against terrorism. the commission has also been active in the field of safety in industrial operations and in the field of emergency services, where it has been able to cooperate effectively and exchange information. terrorist acts are tragic and, as their name suggests, designed to spread fear and panic. the european societies must therefore be strengthened from within, in their structures and their culture of action, so that the opportunities for terrorism to operate are reduced. transparency in government and awareness of the environment, including its risks, among citizens are key factors in this respect. you also need to know how to respond properly and effectively in an emergency. the vulnerability of infrastructure must be reduced by decisive action and the exchange of information on risks arising within the different administrative areas must be increased. it is essential that eu research activities are also developed in the right way to support the fight against terrorism. it is necessary to ensure that the union's contributions to research in the field of internal and external security are in a proper dialogue with each other. effective counter-terrorism operations can only be successful when they combine the best of european expertise, defence and rescue research and other security research.
mr president, i wish to begin with a personal remark addressed to commissioner frattini. i should like to thank him for his work, as the foreign minister of italy, in the constitutional igc during the second half of 2003. at that time i was a civil servant in the finnish delegation. he did an excellent job, not least in communitarising justice and home affairs, and that is why i hope we will get this constitution through. i have five very brief points. firstly, there is a very close balance between individual liberty and security and we have to be very careful when we deal with it in relation to terrorism. that is why i reject the initiative on retention of data and support the position of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. my second point is that the fight against terrorism is really an area where the european union has value added; it is an area where the member states cannot and will not be able to operate alone. my third point is that it is also an area where action is demanded. if we look at any eurobarometer opinion polls, we see that this is an area where the european union can work quite well. my fourth point is that this could also be our next success story, but it all depends on whether we are able to implement it. that is why i call upon the commission to push very hard both for the tampere agenda and now the hague agenda and get the member states to implement measures to continue the fight against terrorism. my final and fifth point concerns the constitution. article 43 of the constitution is a key article. it is the one that deals with solidarity. if one member state is faced with a terrorist attack, all the other member states are required to help out. that solidarity clause, though not yet implemented, worked rather well in the face of the madrid attacks. i would really like the member states and the commission to stick to that principle.
mr president, i want to express my enthusiastic support for mr alvaro's report. it would be an act of folly if the proposed data retention scheme went through in its current form. cybercrime is a real plague, threatening to compromise the stability and security of our information systems. it needs to be targeted with meaningful controls. however, burdening telecommunications companies and internet service providers with the cost of storing all data they process for one year is a poorly considered response, a shot in the dark. regardless of whether those transactions and communications go on record, the true criminal, one who is committed to avoiding easy detection, will know how to cover his tracks. in any case, given the volume of data that would have to be retained, particularly internet data, it is unlikely that the comprehensive analysis of the data would ever be carried out in time to be of any use. we have seen clear indications that it was not for lack of data that us security agencies missed important clues in the lead up to the 11 september attacks, but rather that they lacked manpower to transcribe, translate and analyse the material. some have argued that the cost of data retention should be borne by governments, not companies. either way it is a waste of money. aside from the negative financial consequences, the system would infringe indivual privacy, as many colleagues have agreed. the european convention on human rights gives us clear guidelines, enforced by the european court of justice, on when this data can be stored. the proposed blanket scheme does not give any proper criteria that would meet the convention on human rights. i call upon my colleagues to follow mr alvaro in bringing this proposal to a swift and complete end. elsewhere, terrorism proposals have been in line with proportionality, but not in mr alvaro’s report.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to one detail that is often overlooked when talking about terrorism. terrorists fund their operations through traditional means, through traditional crimes. that is why ordinary police work is also important in the fight against terrorism. the traditional police work continues at european level. europol has not become the authority that its name suggests, operating throughout the member state. it is still an agency without adequate resources and effective powers. the national police forces withhold information from the authorities of other countries because there is not yet genuine trust between member states. the exchange of information and the building of trust would also increase transparency, which is also what is required in this debate. in the present climate, there can be no functioning europol. but it is necessary for the security of other forms of european cooperation.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i have had the opportunity to follow closely the enormous amount of work that has gone into this report by mr böge. it is not his fault that our group does not accept the report of the temporary committee but has attached to it the minority opinion and proposed its own resolution instead. the balance of power in parliament is such that the committee's report does not correspond to our group's view of the future economic framework. we would have liked to have had more economic, social and environmental issues, more action to combat unemployment and poverty and more solidarity with the developing countries. we would have liked less neoliberalism, less militarisation of the eu and less harmonisation of laws. on the one hand, it is justified to make the decision on the future economic guidelines correspond to the terms of office of the commission and parliament. on the other hand, cohesion and structural funds and agricultural programmes should not be subject only to budgetary frameworks and budgetary procedures. the reasoning for not only the temporal coordination but also the provisions of the draft eu constitution is no longer valid. the french and dutch people have put this neo-liberal and euro-nationalist project into a coma, and now the body needs to be drained of its plumbing. parliament did not want to reach agreement on the financing of the budgets to be drawn up, that is to say on the revenue side. our group is in favour of membership dues and, above all, the poll tax, and we have no understanding of the euro tax. we want to see that membership fees are collected fairly. that's not happening right now. the others pay almost five billion euros in uk membership fees and the uk's membership fee rebate is unjustified. the final sum of future expenditure is crucial. the six member states' letter to the commission sets out the 1% target, and the member states concerned about the structural and cohesion funds call for the union to ensure cohesion and convergence. our group does not share the committee's view that the final figure for expenditure should be between 1.14% and 1% of the commission's original proposal. we consider the commission's proposal to be the minimum. we have a lot of sympathy in our group for countries that criticise the deflationary weights in the stability and growth pact. many members of our group are also concerned about the budgetary implications of eu enlargement. the fear is that the cost of enlargement will be borne by the old cohesion countries. as far as agriculture is concerned, not everyone understands that the eu budget would make room for other expenditure by co-financing agricultural expenditure. mr böge, i am sorry, but just when i was going to talk about the good aspects of the report, my time ran out.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank our colleague, mr rainer böge, for the work he has done on this report. i have great respect for his work and i do not think that anyone else could have done better and produced such a good and balanced report. parliament must deliver a strong and positive message to the people of europe tomorrow. this report must be supported by the largest possible majority. if parliament agrees on this issue, we will also send a strong message to the council. the agreement on the financial framework will be found during the luxembourg presidency, if there is political will and leadership. i would like to raise two issues which i think are important, the future of agriculture and the baltic sea. agricultural policy has inevitably led to a situation where agricultural support for the old 15 member states will be reduced as future enlargements take place. you have to be prepared for this change. i support the amendment tabled by my group which calls for the member states to make financial compensation for the reduction in the total amount of compulsory expenditure if the council decides to do so despite the 2002 brussels agreement. however, it must be said that the transition to cofinancing in agriculture will be realistic, if not in this financial perspective, then at least in the next. i would also like to draw your attention to the changeover to the baltic sea strategy. the union currently has a mediterranean strategy and we now want to create a baltic strategy alongside it. this strategy is particularly important for nature conservation. the baltic sea is currently experiencing major problems. at the worst possible time, the sea is unsuitable for swimming and fishing, and we need effective measures to restore the baltic sea to its former condition.
the report by mr böge, which is now before us, concerns the future financing of the european union. i would like to thank and congratulate mr böge in particular for his extremely competent and hard work. at the same time, i would like to thank all the members of the committee for their constructive cooperation. the financial frameworks lay the foundations for future eu policies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. in order to ensure balanced development, structural funding is to be increased, as are rural development resources. the needs of the new member states are understood and accepted, but the report rightly points out that the weakest regions of the old member states must not remain the pay ers of the new cohesion policy. in order to improve employment and promote economic growth, the financial framework is intended to invest in particular in research and product development and training. the aim is to triple this amount in seven years. the focus is just right. saving them is saving our own future, and i would like to warn the presidency in particular against this. the additional resources will be used to strengthen the european dimension of research and product development. i would urge the member states to adopt the new financial perspective and the interinstitutional agreement as proposed by parliament as soon as possible.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the new member states have brought new linguistic and national minorities into the union, which are increasingly characterised by linguistic diversity. the report laudably addresses the new requirements for the union's minority policy. already 46 million eu citizens have a mother tongue other than the main language of their country. the problem is that the number of members per country is decreasing as the eu gains new members. the linguistic and national minorities are the first to fall out of the european parliament. the previous enlargement led to the exclusion of four minorities, and this will continue unless action is taken. this is a fundamental issue of democracy; everyone should be represented and recognised by the body whose legislation they are subject to. the rapporteur is quite right to say that an essential prerequisite for an inclusive minority policy is adequate representation in political decision-making. as the enlargements are now planned, virtually all minorities will be expelled from parliament. this is not desirable. the matter can be resolved. for example, the eu was able to set up 30 parliamentary seats specifically for national linguistic minorities. it may, of course, be difficult to determine how these should be defined, but the problem should not be exaggerated. in most cases, these are groups of people who have a recognized status in their country and are not anonymous or invisible. europe's diversity is to be seen. the fact that europe's minorities are denied the opportunity to achieve even a fragile representation is a serious matter, as it relates to the way in which the stability of our continent can be safeguarded. many wars in europe have been the result of majorities oppressing minorities. i hope that parliament and the commission will take up this matter.
in writing. explanation of vote we voted against amendment no 26 because its wording means that the northern dimension of the eu should be re-oriented towards the baltic sea strategy. we are in favour of the creation of a baltic sea strategy for the european union, but it must be part of the policy of the northern dimension. we would have liked the authors of the amendment to have agreed to an oral amendment which would have clearly highlighted the northern dimension and the baltic sea strategy as an integral part of it;
mr president, the stability and growth pact crops up regularly in debates on the economy in this chamber. this is an illustration of the central position this agreement has in eu economic policy-making. in this respect, i wish to congratulate my colleague, mr karas, on his two reports on this subject. the report’s emphasis on a stronger role for the commission in enforcing budgetary discipline is an absolutely necessary development. especially now, in their watered-down format, the commission will have to enforce a clear and strict line with regard to the rules of the pact. furthermore, the absence of the european parliament in the decision governing the stability and growth pact is rightly highlighted as a serious structural flaw in european economic governance. as the only directly democratically elected eu institution, this parliament could play a vital role in putting an end to the political horseplay that goes on in the council and provide the pact with the much needed credibility that many colleagues want. however, let us not fool ourselves: even with the improved institutional feedback mechanisms that this report suggests, it is not the stability pact alone that will lift europe out of its economic slumber. helpful as they are, it is not a set of rules that will help us to put public finances in europe on a strong footing. what we need is economic growth and advances in competitivity, and these derive not from the rules of the pact but from meaningful economic reform, something which many european member states have avoided for far too long. so we have a new pact and i hope, with mr karas’ reports, a better way of making the rules work in a sensible and equal fashion. but until countries achieve meaningful economic reform, we will soon find ourselves in yet another debate on the inflated importance of the pact. i hope the commissioner will do his utmost to prevent any further dilution of the commonly agreed commitments of the member states.
i thank the rapporteur, mr president, for the work he has done in support of the commission's line and for the good compromise. when the commission's line is good in its main features, parliament should support it without further watershed. the legislation now before us is a natural follow-up to the directive which was drawn up last season, in which we set limit values and targets for air pollutants and pahs on the basis of the 1996 framework directive on air quality. we now face a challenging task in setting the appropriate timetable and limit values for the release of other pahs into the environment. pahs are ubiquitous and occur in multi-component mixtures. international toxicological assessments have identified several carcinogenic compounds among the pahs. pahs do not dissolve in water, they accumulate in the food chain and, once in nature, they re-enter the carbon cycle, causing permanent damage to the environment. common test methods should therefore be adopted to ensure that emissions are brought under control quickly. tire development and testing has been going on for a long time, and it should be noted that the first tyres with safer oil are already on the market. the transport sector, where we now want to regulate the limits on the use of tyres and their softeners, is itself ecologically problematic. transport emissions are one of the most common and worst sources of pahs in the air we breathe. in particular, tyre waste releases large quantities of compounds into the environment and water in the form of small particles. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this pah is the most well-known and most dangerous carcinogen. it is now necessary to define sustainable limit values that minimise environmental emissions of benzopyrene, while recognising the need for plasticizers in the tyre industry.
mr president, last week's european council was a great disappointment. it was unable to agree on its own position on the new financial perspectives, although the current ones expire next year. that's why we're in such a hurry to get new ones. the european parliament already decided on its position at the beginning of june. it was decided after a thorough preparation process, which covered all the key eu policies. the conclusions of parliament are therefore clear and thorough. the summit was marked by the dispute between the uk and france over the uk's membership fee and the eu's agricultural policy. rarely, if ever, have the member states' own net contributions become as dominant as they are now. perhaps the only solution to the dispute is the cofinancing of agricultural subsidies, to which parliament refers. its gradual implementation, together with the reduction of the uk's membership refund, could provide a sufficient basis for compromise. the eu needs an interinstitutional agreement on the financial framework. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (ema) is a step in the right direction. most multiannual programmes will be discontinued at the end of 2006. the most important of these concern regional and structural policy, rural development, research and development policy and many other areas. the new draft legislation in these areas is currently being considered by parliament, but it is difficult to take final decisions without knowing how much money is available. the situation seems to be particularly difficult in relation to one of the real priorities of the financial perspective, namely the strengthening of competitiveness. the funds for research and development, training programmes and transeuropean networks to promote growth and employment are to be tripled. now it looks really bad. the commission has already proposed a compromise proposal, which would have halved the funding, and now we have no funding lines at all. regional and structural policy also needs a solution. the decision to finance the current programming period, taken at the agenda 2000 debate in berlin just six months before the start of the programming period, has resulted in the paralysis of structural policy for almost three years. the member states and the commission did not have time to draw up and adopt programmes more quickly. the situation is even more difficult now, because we have 10 new member states, who have difficulty even assessing the scope of the future structural and cohesion policy. the next presidency, the united kingdom, cannot wait for the passage of time with its hands folded, but we are now waiting for its presentations and solutions.
mr president, the european crisis, triggered by two referendums, is a clear indication that the political elite is not able to reach out to the citizens. the gap between the declarations and the reality is so great that the voters have stopped listening. if, for example, solidarity with the new member states is just a word in the party song, then the citizens do not have to believe any more talk. the atmosphere is now such that a referendum can be held on any issue and the answer will always be no. the leaders of the nations have only themselves to blame. we dare not tell the electorate that there is no alternative to globalisation, that it cannot be opposed by political decisions, but that it can be adapted by the right decisions. the same leaders who lament in their speeches that the lisbon strategy is far behind schedule are allowing the fact that decisions already adopted in one country have not been implemented in their own countries. instead, they blame brussels for the problems and setbacks. referendums are certainly not suitable as a means of decision-making at european level. national governments and parliaments must be emboldened to take the necessary decisions. the explanation and justification of european policy is always local if we want people to understand the good intentions. but the bills for our joint decisions will ultimately be paid from national budgets, and only then can the french government credibly explain to its citizens that the position of agriculture on this continent has changed, and only the british can make their own citizens understand that the reduction in eu payments that britain has received has been made in the past and under different circumstances.
mr president, i would like to make three points. the first point is that we should not blame luxembourg; quite the contrary: it did an excellent job with the presidency and showed what small countries can do while running presidencies in general. the speech today from jean-claude juncker was one of the best that we have heard in this house for many years. secondly, we need a positive vision. i am sick and tired of listening to everyone blaming everyone, coming up with scapegoats. the two worst scapegoats that i have heard so far are firstly enlargement and secondly the liberalisation of markets. i do not think the results of the two referendums or the european council should mean that we close the borders of europe and stop competitiveness. quite the contrary: the best thing that has happened to us in the past ten years are the last two rounds of enlargement. we must avoid protectionism and we must avoid nationalism. the third and final point that i wanted to make is that in europe we now have a leadership vacuum. it is clear that france and germany are no longer the engine of europe. someone needs to come and pick up the pieces and drive things forward. in the media it seems that tony blair would be the person. if tony blair is the person, he needs to do two things. firstly, he needs to argue for more, not less europe. secondly, he needs to combine this with economic reform. if he can do this he can grab the leadership vacuum, but unfortunately what we have seen and heard from tony blair when he has tried to get into the heart of europe in the past is something that can be called ‘nato’: ‘no action, talk only’.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, thank you for this opportunity. the commissioner and the rapporteur have done a good job. the new information and communication technologies can contribute to european democracy, knowledge and competitiveness. however, union legislation must ensure that this is in fact the case. new means of communication, such as mobile television, open up new opportunities for small producers. mobile communications are not subject to restrictions such as prime time or too short viewing times, so that in principle anyone can watch whenever they want. i would suggest that the commission should create a programme to support small european producers in these new media, such as travel television. we would thus be creating a much-needed, distinctive and diverse software boom in europe. a multicultural europe is the right basis for this, and we would therefore find our place as europeans in these new media. it is our democratic and cultural duty as legislators to prevent the concentration of the sector, which is our common problem. the same large companies now own television, radio and newspapers as well as mobile communications, and this uniformity presents us with a great challenge, because we need a diversified media to develop into a knowledge-based economy. the commission should therefore examine closely the functioning of the market and the availability of a wide range of culture and information in different countries, in different media and in different content.
mr president, i would first like to commend mr lauk for his thorough report and also to thank president trichet for his presence. europe’s prospects for economic success are bound to structural reforms; many of our colleagues have mentioned this. in an economic climate characterised by unsatisfactory budget deficits and widespread unemployment, several points deserve special emphasis. first, we cannot avoid referring to the stability and growth pact once again. the new framework for the future of the sgp has now been adopted; it has some good as well as some bad new rules. i would like to encourage the ecb to do its utmost to ensure that all reforms to the pact are interpreted correctly and increase transparency and efficacy along with expediting the structural consolidation process. it is important to remember that any weakening of the corrective arm of the sgp would render what was once a powerful mechanism for growth a casualty of flawed political judgement. second, we can harness the energy of european competition by adopting and implementing the services directive as soon as possible. likewise, vast benefits for citizens should compel us to push for full regulation of cross-border retail payments, and to work towards a single european payments area by 2010. this is what citizens expect from us. third, the reforms undertaken by national central banks to adapt their structures to the new institutional framework are paramount to reversing our current downward trend. i am proud to say the bank of finland – my own central bank – is one of the central banks which has made impressive moves towards reaching this objective. it has really tried to reform its structures in order to achieve an improved balance in the eurozone. lastly, i congratulate the ecb on its sound decision to support ratification of the constitution. the choice to integrate under a constitution can only lead to a stronger political union. this is what our voters in france and the netherlands want, even though they rejected the constitution; they still want more political union and the constitution is one way to achieve this on the economic front.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner for the environment, first of all i would like to thank all of you who have contributed to the preparation of this parliament's report. the cooperation has been very seamless. environmental technologies are one of the strongest bridges linking the three pillars of the eu's growth and competitiveness strategy. environmental technologies offer an encouraging opportunity to strengthen european growth, competitiveness and employment while improving environmental protection. the eco-industry is as important an industry in europe as, say, the aerospace or pharmaceutical industries, and is growing at more than 5% a year. the eco-industry already employs over two million people in the european union. there is a growing global market for ecotechnology. japan, canada, the united states and china are all seeking to gain a share of this market. however, despite growth and increased competition, much of the potential of the eco-industry remains unrealised. the commission communication on the environmental technologies action programme seeks to set the direction for the eu and its member states to generate new insights and viable ideas, and also to show how to create a fair and competitive market outlook for eco-efficient innovations. as rapporteur, i have taken as a guiding principle that only sufficient demand will generate new innovation and create a sustainable market. environmental legislation must be sufficiently ambitious, clear and long-term to enable the development of new environmental technologies. the starting point must be that environmental costs are fully included in the price of the product. the key factor here is the elimination of harmful subsidies. the right and competitive price for a product, good or service is found when the price tag is also put on the environmental hazard. this price tag can be set by, among other things, environmental taxes and other charges. necessity is also often the driving force behind many things. the price of oil and other scarce natural resources is already so high that new and more sustainable forms of energy must be found. europe must invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. the commission rightly stressed in the action programme the need to find ways of speeding up the practical application of research results. in this area, investment is needed not only in research but also in risk finance. the total budget of the european union is about 1% of the gross domestic product of the member states. this puts limits on direct eu funding. however, the eu must clearly increase its contribution to ecotechnology. this should be a clear priority in the framework programme for research and in the future eu competitiveness and innovation framework programme. the development and deployment of environmental technologies must be supported by the rural development, cohesion and regional development funds. the european investment bank must also be involved in the financing. many member states have good systems. these must be made available to all and made known. citizens must also be informed about the environmental sustainability of products and services throughout their life cycle, through the use of clear labelling and reliable certificates. the lisbon strategy's goal of sustainable growth, improved competitiveness and quality jobs, combined with a high level of environmental protection, is achievable. however, this requires an unprejudiced investment in research, product development and promotion of market access for environmental technologies. as part of the implementation of the lisbon strategy, the european union should set itself the objective of having a 50% share of the growing global environmental technology market.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that a literal dirty war is being waged against the health of citizens and the environment, with the commission postponing the presentation of its air quality strategy. this delay is contrary to what we have agreed in the context of the sixth environment action programme. this is unacceptable. air pollution is sickening and deadly. according to the latest figures, tiny particles alone kill up to 300,000 people a year. the commission's decision is very unfortunate. it is already liable to undermine citizens' confidence in the eu. the opinion polls show that citizens want the european union to take action, in particular, to improve the environment. according to press reports, the delay was driven in particular by commissioners verheugen and mccreevy. if they and commission president barroso consider that environmental protection is detrimental to competitiveness, i ask them to present the evidence publicly. all the public reports and experience that i know of tell me the exact opposite. environmental protection is a factor in competitiveness. the cost of the environmental reforms implemented so far shows that they have all been cheaper than estimated. the cost has been four to ten times less than estimated in advance. president barroso is not here, but i would like to point out to him that inaction also pays. in healthcare alone, it costs €200 to €600 billion a year. it also costs upwards of 300,000 premature deaths. these are not imaginary figures, they are real costs. we want to know when the thematic strategies are presented. promoting environmental protection would be the kind of leadership that europe is in dire need of at the moment.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr chichester for his excellent work. we have become so dependent on electricity today that we light up the day with a light bulb, including this day. the power outages of recent years have made it clear how vulnerable we are. as always, the greatest harm will be done to the least, the poorest and the most deprived. it is therefore appropriate for the member states and the union to emphasise operational security, even though we do not yet have a functioning internal electricity market. that's what this show is all about. there is no doubt that investments must be made, including in transmission capacity, to alleviate congestion. this will allow the internal market to develop to the benefit of the consumer. the overload must therefore be removed, which improves the efficiency of electricity transmission and makes the grid more stable. it will facilitate the conditions for entry. we must ensure that the same applies to crossborder networks. they have a significant bottleneck. the objectives of operational security and non-discrimination in the market, which are important for citizens and businesses, are compatible. member states must ensure that competition is opened and that the legislation already in force is implemented. the slow implementation of the laws is slowing down the whole of europe. it's the train we don't want to be able to keep up. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the barcelona european council asked the european council next spring to assess the implementation of the internal energy market, that is to say the transposition of this proposal into national legislation. of course, investment in infrastructure and networking is also needed. in addition, we must intensify our cooperation with the business and scientific worlds, in line with the lisbon strategy. from an ecological point of view, energy efficiency and modern environmental technologies must of course be given special attention. the chichester report supports these fundamental principles of the union. my group, ladies and gentlemen, supports the whole of the initiative put forward by mr chichester. we have only one task left, to translate this common determination into a conviction.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the rapporteur, mr chichester, is right in assuming that we are all in agreement that energy consumption is increasing and that electricity is increasing its share of energy consumption. the main concerns are therefore the continuity of electricity production and the security of supply. the rapporteur believes that the commission has been too concerned with market mechanisms rather than proposing concrete measures. our group also believes that the market alone will not solve all the problems of production and security of supply. we in the nordic countries have had a bad experience with the effects of market mechanisms on the price of electricity paid by consumers. in the nordic countries, electricity flows freely between finland, sweden, norway and denmark. its price on the nordic network is determined by the common electricity exchange. the characteristic of the price is that the price of all electricity is determined by the highest price of the most expensive marginal electricity produced, i.e. the highest possible price. this market mechanism is highly disadvantageous to consumers. it is true that nuclear and hydroelectric power stations also receive the same price for electricity on cold winter days as the last coal-fired power stations to be connected to the grid. as the price of coal-fired electricity is further increased by the emission allowances, zero-emission nuclear and hydroelectric power plants also receive compensation for the emission allowances. for consumers, such a price mechanism is completely unsatisfactory. the nordic electricity market is a good example of the fact that the market does not solve all problems and may raise the price of electricity in a way that cannot be considered acceptable. public measures are needed to safeguard various investments.
for the ppe-de group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing in tomorrow's vote is to ensure that the council's common position on extending the patentability of software beyond the present does not pass through parliament unchanged. there's been an unusually high number of problems with this show. the commission and the council have ignored the amendments to the proposal for a directive made by the majority of parliament at first reading. the most striking example is found on the commission's scadplus website. the council's common position adopted in may 2004 did not take account of any of the substantive amendments tabled by the european parliament. so parliament was bypassed by a coup d'état. such a procedure is not possible in this case or in any other case under the codecision procedure. i hope that the majority of this house will support the moderate amendments to the council's common position which tighten the conditions for software patentability from the current ones. the most important thing is to prevent the granting of pure software and business model patents in europe. in some respects, the current practice of the european patent office has gone too far into the grey area and patents have been granted on dubious grounds. the patentability of software in europe should not be extended beyond what is currently possible. on the other hand, the majority of modern technological products use software and patents granted for technological products should not be rejected simply because software is part of them. it is also important to ensure that patents cannot prevent the creation of compatible software. it is good that we are on the same page with the commission on this. the directive should support european innovative research and development activities in the software sector. this means that unnecessary barriers are not placed on, for example, open source software development, while taking into account the fact that patents are of key importance to many european companies. academic research, both in this country and in the world, has shown that r & d investment is not dependent on patents or geography. it is desirable for companies to develop software where the best innovation environment is available, regardless of the extent of patent protection in the geographical area. there is no compulsion to make these patentable software in europe, they can be made quite well in india, china or elsewhere in the world and then patented elsewhere. the aim of the directive is to harmonise the written practice of the european patent office and the member states in the grant of software patents. that is why i am in favour of a directive. the general problems of the patent system - slowness, cost and so on - are not part of this discussion, but it is clear that the need for community patents has become even more clear. the community patent must be prepared quickly. i think it is likely that the amendments which parliament will adopt tomorrow will lead us to a compromise. i would remind you that if parliament is not satisfied with the result of the conciliation, it can always reject the whole proposal, even after the conciliation. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
mr president, three years ago, if someone had asked anyone in this chamber whether they knew what a computer-implemented invention was, most people would have said ‘not really’. you all saw the demonstrators outside today. some of them were a little aggressive. one of them jumped right in front of our car and a computer-implemented invention called abs brakes probably saved his life. this has been an ongoing story. there have been many very interesting turns in the plot. first of all, there is a dramatic first reading in the european parliament. secondly, our position is totally rejected in the council. thirdly, the commission refuses to go back to the first reading. fourthly, we have a dubious common position from the council and now, fifthly, we stand at the end of the second reading. i am afraid this piece of legislation is going to be rejected tomorrow, as mr wuermeling said. i do not know whether that is good or bad, but i know two things and i have two messages. one message is to the ‘david’ group, in other words the open source and smes. this would not have been such a bad thing after all, had we worked it through. it would not have prevented the open source from going on. as a finn, i can say it would not have prevented linux being invented and developed. to goliath, or the bigger companies, i say ‘get your act together’. your lobbying was miserably bad. the open source folk beat you hands down, by 100 to zero. the question then is what does this mean institutionally? institutionally, i have a message for the commission and council. the european parliament is a co-legislator. you should take it seriously. when you see this proposal being rejected tomorrow morning, you should go back to the drawing board and come up with a new piece of legislation. europe needs some form of patentability on computer-implemented inventions, but tomorrow we are not going to get it.
mr president, the lively debate on this directive shows that democracy works. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. things are falling apart, and that's what happened here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i dare say that because i come from the same country as the linux system. the failure of this directive could, on the other hand, be a further setback for european competitiveness. there is less and less of the lisbon declaration left if we overturn the directive. the opposition between smes and the big bad multinationals is exaggerated and artificial. i have been contacted by many smes in my home country of finland who tell me that they are benefiting from this directive. it would protect their innovations and at the same time protect them against the big companies. big companies always do well, even without rules, but clear rules are always for the benefit of small ones. i'm not one of those people who opposes patents on principle. patents are part of the european tradition. it is the cornerstone of a modern, well-functioning market economy. it gives you security and also protects you from pirates. why should we not patent computer-implemented inventions that benefit us all in our daily lives? at present there is no uniform patent law in europe. it creates an uncertain environment for businesses and investments. we need good and open patent legislation for the sake of jobs. i hope that this will not be another example of europe shooting itself in the foot and undermining its competitiveness.
mr president, as the liberal group's shadow rapporteur, i thank mr hatzidakis for his good cooperation in the report on the general regulation. we reached a satisfactory compromise in committee. it has taken account in a fair way of the interests and views of both the new and the old member states. i hope that it will be accepted as such by both parties in the vote tomorrow. the reform of eu policies must be based on sustainable principles. regional policy must aim to reduce regional disparities in employment and income and to curb harmful migration both within and between member states. the hatzidakis report follows these principles. in the process of reform, pressure has been put to break these principles. the european parliament has also called for the priority of aid to be shifted to the cities, which are home to 80% of the union's population. this is not justified. in a market economy, wealth and population tend to be concentrated too much, especially in the largest cities. regional policy should not be used to reinforce this development. the problems of large cities are specific, but they should not be financed from the regional policy funds or from the general union budget. many small and medium-sized towns, on the other hand, are eligible for regional policy support, particularly as part of wider regional development programmes. regional policy aspects must also be taken into account in the reform of the common agricultural policy. the current system is inverted, with the highest aid being paid in the regions with the most favourable production conditions. it is very important for the implementation of regional policy that the council reaches agreement on the financial perspective and regional legislation in the coming months.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are able to advise non-eu countries on matters where we ourselves have a lot of work to do. this report on women's rights in turkey draws attention to the fact that only 4.4% of the turkish parliament's members are women. we must raise the issue and the aim must be change for the better. but we cannot propose a mandatory quota system, which would increase women's participation in turkish politics, if we do not also urge our own member states to change their legislation in the same way. we should not ask more of turkey than we are prepared to give. that is why the liberal group has tabled amendment no 3. i would like to address my turkish colleagues: encourage women to become more involved in politics, be more courageous than the heads of many of the present member states of the union! in france, for example, the proportion of women in national parliaments is around 12%, and in italy it is even lower. i have not heard the heads of state of either country or the european union express concern about the situation in these countries and the low participation of women. there's plenty to do in there. we must not cover up our own problems and point the finger only at turkey. the low number of women in political life must be addressed in turkey as well as in the union and in the very choices of the union itself. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. i would also like to thank commissioner rehn, who has been very good at bringing women's rights to the fore in these accession negotiations.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of pay equality has been one of the biggest problems for equality for decades. community legislation has not been able to eliminate this disparity. incentives and recommendations alone will not create pay equity in the future. it must be made clear that unjustified pay differentials are not acceptable. we need tougher standards, we need legislative sanctions, we need results. member states shall report on how they implement the principle of equal treatment in practice. there is insufficient information on how this is implemented in legislation. appropriate procedures need to be established in the member states. we have just been talking about turkey having to implement the legislation; it is not enough to just pass the right laws. in this respect, the eu and the current eu member states could look in the mirror and implement the laws and regulations that have been adopted jointly. instead of encouraging social partners, member states must ensure that they implement and promote the principle of equal treatment, i.e. implement what is provided for in eu treaties and legislation. if the employer breaks the rule, he must also be held liable. we as parliamentarians want to improve the existing legislation so that it promotes equal treatment for women and men. i hope we can reach an agreement on the objectives with the commission and the council.
mr president, mr bowis made reference to his 100-year-old mother. i would like to make reference to my british mother-in-law and father-in-law, who are substantially younger. i am very proud of the fact that they were in edinburgh on the march. i should add that this was on saturday, not two days ago. they were not among the hooligans! i would like to make three points. firstly, on making poverty history. i think it is a great subject for the british presidency. it revolves around three things: debt, which should be forgiven; aid, of which there should be more; and finally trade, which should be much freer and fairer. it seems that we have made the least progress on trade. we need to work on infrastructure and on access. what should we do in the short term? three things. first, we should stop dumping agricultural products on the african markets at cheap prices. second, we need to change the conditions on the basis of which we give aid. it is wrong that the world bank and the imf make non-agricultural subsidies a precondition when we do exactly the opposite. third, for a short time, they should be able to protect their markets much like we have done. my third and final point is a proposal to the british presidency, namely that we should establish an all-encompassing africa strategy. just as we have a mediterranean strategy, and just as we had a russia strategy, we need an africa strategy. that africa strategy should lend our african policies coherence and consistency in the common foreign and security policy and in trade and development. a final suggestion in order to help the british presidency, especially the foreign minister, jack straw, get out of the tangle in the budgetary negotiations, is to think about including the european development fund in the real budget of the european union.
mr president, three brief remarks on the software patent directive: firstly, it is better to have no directive than to have a bad directive. secondly, it was a clear demonstration of the power struggle between the institutions, in which the commission and the council should have listened and followed parliament's activities. thirdly, the whole debate was full of misunderstandings and i hope that the commission will not at this stage put its hands in the air and put a new proposal on the table, because at some point we will also need a european software patent directive.
in writing. as the spokesperson for this issue in the parliament's largest group and head of the finnish epp-ed delegation, i think that the decision to reject the common position was the right one. according to my estimation, the resulting directive would not have been good enough. rejecting the whole proposal was a smaller setback than it would have been to adopt bad legislation. however, i regret that the attempt to harmonise varying patent practises in different member states was rejected. therefore i'll urge commission to rapidly reintroduce the community patent proposal that was not adopted by the past legislature. commission should also take the initiative to renovate the european patent system. i also consider that today's decision is a major victory for the parliament as an institution. the council common position did not take into account at all the view of the majority of the parliament. the parliament showed that the member states in the council cannot walk all over the parliament's view - whatever the matter in question.
rapporteur.– mr president, it is a pity that mr mccreevy cannot be here. it would have been nice to talk to him personally. when i took over this report from mrs villiers, who deserves considerable thanks for her thorough approach and hard work, it was quite clear to me what the outcome should be. it is even clearer now. as we know, the commission recently produced a green paper on financial services. it explicitly stated that any new european proposal for financial services legislation and implementing rules should pass a number of economic tests. they involve a careful study of the expected economic benefits as well as ‘the extent to which measures facilitate cross-border business and enhance the competitiveness of europe’s financial markets, while, at the same time, protecting internal stability’. the commission paper also states that there is clear market evidence suggesting that genuine financial integration is under way in many key sectors, such as in clearing and settlement. that sentiment is strongly echoed in our daily dealings with the financial services industry. the report before you sends a clear signal to the markets that the achievements will not be hampered by unnecessary regulation. that message is a result of a broad cross-party compromise and it has the strong backing of market participants. some of the amendments that have been tabled depart from this functional approach and seek to prejudge the need for regulation. i appreciate and respect the cultural differences in regulatory philosophy, which lead some to these conclusions. however, it would be a serious mistake to apply this ex ante philosophy in the case of clearing and settlement. we have agreed to wait for the results of the regulatory impact assessment and of the different working groups set up by the commission, to which you referred, commissioner, in order to determine whether there is any market failure and whether a directive is the right solution after all. more importantly, our clear signal in support of the developments that are taking place in the clearing and settlement markets should not be diluted with confused concerns regarding potential developments sometime in the future, for which no evidence currently exists. i refer here to some members’ wish to implement ex ante competition rules for clearing and settlement service providers. there is no need for that at this stage, as evidence suggests that markets are, in fact, generally developing towards more open and transparent competition. the call for new competition legislation is a misguided call for a short-term directive, with the risk that it will develop into wide-ranging legislation on clearing and settlement before we have the results of the different commission impact studies. instead, the plenary tomorrow should fully endorse the committee line, that we should focus our efforts on the removal of the ‘giovannini barriers’. here i fully support the initiatives of the commission. the removal of such barriers promotes openness, equal access and transparency in the industry. we should not seek to implement some arbitrarily defined single utility or service model across the eu, as that would hamper ongoing market-led cross-border integration and consolidation, along with the tangible benefits accruing to customers of clearing and settlement services. as the commissioner has stated, this is not a technical, minor issue. it is a very important field of the single market. i fully appreciate commission efforts in this respect. i would like to thank all your staff who have worked hard with parliament in reaching this compromise. i hope we can continue this very fruitful cooperation in the future.
rapporteur.– mr president, there is a split vote on amendment 2 to paragraph 26. the first part is up to the word ‘market’ and then the rest of the amendment would be deleted, so it would be similar to the original form in committee. i propose that the first part be adopted. the second part would not be adopted; it would be rejected.
rapporteur.– mr president, there is a linguistic problem in this amendment. i should like the word ‘and’ changed to ‘or’, so that this is the least of all possible reasons why a clearing and settlement service can refuse access. so ‘and’ should be changed to ‘or’ in the english version – the original version – and then in all the other language versions.
mr president, i could not support the conclusions of the resolution on landmines, although as a person involved in development cooperation i share this concern and consider the use of landmines in developing countries to be a great tragedy. i represent an eu country that has committed to fulfilling its obligations under the ottawa treaty by 2016. and that will be the end of the world's safest and least harmful mines, which protect our 1,200-mile border with russia. the mines are not out of control in the field, but in storage and guarded. when they were placed in the field during the war, detailed maps were made for later dismantling. no civilian may step on a finnish sack gun or accidentally step on the trigger wire of a chewing gum mine. the pictures of children cutting off their limbs are not appropriate for the conditions in finland. the countries where this is happening will not be caught in the ottawa treaty. we already know that our defenses are being weakened substantially. we need to find a replacement system that has the same function but a different name. so our problem is semantic. it is a question of what logic is followed by a morality which demands the destruction of existing antipersonnel mines but accepts the acquisition of alternative methods. the purpose of fighting and destroying an enemy does not change by replacing the weapon system with a more modern, more expensive and more efficient one. the new systems are by no means less lethal than the present mines. they too are designed to stop the enemy's advance. the solution to the problem should focus more on the use of mines as a means of terror than on the device itself.
mr president, we have spoken about zimbabwe many times in this chamber and everything has been said about it. i do not want to repeat what our resolution says; i just want to say that democracy is a demanding process that requires effort. it's not self-evident, even where it's sworn in. perhaps we need a whole new profession, a corps of "democracy engineers", to study the weaknesses in the structures of society and to conduct an impartial quality control of democracy. the retreat of president mugabe, a former freedom fighter and national hero, into a power-hungry dictator and criminal must be analyzed. when we were election observers in zimbabwe a few years ago, we could only marvel at mugabe, who went public during the election declaring that whatever the outcome, the government would remain. how does such insolence come about? the once fertile model of africa is now in chaos. what remains is a ruined and still impoverished industry. what is this slow slide from democracy to dictatorship? one key word is the legal order required by the social contract. by encouraging people to take over illegally, rather than carrying out the government's own land reform, mugabe eradicated the rule of law from the country and thus destroyed the functioning core of society. and the sequence has followed: now mugabe is using hunger and misery as a weapon against his own people and feeding nationalism and blaming colonialism to cover up his own crimes. moreover, by undermining the capacity of the opposition to act, he is destroying the very foundations of a democratic society. the functioning of democracy requires that those in power realize their own danger. the potential for corruption is innate. the philosopher-theologian nibur found the reason for the duality of the human being: our capacity for good makes democracy possible, and our propensity for evil makes it necessary. only true democracy ensures that the people who have been corrupted by power are replaced by new faces. president mugabe, for the sake of your people, it's time for you to go!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive in question shares the objectives of the council of europe's general assembly on television. in fact, this directive covers almost all the matters decided by the council of europe's general assembly on television. both are intended to maintain and promote the presence of high-quality european works in television broadcasting. the aim is good, but this is one example of the overlapping work of the council of europe and the european union. in the context of this directive, it is appropriate to seek open forms of cooperation between these two actors and to establish a clear division of labour between the council of europe and the european union. it is not reasonable to treat the same matters in exactly the same way in both bodies. however, it would be useful to agree on common concepts first, in order to eliminate the differences in interpretation between what constitutes a european work and what constitutes an independent producer. but the most important thing is to pool resources. this is how we achieve the best result.
mr president, i should like to give brief explanations of my vote. i appreciate the work my party colleague has done on the textile issue. i am also pleased that the european union and china have reached a negotiated solution, but i cannot support the eu's position, let alone the european parliament's position on this issue. the reason is clear: the principle must be free trade and not quotas. i think the eu's approach on this issue has been far too protectionist, and consumers are the ones who suffer most from this, with higher prices. so i support the commission and those countries which are prepared to open up textile markets, not close them down.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, for several years i have represented my group and the european parliament in the july budgetary conciliation, which takes place after the council's first reading with the member states. it's always been hard to make a deal in the summer, but this year it was especially hard. in practice, nothing was agreed and as a result parliament is free to conduct its own first reading without commitments to the council. the basic problems, from the point of view of my group, are the low level of payment appropriations in the budget and the budgetary priorities. there are a number of so-called net contributors in the council who are not interested in the added value that union funding can bring through the various joint projects. the only thing the council seems to be actively interested in financing is the militarization of the eu. although war is not a matter for the eu, member states want to finance their joint militarisation projects with eu funds. i understand that the congolese police operation and the sudan mission are financed from the development budget and that the financing of the militarization operations is not therefore transparent. although the constitution, rejected in two referendums, is not forthcoming, the political elites of the member states are implementing the articles written in it and are setting up, for example, an armaments agency. the way in which member states operate is undemocratic and it is clear that many eu joint military actions do not have the legal basis provided for by the treaties. instead of militarizing the eu, we should talk about building a social europe, which is the only way to give the union's action legitimacy, that is, general acceptance by the citizens. our group for a social europe has consistently criticised the narrow-mindedness of the lisbon strategy, which only promotes a europe of big business. finally, we criticised the council's blindly and with its ears closed, cutting expenditure even in relation to the commission's draft budget, which is aimed at reducing budgetary appropriations to 1% of the gross national income of the eu member states. the council is not in a position to do so. it also shows a strategic objective. in the event of no agreement on the financial envelope and of the budgetary procedure under article 272, the final amount for the 2006 budget shall be as low as possible from the council's point of view. this is a strategic objective which we cannot accept. our group is also concerned about the strategy of covering the costs of sudden and unexpected expenditure, such as the tsunami, by allocating money to new purposes by taking money away from the purposes approved by parliament. if new external needs arise, be prepared to direct new and fresh money to them. finally, i would point out that it is necessary to secure payments from the structural funds and to increase the human resources needed for enlargement. it is very difficult for our parliament to understand the contradiction between the commission's and the council's views on the need for staff and the need for staff to be added as a result of enlargement.
mr. president, first of all, i want to thank you for your kindness. the council's 2006 draft budget is based on payment appropriations of 1.01% of eu gni, or about eur 1 billion over the 1% threshold. this was also achieved by a more than eur 1 billion budgetary cut. the council's proposal also shows that the 1% spending ceiling proposed by some countries is not feasible, as the new member states are only just beginning to enter the eu budget. the 2006 budget is the last budget to be drawn up under the current financial perspective. without a new financial perspective, there will be no agreement between the institutions, which would lead to complete economic uncertainty and the paralysis of the eu's activities.
for the alde group mr president, the present supplementary budget no 4 and the use of the flexibility instrument are aimed at dealing with the tsunami disaster in south-east asia. the european union wants to support the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the disaster-stricken areas with eur 350 million, of which eur 170 million will be granted this year. of this, some eur 85 million is so-called fresh money. the aid is substantial, second only to the aid promised by australia and the united states. it shows that the eu is committed to taking its responsibilities in the management of major disasters. the eu already managed to allocate eur 123 million to this year's budget in december, including eur 23 million for food aid and eur 100 million for emergency aid. so now it is about supporting reconstruction. rebuilding is a huge project. it means cleaning up whole areas, renovating and building houses and reviving businesses. to this end, the recovery of the fishing industry, among other things, is key. it is positive that the european parliament and the council reached agreement on financing last july. the council and parliament have not been very good at working together on budgetary matters recently, and this came to a head with the complete deadlock in the financial framework negotiations last june. the fact that agreement was reached on this important matter shows that the eu can achieve positive results only if it is aware of its shared responsibility.
mr president, i am not a paediatrician or an expert in the pharmaceutical industry, but i have the expertise to have two small children: oliver, three and a half years old, and emilie, one and a half years old. i would like to mention to mr grabowska on this side that fathers also go to buy medicines for their children: i was last at the pharmacy in genvall last saturday. i support the proposed regulation and i also support the excellent report by mr grossetête, and i would like to make three brief points. the first point that we all know is that research into paediatric drugs is not good business. it's not profitable, and that's why it's not done enough. i think this proposal for a regulation provides a carrot for more research, which is to be welcomed. the second point i would make is that the six-month extension proposed by the commission and by mrs grossetête is a good thing, because we are currently using too many medicines intended for adults when they are administered directly to children. it's not a good thing. and the last point i want to make is that i think the question is, at the end of the day, are we doing clinical trials or are we learning from mistakes when kids have been given the wrong drugs? i'd go with the first option. the commission and the report by mrs grossetête deserve our full support.
mr president, a child is not a small adult. a child's pill is not half an adult's, and a child's coat is not a reduced coat for an adult. in many areas of society, children are getting the attention they deserve, but i am very surprised that children still do not have access to enough medicines that are specifically designed and tested for them. many diseases and illnesses have their own pediatric form, which must also be treated pediatrically. but in finland, for example, less than 30 percent of all registered medicines contain dosage instructions for children of all ages. i am happy to pay the price of respecting the six-month deadline so that my grandchildren will have better medicines and treatment for their illness.
mr president, i would like to make three points. first of all, i think this is a very important area. i come from finland, so i do not want to make this into a commercial for a mobile phone company, but it is the best way of connecting people. karl deutsch talked about it in the 1930s. it is a way of crossing borders: if you go to the algarve, you fall in love with portugal; if you go to the marche, you fall in love with italy; if you go to the costa del sol, you might fall in love with spain, and if you go to provence, you fall in love with france. it is as simple as that. on top of that, we get growth, gdp; 4% of gdp stems from our tourist industry, with six million people employed and two million smes in the sector, so it is a very important and, in many ways, a key area. secondly, it is also an area of growth. there is real growth potential in the services sector. in that sense, it is an important part of the lisbon process. we have an ageing population, a population with more money and more time, a population with more time to travel. all of that is good. thirdly, i support the report that has been produced by my colleague. it is an excellent report. one thing i find unfortunate, but the rapporteur could not do anything about it, is that we did not get tourism into the treaty, because the constitution has not yet entered into force, but i think the system of classification in the report is good. finally, i hope that mr berlusconi and mr chirac read this report and become inspired to travel around europe and taste different kinds of food.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the committee's work, the report is very confusing. it's what you might call a splash cage, lacking a big line and focus. but we must have clear priorities. the commissioner's speech was very welcome. her statement that gender dimension is taken into account and the priorities mentioned were very welcome. the main point to be made is that 14 member states of the union have not implemented a screening programme to detect cancers. it would save money and lives, and it would be very important that these screening tests were actually done on time. the commissioner's priority for mental health was also very positive. in many member states, mental health patients are treated as secondary patients and are not considered as diseases in the same way as other diseases. thirdly, i would also like to express my satisfaction that the increase in alcohol consumption was taken into account in the speech by the commissioner. alcohol consumption has increased in almost all member states, and deaths and alcohol-related diseases have increased. especially among young people, this generalization has been fatal. the union and national governments therefore have a lot to do in this area and priorities must be set.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the opportunity we have here to discuss the policy on the northern dimension, and this before the ministerial meeting on 21 november which will be devoted to this issue. the northern dimension is an integrated policy of the european union. it is intended to encourage dialogue and practical cooperation in the northern parts of europe covering the baltic region, as well as the arctic and sub-arctic areas of our continent. it aims to ensure the general welfare of this vast region with its abundant natural resources through effective and sustainable regional cooperation. it also helps to overcome the divisions in this region, which has many common features and faces common challenges on both sides of the borders of the states concerned. the northern dimension policy has made considerable progress since its launch in 1999, when the official kick-off was given by the european council in helsinki. the feira european council of june 2000 then adopted the first action plan for the northern dimension in the european union's external and crossborder policies, covering the period 2000-2003. the second northern dimension action plan was endorsed by the brussels european council in october 2003 and entered into force on 1 january 2004, covering the period 2004-2006. this second plan took account of the enlargement of the european union planned for 1 may 2004. since then, eight of the nine baltic sea states have been members of the european union, the ninth being the russian federation. the policy on the northern dimension has already placed an increasing emphasis on relations and cooperation with north-west russia, which will be strengthened in the years after 2006. the second action plan covers five areas considered essential for the northern countries: business and infrastructure economics, human resources development - education, culture, research and health -, the environment and nuclear safety, crossborder cooperation and, finally, justice and home affairs. in addition, kaliningrad and the arctic are identified as cross-cutting themes to be integrated into the five priorities. the action plan emphasises the notions of subsidiarity and synergy between the various actors in the northern dimension. these two concepts ensure the full participation of all stakeholders in the implementation of the action plan, including partner states, regional organisations, regional and local authorities, educational and research institutions and, finally, civil society, including the union itself. in particular, i would like to stress the important role played by the cemb (council of the baltic sea states) and the ceab (barents sea euro-arctic council), as well as their activities and projects. the commission is a member of both organisations and remains fully committed to them. from the outset, initiatives adopted under the northern dimension have been implemented through existing community programmes or the respective budgets of the parties concerned by this dimension, whether states or regional organisations. at present, the european union's financial instruments for northern dimension policy are the tacis programmes, the national and regional programmes, including the so-called neighbourhood programmes, interreg, and to a lesser extent other community policies with indirect effects in the field of the northern dimension. this dimension also benefits from the increased lending opportunities that the european investment bank is granting to russia. the commission has proposed that from 2007 the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, one of the four new instruments for financing external action, should be the main source of community funding for russia and thus for the northern dimension policy. the institutional framework established by the second action plan has worked as planned: ministerial meetings are held every two years, with meetings of senior officials in between. the first senior officials meeting was held in brussels on 21 october 2004 and brought together all the states concerned by the northern dimension and all the other member states of the european union, the four organisations of the northern region - namely the council of the baltic sea states, the barents sea euro-arctic council, the nordic council of ministers and the arctic council - the international financial institutions operating in northern europe as well as representatives of the institutions of the european union. canada and the united states also participated as observers. the 2005 ministerial meeting, to be held on 21 november in brussels at the initiative of the uk presidency, will be important as it will aim to approve the guidelines which will guide the preparation of a political declaration and a framework document for the implementation of the policy in question in the years after 2006, i.e. at the expiry of the second action plan. the commission believes that the main objective must be to make the policy on the northern dimension a common policy for all the parties concerned, in particular the russian federation. for this new policy on the northern dimension to be successful, all the parties, and in particular russia, must feel that they are part of it. this also implies a full commitment to the objectives and structures of this dimension. once all parties have demonstrated this commitment, we could look at new partnerships in the northern region which would be inspired by the successful model of the northern dimension environmental partnership, for which the european union is the main funder and which illustrates the very fruitful cooperation established between the four relevant international financial institutions, russia and the commission. the commission considers that the new northern dimension should be seen as the regional expression of the northern common areas agreed at the eu-russian federation summit on 10 may, to which the full participation of norway and iceland would add value. it should also continue to include certain additional objectives relating to the specific characteristics of the north, in particular its fragile environment, the issue of indigenous peoples, health and social welfare. the commission is currently drawing up the basic texts for the new northern dimension. this should be a joint political declaration and a strategic framework setting out the objectives and identifying the measures needed to achieve them. these texts should be adopted in the second half of 2006, following a broad consultation process with all the actors concerned by this dimension, including the four organisations in the nordic region, the international financial institutions operating in the nordic region, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. they are expected to enter into force in 2007, when the second action plan expires. the political declaration and the strategic framework for the new dimension should be permanent in nature, replacing the current model of three-year action plans, while ensuring regular review. in order to facilitate these periodic reviews, it is also planned that in future all the actors concerned by the northern dimension will present an evaluation at the ministerial meetings held in the framework of this dimension. consultations on the new strategy have begun and i welcome the opportunity to exchange views with parliament. the commission will welcome any new ideas or suggestions from parliament on the development of this strategy and will also keep parliament fully informed of this development. the commission will continue to draw up annual reports. the information system on the northern dimension is also available on dg relex's website. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by expressing the hope that the discussions we are currently having with russia will lead to russia's full commitment to the new phase of the northern dimension strategy in 2007. i would also like to stress that the commission is determined to continue to work towards the success of this strategy, both through the implementation of the second action plan and through the evolution of the strategy.
for the ppe-de group mr president, it is excellent that the northern dimension is being brought back into the debate. i am very encouraged by the willingness of the honourable commissioner michelin to commit itself to the development of the northern dimension. but a look at the list of speakers reveals one fundamental problem with this concept: the northern dimension has far too few stakeholders at the moment. too few in this parliament and in the eu member states feel it is theirs. the programme has not yet produced the desired results and is still not well known. this key innovation of the finnish presidency in 1999 is a truly valuable project to be lost because of the weakness of political muscle. the northern dimension must be made more vibrant, and i am grateful that the commissioner has the same ambition. the northern dimension has been given little attention, much less money. in the absence of a budget line, it has remained theoretical. the amounts are of course only a fraction of the eu's mediterranean funding, but i am pleased to hear about the new financial instruments. the northern dimension has been burdened by a certain lack of visibility and has not yet been able to create a clear profile for itself that distinguishes it from other activities. it is a realistic view that only a strategy with a clear financial framework and budgetary framework will succeed in consolidating its position. this is one reason why some of us in the north have recently turned our attention to the baltic sea and its coastal states. the baltic sea is undoubtedly part of the northern dimension. with the eu's eastward enlargement, the baltic sea has become a major inland sea of the eu and should be given its rightful place. it is our sea, our mare nostrum. it is surrounded by new eu member states with a strong motivation to strengthen cooperation in the baltic sea region in a way that strengthens all the important aspects of the northern dimension and harnesses the new political muscle for regional cooperation. the northern dimension has been an instrument of external relations, but parts of its domain have not had sufficient unifying elements. to complement this, a new regional approach is needed. in this context, the protection of the baltic sea and the development of the baltic sea economic area are important. at the beginning of our membership of the eu, it was enough to have a say in the verbal reality and to have some people repeat words and concepts that we had invented. it is no longer enough, as the union expands, and at the same time the need is great, i want the northern dimension and the baltic sea strategy to become a research project for the benefit of the people of the region and for the protection of the environment. (applause) i would like to thank the
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, thank you for this communication. the enlarged european union needs visibility in its different geographical areas. it is widely recognised in the european union that the mediterranean region needs to be given a prominent role in defending the safety and well-being of its citizens and the stable and sustainable development of our continent. the northern dimension is a more recent entry in the eu's sphere of action. it has been a decided part of the union's policy since the german presidency in 1999. however, as has been said here, the commitment of the commission and the member states to this policy has been very weak and it was very interesting and good to hear the commissioner's assurance that there will be a change. the recent enlargement of the eu also highlights the need for a new eastern dimension. the northern dimension is an umbrella which aims to draw attention not only to the northern regions of the union but also to the northern neighbourhoods, such as practical cooperation with the north-west of russia and the arctic regions. the practical work on the northern dimension is based on partnerships involving the european union, russia, norway and iceland. canada is also involved in many of the projects. the practical work of the northern dimension is based on partnerships, and the best example of this is the implementation of environmental partnerships, and the way in which environmental partnerships have been implemented can be an example for all other eu regional projects. in short, with the help of the partner countries and the eu's contribution of eur 75 million, environmental projects worth eur 2 billion have either been launched or are planned. the south-west st. petersburg wastewater treatment plant, which will play a significant role in reducing the waste load in the baltic sea, will be completed this autumn. in future we must develop the policy of the northern dimension, involve new actors and strengthen the work of the previous partners. as the commissioner has said, the nordic council of ministers, the baltic sea council and the barents regional council are all important actors in the northern dimension. but the most important thing is the commitment of the commission itself and the commitment of the member states. the northern dimension must be made a reality, so that it is really part of our common policy.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the northern dimension is both an external and an internal matter. the baltic sea is a part of the northern dimension that belongs to both. as already noted, it has become almost an inland sea of the eu since enlargement. the baltic sea is one of the most vulnerable marine areas in the world and is currently in very poor condition. all of this is not visible. the sad fact, often repeated, is that europe's largest desert lies at the bottom of the baltic sea. there's a really large oxygen-free zone where the bottom of the mine is dead. the baltic sea is quite large in surface area, but it is shallow. the average depth is only 58 meters, whereas, for example, the average depth of the mediterranean sea is several kilometers. however, the baltic sea is under severe stress. its watershed contains about half a percent of the world's population, but 10 percent of the world's shipping traffic passes through the baltic sea. in particular, oil shipments from russian ports are growing very rapidly. we know that a major oil tanker accident is a disaster anywhere. but in the baltic, the consequences would be far worse and more lasting than in the atlantic. the baltic sea's turbidity is reflected, for example, in the appearance of bluefin tuna in summer. the biggest polluter is agriculture. environmental toxins are high, with seals and eels, for example, containing about five times as many toxins as the atlantic ocean. some of these problems can only be solved in cooperation with russia, but others, such as agricultural emissions, are matters which the european union and its member states must resolve themselves.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, the european union is like a boat with a keel on the mediterranean and a mast on the baltic. the winds blowing on its sails from every direction, not least from where our northern dimensional partners russia, norway and iceland are. this is something that our friends in the southern mediterranean region sometimes forget. russia is a rich country with many poor people. the world has been thrown into a state of disorder that we humanists cannot ignore: there are street children and prostitutes, criminals and terrorists, there are major environmental problems. the health situation in russia is illustrated by the fact that the population is decreasing by one million people a year. it would be nice if the commissioner would put his headphones on, because he probably does not understand finnish. under the umbrella of the northern dimension, funding from both tacis and the neighbourhood and partnership programmes, among others, will help this eu neighbour to solve its problems. a new and more urgent northern dimension programme is needed, which should be prepared together with russia. now that the commissioner is listening, i shall continue. but the northern dimension must not be just about helping russia, it must be about cooperation. it takes mutual trust for good intentions. the northern dimension should also cover cooperation with oil-rich norway and fishery and energy-rich iceland. its programme of action must extend to the northern region as far as greenland and alaska, not to mention the barents sea. the same applies to cooperation with regional councils. the eu's neglect of its external relations in developing the northern dimension is illustrated by its not always participating in the meetings of the arctic council, the barents council and the barents arctic council. the commission must take seriously the desire of the northern member states of the eu to develop the northern regions of europe in addition to the mediterranean region, and the commissioner should listen to the debate through earphones if he does not understand the language.
mr president, i would like to start by making a point to the people who prepare the european parliament agendas and also to the english interpretation booth. today we are talking about the northern dimension, not the nordic dimension. there is a rather substantial difference. there are four nordic countries; the northern dimension encompasses the whole north of europe. it is important to remember that when drawing up the agenda next time. i think that the northern dimension stands at a crossroads. it has two options. one is that it withers away under the russian road map and becomes just a part of it. the second is that we start refocusing it, for instance towards the baltic sea. i happen to have a preference for the second option. i am very happy that the commission is dealing with the matter today and that we are able to discuss it. i am also very happy to see that there are other non-finns in the chamber besides mrs wallis, who was the only non-finn to speak about the subject in november 2003. so the concept is moving forward and that is a good thing. i would like to make three observations. firstly, i think that the northern dimension should have its own budget line. i firmly believe that it needs it. if it is put under the neighbourhood policy i think it will only get crumbs from the general budget. so give it its own budget line. secondly, i think we need to rejuvenate the northern dimension, give it more content than before. the ideas that commissioner michel put forward are a step in the right direction. however, i fully agree with, for example, mrs korhola and mrs hassi, who said that we should refocus it on the baltic sea, because that probably is the sickest sea we have in europe today. to all the people sitting in the parliament for the first time today, just remember that the baltic sea has an average depth of 59 metres compared to the two to three kilometres of the mediterranean. if there were to be an oil accident, that would be the end of the baltic sea, and i am sure no one would like to see that happen. so let us get more focus. thirdly, we need to start coordinating the institutions that are dealing with the northern dimension and the baltic sea region. we need more coordination between the nordic council, the barents euro-arctic council, and the baltic sea council. they need to work together. i want to ask the commissioner one final question. do you not think it would be a good idea to have a northern dimension as the overarching concept, but a baltic sea strategy as an underlying theme working within the northern dimension?
mr president, the northern dimension has served as a useful framework for regional cooperation across national borders, and in particular across the eu's external border with russia. it is of considerable importance for cooperation between citizens and different communities such as this, and it is of particular importance for regional security, prosperity and stability. the northern dimension should be integrated into all eu policies and not remain a separate heading. it was good to hear that the honourable member agrees. whether it is the environment, health or culture, everything has a northern dimension, as does the eu's mediterranean policy. the eu's north-eastern border is at least as dramatic as the southern mediterranean border. the northern lifestream is the deepest in europe. on the russian side, both the economic and health indicators are at the african level. hiv and aids, tuberculosis, drugs and alcoholism have brought male life expectancy down to the level of developing countries. the environmental partnership and the social and health partnership stand out most clearly among the hundreds of projects. the new programme aims to combat communicable diseases and various social threats in our neighbourhood - a question of no small importance for the future. mr president, the eu's best investments in the environment and health continue to be made behind finland's eastern border, and it is on that border that the interests of the whole eu are safeguarded above all by the finns.
mr president, the commission's report shows that the northern dimension of the union's external relations is being strengthened. it is particularly gratifying that russia's attitude towards it is changing from its previous positive attitude. in order to develop the northern dimension in the union's external relations, the commission should be given two mandates. firstly, we must involve our northern partners in the european economic area, iceland and norway, in the nordic cooperation and, among other things, in the new neighbourhood policy. secondly, the commission must step up its involvement in the activities of the nordic councils, the council of the baltic sea states, the barents euro-arctic council and the arctic council. however, my main message relates to what is completely missing from the commission's report: cooperation in the baltic sea region. until last spring, the baltic states and poland were our neighbours and partners in external relations. since their accession, the development of the baltic sea region has been based essentially on cooperation between the member states and the internal policies of the union. the commission must take this into account when drawing up the northern dimension guidelines. with the transition from neighbourhood to membership of our partners in the northern dimension, a comprehensive strategy for the development of the baltic sea region is needed, in which the member states and the commission can work together to improve environmental protection and energy efficiency in the region, as well as to improve its internal transport connections. the baltic sea cooperation forms the northern dimension of the union's internal policies, but cooperation with russia will naturally continue to be dealt with as part of the northern dimension of external relations. the baltic sea cooperation will finally give real substance to the european council's statements which have stressed the importance of the northern dimension also in the development of the union. the commission must be reorganised so that issues relating to the northern dimension are dealt with not only by the directorate-general for external relations but also by other directorates-general.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his encouraging presentation and i will continue in swedish. the eu's identity and identity policy affects the highest degree of the nordic dimension. the östersjöregionen with its eight member states is the core and heart of the region. this region has great economic development potential and imminent challenges, including environmental policy issues that must be on the agenda of the eu. invånarna väntar sig en politik som gör det möjligt att till fullo tillvarata regionens potential, something which must also be taken into account in the union's russia policy. when the european parliament set up its so-called intergrup, it was the group that was to treat the östersjöregionen as the most popular, which is a sign of how much demand was made for this cooperation. the european union is a member of the european union. this is the wound after europe's fall. östersjön must be an angel for the whole eu. a well-functioning union needs a well-functioning östersjöregion, and the region needs the eu to be able to solve a wide range of problems, both environmental, social and economic. it is also important that russia cooperates with the nordic dimension. as a symbol it would be important to support st petersburg, so that all wastewater from the city in the future would be reused for the benefit of all the people in the östersjöregionen. this is an obvious problem which the population must solve. it is unfortunate that the nordic dimension is often perceived as an internal finnish issue. it is also regrettable that the viktiga östersjösamarbetet in any way and in any way falls outside the nordliga dimension, despite östersjösamarbetet being an essential part of it. it is important that the commission does not succeed in strengthening the nordic dimension of the eastern partnership properly. research in the regions must be better coordinated and focused on common issues. the project is part of the viktiga infrastrukturprojekt kan binda samman regionen. we also need a comprehensive use of students and workers. the energy supply must be more balanced. the budget for the commission is: bygg in östersjön is an important part of the nordliga dimension. görup in a modig strategy for the region. what a mess!
mr president, i will sum up my message in two minutes. tourism is today an unquestionable engine of development and it is also a key element of our development policy. it will improve employment, living standards, health and infrastructure in many developing countries. i would like to make three points. the first point is that we need crossborder cooperation, both between the eu and developing countries, between african countries and developing countries, and within countries. this requires cooperation between the public and private sectors. the second point is that i think we need rules based on sustainable development. as many have already said in previous speeches, attention must be paid to the fight against and elimination of child sex tourism. i think we could very well afford financial aid for this object. it's largely about attitude education in the west and elsewhere. the third and final point is that we must invest in the lending of brain capital, that is to say, in sending people from europe to developing countries to help them to promote economic growth, but in a way that always takes account of the country's own starting points, the specific characteristics of the country and the culture of the country. i spoke for two minutes.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, i have always dreamed of being the last speaker before the vote: that is a guarantee for having a lot of people in attendance, although no one really listens. i wish to make three very brief points. the first is that my group and i support mr bowis' report, which is excellent. development policy is often seen as some kind of post-colonial deal that eases our conscience. this time it is not: it is about people and preventing epidemic diseases spreading around the world. these are issues that touch all of us and my group therefore supports it. my second observation is that this field needs more research. we know very little about epidemic diseases and how they spread. extensive work is being done, but more money needs to be invested and the commission, and indeed the european union, could be the right source. my final point is that we need more money. it is absolutely clear, as also pointed out in mr bowis' report, that funding is the main priority. for example, between the years 1975 and 1999, less than 1% of new medicines was for the treatment of tropical and epidemic diseases. we really need to do some work. what we basically need is more money and research, but my group fully supports the report on the table.
mr president, i have two general remarks and three more specific ones. the first general observation is that i myself participated as an official at the tampere european council in october 1999, exactly six years ago. there we drew up the 10 tampere milestones to show how, for example, progress could be made in these areas. unfortunately, progress has been very slow. the second point concerns the constitution, which franco frattini also helped to draft. it is regrettable to hear those in this parliament who oppose the constitution but who want a stronger asylum policy. these go hand in hand, and i personally hope that the constitution will come into force in some form as soon as possible. i shall now make three specific comments. firstly, this part is the only part that remains open as part of the common european asylum system, which was adopted in 1999. i do not think it is right to remain complacent about whether or not the european parliament has been consulted. the important thing is that this programme is now being implemented. the second point concerns the list of safe countries. i think that the list of safe countries at eu level is absolutely important and sensible. it is necessary and it is good that, once the directive has been adopted, these decisions are taken by qualified majority. i would like to end by expressing my support for the rapporteur. the rapporteur is concerned that a negative asylum decision might be enforced even if the appeal period against the decision is still open. of course, this cannot happen. that is why i support the rapporteur on this issue.
mr president, i wish to make five brief remarks. i support both reports as they are well written and cover the most important points. my first remark is that i like the way in which the reports focus on one fund and one programme, as this streamlines the way in which we conduct our business and makes it more effective and less complex. that is a very welcome approach from both rapporteurs. my second remark concerns the territorial indicators. coming from finland, i think it very important that we do not just focus on gdp but broaden our view and look at how difficult it is to get to a place. i welcome the rapporteurs' proposals on that point. my third remark is that i am disappointed there is no mention of the northern sparsely populated regions in the reports. i urge anyone who has not been to lapland to go and see what a real outermost region looks like. this was mentioned in article 218 of the constitution, and it is unfortunate that it is not going to be adopted on time. my fourth remark concerns the agencies. agencies and the decentralisation of agencies are part of regionalisation. i do not mind that the food agency went to parma – i can live with a chemicals agency – but we must be rational. as part of a rational regional policy we should look at where the seat of the european parliament should be. i am not sure that it is good regional policy to fly or take the train to strasbourg once a month. finally, i wish to congratulate the rapporteurs for including competitiveness and lisbon in the reports. all in all, i support them.
mr president, stubb is a very common finnish name: you probably only need an 'inen' or 'onen' at the end to turn it into hakkinen or raikkonen or something along those lines. commissioner, i welcome your initiative, it is an excellent one. but i am a little sad to see that the debate we have had in parliament was derailed, in the sense that we immediately started to talk about process: why did you not come with the paper to us first? well, you have come to us, and we see it right here. it is a very good initiative. there is nothing new in this, it is part of improved regulation and it is something that we urgently needed, especially after the french and the dutch referendums. if i have understood you correctly, you are going to withdraw 70 initiatives, which are: firstly, old; secondly, based on an impact assessment; or thirdly, based on subsidiarity. if that is the case, i am all for it. i can say this even though i sit at this end of the table. i am a federalist, i want more europe, but i want less and better regulation. the problem with the european parliament today is that we are putting up too many barriers and we should not do that. we need more freedom. just give us one answer, what is your timetable, when do you want our answer?
we are now taking a major historic step for the eu, mr president. we are expanding beyond the borders of europe for the first time. we are no longer talking about the european union, but about a great power. however, the opening of negotiations with turkey involves considerable risks. firstly, cyprus' interests must not be harmed simply because of the great country turkey. the fact that turkey does not recognise one member country is an indication of the attitude with which turkey is going to enter the negotiating process. if the negotiations are now to begin without turkey having recognised cyprus, the whole process will be very humiliating for the whole european union. turkey tells us how to proceed, not the other way around. the heads of state or government of many countries have previously stressed the need for recognition of cyprus. i hope they don't back down now. i am personally, as a representative of a small country, very concerned that we are allowing turkey to walk over cyprus. it seems that the lessons of the french and dutch referendums have not been learned. i was particularly concerned about the speeches by my colleagues mr schulz and mr cohn-bendit. they were so enthusiastic about the idea of a european superpower that they paid no attention to the status of a small cyprus. they did not speak about the status of minorities in turkey, the status of christians, kurds or even the status of women in turkey. if they only want the eu to be a great power and at the same time do not insist on the promotion of human rights in turkey, one can only ask, where is the racism? (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, the rapid rise in the price of oil has made everyone realise that oil is not eternal. this has been clear to thinking people for a long time, at least since the analysis of oil geologists of the relationship between oil demand and annual oil production. the focus now must be on developing clean alternatives with a sustainable future, such as renewable energy and improving energy efficiency. it would be foolish now to waste resources on fossil alternatives even dirtier than oil, such as coal-fired fluid or oil shale. as mr turmes said, the majority of oil is consumed in transport. that's why we need to rethink our transportation system. in addition to bio-based fuels, there is a need to develop public transport with determination, for example by increasing the use of railways in eu-funded investments in roads.
mr. president, russia is stepping up its cooperation with opec. the oil cartel is becoming more powerful. the ambitions and actions for the development of renewable energy sources are not working fast enough. the oil price remains high, europe's dependence and vulnerability to crisis are increasing. when the winds of change blow from another continent, europe is plunged into crisis. in the united states, wind and water stopped 10 percent of oil refining, but the price rose 40 percent. oil supply and demand are so close together that more crises are coming. the profits of companies should be directed towards the development of sustainable alternative forms of energy. so, down with demand, and up with research, biomass, and alternatives. but we have not tried to legislate to reduce the price-pushing stock market game, as mr goebbels said, or the oil-based social inequalities. is the presidency, which is also the leader of the g8, prepared to organise a summit of the main consumers and traders as soon as possible, before the meeting of the oil ministers next spring? we should be able to stabilize the price of oil. finally, commissioner piebalgs, what is the state of play of the energy dialogue between the european union and russia? is it going well?
mr president, i support those who have understood that the dependence on oil must be broken by a decisive investment in renewable energy sources and energy saving. the eu must support the breakthrough of new environmental technologies. new innovations can not only increase energy self-sufficiency, but also improve air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. many environmentally friendly renewable energy sources are already within our reach. biomass can be used in a wide range of applications for heating, electricity generation and fuel. it is the only renewable energy source which can replace liquid fuels for transport. the eu must set ambitious targets to reduce oil dependence and increase savings targets. at least 25% of the eu's total energy consumption must come from renewable sources by 2020.
i would like to thank mr menéndez del valle, mr president, for his successful report, which has included human rights issues in an exemplary way in the partnership and has not, as is so often the case, been set aside as a separate issue. india has made remarkable progress in recent decades. while its technological advances are universally envied, india has managed to preserve the ethnic, religious, cultural, and linguistic diversity of its society. the eu and india have close relations, we are friends. we particularly appreciate the fact that this world's largest democracy is actively seeking to correct the shortcomings in society through its legislation. the so-called positive discrimination is an example of this. however, good legislation is not enough; efforts must also be made to implement it. the national human rights commission of india has already done a considerable amount of work, but good policy decisions should also be systematically followed by local authorities. the eu can provide support in this area, for example through eu development programmes focusing on the fight against discrimination. of india's more than one billion people, some 35 percent live below the poverty line, and a large number of people are still completely deprived of basic rights. the single most significant reason for this is the caste system, which justifies the inequality of people. the situation is particularly worrying for women and the more than 160 million unbaptized dalits, whose exploitation is socially acceptable and widespread. those dalits who try to break out of the caste system by marrying into a higher caste or, for example, by acquiring education or land legally, are often subjected to physical violence and social boycott. the local authority can easily interpret the law in favor of the upper caste. we in the european parliament have often raised the human rights violations caused by the caste system, but so far we have seen little practical action by the eu. the eu should also provide india with more concrete support on human rights issues, so that it can put its good political will into practice.
mr president, commissioner, in his own way, the rapporteur, mr turmes, has drawn up a thorough report, this time on the strategy for the use of renewable energy sources. the report is well-written and speaks for itself. both the world's population and its energy consumption are projected to continue to grow. when it comes to renewable biofuels and energy crops, it is important to note that energy production competes with food production on the same land area. even at current oil and grain prices, it may be cheaper to use grain as a heating fuel than oil. meanwhile, a large portion of the earth's population is starving. that's how the market works. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, and it is hoping that the commission will be able to take this into account in its proposals for the future. we support the funding of research into renewable energy sources and energy efficiency in the seventh framework programme for research and development, as does turmes. but this must not come at the expense of fusion research. humanity must explore this energy-producing potential thoroughly. it is an energy asset that is an intermediate between renewable and non-renewable energy sources. we are facing problems that require the coordination of the world's population, food production and renewable energy production.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, i too would like to begin my minute's speech by thanking the rapporteur, mr vata, for this thorough and good report. the report reflects the expertise and experience of the rapporteur, mr vatas. in addition, his vocation as a road safety travel preacher is reflected in this report as a positive message and action to ensure that road deaths are indeed halved by 2010, as we all want. the report contains good proposals on compliance with the rules and on the safety belt, speed limits and alcohol regulations. it is very important to invest in the data and to remember the possibilities of education, and in particular of attitudinal education. it is needed in addition to knowledge, for the greatest threat in traffic is always between the steering wheel and the driver's seat.
the author. mr president, in february, king gyanendra staged a coup in nepal, overthrowing the legitimate government. parliament had been dissolved before and the opposition had no scope for action. journalists have been arrested, as have trade unionists. the king has violated the constitution and all the rules of democracy. the country has declared a state of emergency, which has no justification other than a coup d'etat. there are many human rights violations reported in nepal. more people disappear without a trace than in any other country, and only the police and the military know what happened to them. internal security forces have no control over the rule of law and are reported to torture citizens. people are being arrested and held without trial. the european parliament has no competence in foreign policy, but it is justified in taking a common political stance on the internal affairs of nepal in the interests of democracy.
for the ppe-de group mr president, nepal is one of the so-called fragile or weak states. they are characterized by the inability of the state to respond to the monopoly of legal violence and public security, and the inability to control its borders. systematic violations of human rights, lack of democracy, lack of transparency in decision-making and unilateral economic structures are also associated with these weak states. as the cases of afghanistan and sudan have shown, the problems of fragile states can create regional instability, cause uncontrolled flows of refugees and, in the worst cases, provide safe havens for terrorists. if a full-scale civil war breaks out, the cost of the conflict will be staggering. another problem is that there are people in nepal who profit from the economic turmoil. they have nothing to lose if the war continues. despite the difficulties, the international community must not leave nepal alone. innocent civilians will bear the brunt of it. i warmly support the recommendations on the un and the eu contained in the resolution and i hope that parliament will send observers to the 2006 elections.
the author. mr president, the world summit on the information society is to be held in tunisia in november. the detention and trial of mr abbou, a lawyer, shows that the meeting is being held in a country where freedom of expression is not respected and where the freedom of action of the journalists' trade union and human rights organisations, in particular the human rights league, is not allowed. we demand in our statement the immediate release of maître abbou. it is justified to urge tunisia to act in accordance with the acquis of the barcelona process to strengthen democracy, establish the rule of law, respect human rights, safeguard the right of citizens to freedom of speech and expression and guarantee the independence of the judiciary. the social status of women also needs to be improved. it is not just a problem of tunisian arab culture, but a problem of the developing world in general. in tunisia, it cannot be justified by the fact that there are other countries where women are socially subjugated.
mr president, since my good friend and former colleague, stefano manservisi, is in my chamber, i will of course begin by praising this report. i would like to make five points. firstly, the eu is africa's most important donor, and it should be for historical reasons. what makes it less effective is that we have 26 different development policies. we must join forces and make a joint contribution to a common development policy, which the commission also supports. secondly, i would like to say that the euro-africa pact presented by the commission in its communication seems to be excellent. it must be based on an equal partnership between the european union and the african union. thirdly, i believe that the current doha round of wto negotiations must produce results that improve the opportunities for africans to operate on the world market. this means the end of protectionist tariffs and export subsidies in the industrialized countries, for example in agriculture. fourthly, i note that peace, stability, health and good governance are the priority objectives for many of the still fragile african countries. finally, i would like to say that the development of africa is ultimately the responsibility of the africans themselves. in this sense, initiatives such as nepad, or the new partnership for africa's development, are essential and worthwhile. so i support the commission on this issue as well.
madam president, i would like to make three points. first, i would like to thank the rapporteur for what i think is an excellent report. 78% of us live in cities. the nice thing about cities is that they are a common european phenomenon and even anti-europeans such as mr allister could support urban ii. that is already a step in the right direction. my second point, given that we have the commissioner for regional affairs here, is to focus not only on urban affairs but other affairs towards the baltic sea region as well. that is perhaps something that the commissioner and dg regio could look at, in other words, the fact that we have eight countries with a whole bunch of big old hanseatic cities now surrounding the baltic sea area. perhaps they could think of a baltic sea strategy along those lines. i would also like to stress that cities are the most important growth, innovation, economic, social and regional centres that we have and therefore the focus should be on that. i would like to address my final point to my friend mr libicki in reference to yesterday’s debate about what mr mccreevy said or did not say. i am finnish and i come from a ‘welfare’ system. whatever mr mccreevy said, i think what we did yesterday was in many ways wrong. the world economic forum ranks finland as the most competitive economy in the world, sweden as the third and denmark as the fourth, but i can guarantee one thing: the last person i want to have preaching to me about competitiveness is a german socialist in the form of mr schulz! (laughter)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – mr president, recent events show that europe’s younger generation is just as divided on the question of our continent’s future as their parents. on the one hand, the numbers of students and young jobseekers crossing eu borders in search of new experience and career prospects is constantly increasing. on the other hand, we can see how many young people feel disconnected from this new multinational reality. indeed, young voters were instrumental in the french and dutch rejections of the constitution. some on the political extremes, both left and right, celebrate this disaffection and claim vindication for their old-fashioned ideas. however, i think most would view this with concern, for, if the younger generations are not propping up the eu, making it more democratic and inclusive in the process, who is? mrs gröner’s report therefore comes at a critical time. the youth in action programme is not merely an information campaign on the eu; it is something far more valuable. by increasing cross-border exchanges and getting young people involved in civic activities, the programme can help counter prejudice, broaden horizons and fight apathy. in the process it can influence and introduce them to the necessity and value of european cooperation, something all too many of their leaders are currently unable and unwilling to do. i would like to highlight a few points. the programme’s initiatives must build on existing grassroots locally-based youth organisations to the greatest extent possible. they should not be bureaucratically managed from brussels. second, people as young as 13 should be eligible as a rule, not as an exception, and, of course, gender balance should be upheld. finally, the range of countries with which youth partnerships are struck should be the largest possible. the final related point, beyond today’s agenda but which we will eventually need to tackle, is how to improve conditions for young people to settle in another eu country. too often an extended period of student exchange coupled with some work experience results in young people losing some of their national study and social entitlements. to avoid them being penalised in this way, we need to improve the transferability of some key social entitlements across the eu, especially for young people.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at present avian influenza is an animal disease which does not easily infect humans. the great potential danger is that a deadly virus can turn into a human-to-human pandemic virus. this risk can be reduced by limiting the epidemic in birds and by reducing the possibility of transmission of the virus from birds to humans. solidarity within the eu and our help to our neighbours, and also to those countries in asia where the disease has become endemic, will play an important role in this. the eu and its member states are the world's largest donor of development aid. it is now important that we help poorer countries with the measures needed to overcome the epidemic in poultry, and it is also important that people who have to deal with birds get vaccinated against the normal human flu, so that the bird virus does not have the opportunity to form hybrids with the human virus. here we have to help the poorer countries. ensure that the necessary medicines and vaccines are available where they are first needed to contain the pandemic. solidarity can help us to help ourselves and others.
mr president, i must say to my good friend mr newton dunn that it always makes me happy when someone writes a report on a subject about which he has a fetish. he has written a book on the ‘european fbi’. so i am quite glad to see that the rapporteur actually knows his stuff. in general terms i, like my group, represented by mr weber, support both the approach of the commission and that of the rapporteur. i like the way in which the report starts in a dramatic way. for people sitting up here, they should know that if organised crime were a state, it would be the fourth biggest economy in the world. that says quite a lot about the money involved. i also like the ambitious goals of the report. it is one of the key areas, as the rapporteur said, an area where we really have added value from the european side. it is also an area where the member states cannot do it alone; we need to do it together. there is one ‘group’ that i would like to give some encouragement to: the interior ministries of member states. they are very conservative on these matters. specifically, i like mr newton dunn’s amendment 39, where he calls for member states to collect statistics on organised crime. the only sad thing is that we have not done that already. we should have done it a long time ago. with regard to mr newton dunn’s amendments 15 and 29, which deal with the confiscation of funds and goods which have been gathered illegally, i fully agree: those assets need to be taken away. taking into consideration those three points, i would like to support the commission and the rapporteur.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating my friend, mr pittella, for a job well done. i should like to make three points. the first is that the committee on constitutional affairs made five proposals: we wanted more money for the jean monnet chairs, more money for cultural organisations, more money for organisations advancing the idea of europe, more money for european think-tanks and more money to debate the future of the european union. what happened? we got nothing! the five proposals were all rejected. i am sure mr heaton-harris is really happy about it, but i hate to tell him that i am very happy with his proposal, because he gave a lot of money to the prince programme. we asked for eur 9 million and we were given commitments of over eur 4 million. that is a great thing, and, therefore, i am pleased about the changes the committee on budgetary control made. my second point was more of a question: what do we need the money for? we all know that the french and the dutch rejected the constitution in referenda, and that we need to start debating the future of the union. that is in all our interests. the constitution is not dead, it will continue to live on and we need to restart the debate on it. for that we need money. my third and final point is also a question: can we buy the debate with money? the answer, of course, is no. however, i think, personally and as a member of the committee on constitutional affairs, that it is very important to get that debate going, and the fact that the commission has put down a plan b – sorry, a plan d – and is receiving over eur 4 million in commitments from the committee on budgets is a good thing, and also good for the future of the union.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in general terms, the eu budgetary economy is a world of abundance. the european parliament's own budget has for years been 10% air. the bureau of parliament has therefore had great difficulty in getting the 20% of the union's administrative expenditure that the other institutions make available to parliament without asking for the purpose of the money to be used. all the new uses of money that our bureau is quick to invent are not acceptable. the budgetary procedure has been particularly rigorous in heading iv, for which parliament wants to raise the ceiling by making maximum use of the flexibility instrument. the figures for the implementation of the 2005 budget presented by the commission show that there is, and has been for a long time, a lot of air in this heading, or else the commission will not implement parliament's budgetary wishes. the biggest oddity is the budgeting of the repayments of the structural funds. in its own draft budget, the council has cut the payment needs of the member states by eur 8 billion. the same ministers who, on behalf of their countries, sent the commission their estimates of the funds needed to pay for structural measures, have reduced these needs by one fifth, as they declared in the council. parliament has taken account in the budget of 40% of the structural deficit which the member states have notified to the commission. on behalf of my group, i would say that next year's budget does not correspond to our priorities for the development of the social dimension of the union.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur-general, mr pittella, and the rapporteur, mr dombrovskis, on the excellent reports. i also thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr lewandovski, and commissioner grybauskaitė for their good cooperation. the committee's draft budget reflects a strong desire to improve the eu's employment and competitiveness. the committee also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, in which it called for the establishment of a european union-wide police force. this is a consistent follow-up to the priorities of the financial frameworks adopted by parliament. this budget is the last of the current financial frameworks. the new framework is not agreed, for which the present presidency bears a great deal of responsibility. the creation of a new financial perspective is the most important objective in the near future, otherwise the eu will be paralysed.
mr president, the 2006 budget is important because it is the last budget of the current financial perspective. this budget also provides a bridge to the next financial perspective, which is currently not yet agreed. the european parliament has already accepted its negotiating position when it adopted mr böge's excellent report last spring. it is particularly important to secure funding in priority areas that are important for the future of the eu, such as improving the union's competitiveness, investing in research and development and improving the safety of citizens. by investing in research and development, we are also investing in the future of the union. however, other union policies should not be entirely ignored. the future of agriculture will require structural change, but these changes must be made in such a way that agriculture can continue to be practiced throughout the union, including in the outermost regions. the last few days have unfortunately shown that natural disasters are becoming more common. in future, the union budget should be better prepared to respond quickly both within and outside the union's borders. as regards parliament's own budget, the rapporteur, mr dombrovskis, should be congratulated on setting an example by budgeting according to real needs and not according to how much money could have been spent by developing various new projects and schemes, more or less appropriate. it is absolutely intolerable to have a budget drawn up in such a way that the 20% 'gentleman's agreement' is paid out every year, to the last cent. a responsible parliament, one which inspires the confidence of the citizens, draws up its budget on the basis of real expenditure, not on the basis of percentages.
mr president, mr president-in-office, in june this matter concerned only a few countries and, to a large extent, the united kingdom, the present presidency. you effectively torpedoed the solution to find the financial framework for the period 2007-13. now that you are preparing them yourself, the question has arisen of a package of some kind, and i ask: is cofinancing of agriculture perhaps included in this package, so that the member states themselves would pay part of the compulsory agricultural expenditure?
the rapporteur. mr president, the mediterranean is perhaps the region of the eu's neighbourhood that has had the greatest impact on the culture and history of the eu countries throughout history. our languages, our religions, our words, our numbers, all have their roots in the mediterranean. the region is also strategically important, but above all the countries south of the mediterranean are our neighbours. but history is history. the year 1995 was a turning point in the eu's relations with its southern neighbours. that's when the barcelona process began. today, ten years later, mediterranean policy is one of the priorities of the eu's external policy. so we can say that there has been a remarkable change and development in this respect. but now, ten years later, it may be worth asking whether the barcelona process is needed today. europe is so different from when the process began. i believe and am convinced that the unanimous answer of this house is that we need this cooperation. europe needs, we europeans need, and hopefully our partners need, much more than when cooperation at this level began. but we need more effective cooperation and more cooperation. it is a pleasure to note that the european parliament has always been a strong supporter of the barcelona process and that many individual members of parliament have worked hard to take this cooperation forward. i would like to highlight a few points on which i hope the barcelona process will concentrate more strongly in the future. one of them is education. there is a high level of illiteracy in our partner countries. in our own countries, we emphasize education and competence. it's the only way we're gonna make it. it's the same situation over there. i would like to stress in particular the need for young girls and women to have access to education and for the eu to contribute to the end of illiteracy. we here in the eu are very happy to stress the importance of a functioning democracy, but before we can expect democracy to work, people must be able to read. so literacy is also important for democracy. secondly, i would like to highlight economic growth and the reforms that have been brought about by it. the eu has been an active supporter of economic integration and free trade, and is the largest trading partner with individual partner countries. over 50% of these countries' trade is directed to the eu region, compared with 13% to the usa. but there is a dilemma involved. the high level of trade between the eu and partner countries has not been reflected in the eu's growing political influence. 50% of the trade doesn't equal 50% of the influence. i would also like to stress the importance of the work of the anna lindh foundation. i hope that in the years to come more will be done, because interreligious and intercultural dialogue is important. we regret to say that the barcelona process has not been successful in all respects in this respect and that there is room for improvement. migration is an important dimension of the euro-mediterranean partnership and today it seems that the problems are only increasing, so we must also invest in this area. finally, i would like to say that it has been a pleasure to serve as rapporteur for the northern region. i have learned a great deal and have also noticed the need for dialogue between the cultures of northern and southern europe. i am surprised to find that there is not enough of it in the european parliament at the moment.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we should hardly doubt these benefits, but let us not forget the problems. the problem i want to touch on is the problem of public institutions. what is happening in our schools and hospitals? what happens in nursing homes? in some places, thousands of televisions or digital boxes may have to be replaced. and social work is an area where you can never have enough. my country will be digital in 2007. that's quite a lot of advantages. in many countries these large public institutions are facing difficulties in this respect. it is hard to imagine that the sick or the elderly would have to stop using television as entertainment, even though they do not always need new digital services. schools are also in trouble. if schools are not advanced enough to have broadband through which they can get digital service, then they will have problems. in other words, by then all schools should be digitised. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres. our society has changed. if we look at school-age children, their world of play is very different from what we've ever had. or if we look at youth, they are interactive, but they are interactive with the world, but not necessarily with their neighbours. so our knowledge-based economy may be transformed into an economy of ignorance because of us, not because of the youth or the children.
mr president, listening to the uk independence party talking about the commission not being able to manage its grandchildren’s pocket money, i must say that i would rather have the commission managing it than the uk independence party! in any case, i would like to make three main points, firstly a general point, and then two points aimed at the commission and then the council. my first and general point is that i think this is a good report. the aim of the report is to improve the control environment as it stands, to make the use of money more transparent and more understandable and to get rid of fraud and mismanagement. there have been some improvements but, as many have said, a lot remains to be done. having said that, i do not think any company would receive a positive statement of assurance – das – using the method that the court of auditors does. my second point is that i would like to congratulate the commission. i know that it gets a lot of flak for the way in which it uses the money at its disposal, some of which is justified, but most of which is not. it has made a lot of improvements. i like what it has done on establishing a roadmap to a positive das and what it has done on accounting. my final point is a criticism of the council, not merely of the fact it is not present today but of the fact that – just as the uk independence party was doing a second or two ago – it is trying to create the illusion that everything is the fault of the commission or the other eu institutions. that is simply not the case. eighty per cent of the money used in the european union is used in the member states. that is why i condemn the fact that, at the ecofin council two weeks ago, the finance ministers once again refused to sign a declaration of assurances. i think we could go very much further in this whole process of the management of finances if the finance ministers were to take their responsibility. to sum up: one, we are improving the system; two, the problem is not the commission, but the member states; and three, i am optimistic that in five years’ time we will have a positive das.
i have read the document presented by the commission. my conclusion is unequivocal: much talk, little action. globalization, which is an updated version of capitalism that actually exists, is taken for granted as if it were a law of nature. eu legislation is thus contributing to the transformation of european labour into cheap labour, the emigration of jobs and the displacement of the labour market in the member states. i am interested in the work programme and am looking for a legal basis for the announcement by the president of the commission that france will receive an additional eur 50 million in aid for the cars burned in the streets in recent weeks. i do not believe that there is a legal basis for this form of aid in the legislation in force, nor is there any such proposal in the commission's work programme. are they going to bribe france into accepting eu funding plans with illegal subsidies? the commission intends to increase its manipulation of public opinion in its favour. it is a matter of propaganda, of indoctrination, but the commission is talking about a lack of communication. the commission's communication represents a dictatorship of the majority, or democracy is measured by the attitude of the majority to consulting minorities. moreover, in the french and dutch referendums, the majority voted against the commission's information and propaganda dictatorship. the rejection of the constitution was democracy and did not lead to a crisis in the eu. the failure to adopt the financial perspective for 2007-13 will, on the other hand, bring the eu to a standstill. in view of the possibility of such an emergency, the commission should start preparing annual structural fund programmes and other programmes i.e. plan b.
european integration will not succeed unless it is based on solidarity. the single market and the single currency are not enough, although they deepen integration. the commission's priorities of well-being, solidarity and security are important and the right things to do. there are 18.8 million unemployed in europe almost 20 million unemployed. what does the eu mean and offer them? not solidarity, not welfare, not security, at least. it is not enough to talk about it, we need to take concrete action. mr president, the eu must focus on the essentials. the commission's decision to dismantle unnecessary regulation and bureaucracy and to simplify eu legislation must be supported. i also hope that the principle of subsidiarity will finally be implemented. it would also bring citizens closer to the eu and legitimize its actions.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. ladies and gentlemen, the chemicals legislation was supposed to protect the health of the citizens, but it seems to be a big disappointment, a watered-down result and a victory for the chemical industry lobby with the power of big money. the agreement between the conservatives and the socialists will result in the non-testing of all chemicals in consumer products. this is a scandal when we know that chemicals cause one third of all occupational diseases and a significant proportion of allergies, asthma, infertility and cancer. the commission, and in particular the directorate-general headed by commissioner verheugen, has played a very strange role. it's been like a kinder easter egg; you never know what surprise will pop up this week. the commission has rarely sent out exactly opposite messages: it supports its original proposal, it does not support it, it supports it, it does not support it. the commission has received a great deal of information which is contrary to its official decisions. this is not good governance, ladies and gentlemen, and it is not a good example for turkey, for example, which is seeking membership. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the proposal of the committee on the environment and the green group and the gue model which would guarantee the testing of chemicals in consumer products. we would then be creating a competitive advantage for european industry. the whole world would know that european products are safe and small businesses could also safely use chemicals to protect their own workers.
mr president, the eu's chemicals regulation must above all ensure the protection of human health and the highest possible level of environmental protection. the commission's original proposal has now taken a rather large step backwards in these principles. this is primarily due to the fact that the political and ideological balance of power in all the institutions of the european union has changed markedly since the last elections. in this difficult situation, i think that the rapporteur, mr sacconi, has done an excellent job and the result obtained by the committee on the environment was a testament to the dignity of his work. i wish we hadn't had to go back on this compromise. i would like to thank the presidency in particular for its commitment to support the commission's proposal for a stricter regulation on the substitution of dangerous and harmful substances. this will help the chemical industry and increase its innovation in europe.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we decided in the itre committee to draw up an own-initiative report on the use of funds for decommissioning nuclear power stations. the reason was that the management of these funds was part of the nuclear safety package, on which parliament had delivered an opinion but on which the council had not been able to reach agreement. we are waiting for the commission to come forward with a new proposal for a directive on this. it must ensure both the safe operation of nuclear installations and the availability of sufficient resources to maintain reactors isolated from the environment for thousands of years. the management of decommissioning funds should, in principle, be a matter for national competence. however, we can accept the establishment of common rules on the basis that the safety of workers and the health of citizens are affected by the nuclear power plants' operation across national borders. the potential problem always crosses national borders. unfortunately, we cannot rely on the way that all member states do to fund resources in such a way that we have full assurance that there will be enough money for many generations. the decommissioning of the bohunice power station, not to mention ingalina, is proof of this. they require eu funding. if decommissioning funds are not fully collected from the price of electricity, competition in the electricity market is distorted. in this respect, the funds also concern the common market. the electricity produced by nuclear power plants must not be cheap simply because the decommissioning of the plants will be borne by future generations. the rapporteur, mr president, rebecca harms, has done a great deal of work in preparing the reports which will be sent to the commission for the drafting of the new directive.
mr president, commissioner, the closure of the bohunice nuclear power plant is facing the same problem as that of ingalina. both are currently in a condition to be used, according to the international atomic energy agency. the energy crisis in europe is continuing, partly because of the arbitrary fluctuations in the price of oil. consumption is increasing, and at the same time we must finally start to tackle the greenhouse effect. however, the new small member states, which do not have sufficient alternative forms of energy, will be forced to close their power plants due to the pressure from the old member states during the accession phase. this pressure was partly due to fear and distrust of soviet technology, partly for financial gain. it is right and fair that slovakia and other new member states in a similar situation receive sufficient financial support to cover the costs of closure. we propose 400 million euros. however, the closure is likely to be carried out by large enterprises from the old member states. but the problem remains: our energy consumption is growing, and renewables are not going to be able to make up the difference. in sweden, for example, the energy used for heating has multiplied in ten years. to the cooling! the oil boom is being swallowed up by china. we need a new energy policy.
mr president, i should like to add ‘eutrophication’ – probably the most serious ecological problem in the baltic sea – to the text distributed to you. the text should be amended to read: ‘stressing the further need to enhance cooperation between eu member states and in particular to reduce eutrophication’.
i take this opportunity, mr president, mr president-in-office, because i have tabled my own question on the same subject, question no 17, which you may not have time to answer during this question time. i ask whether it is possible to include in this compromise proposal the cofinancing of agriculture in order to reach an agreement on the abolition of the united kingdom and its special membership levy?
mr president, commissioner, i could not disagree more with the previous speaker. i think the farming of animals for fur in europe is in much better shape than farming animals in china. deer farming, fox farming and mink farming are totally different issues. i would like to take this opportunity to express my support for mrs scheele’s conclusion that the commission proposal should be rejected. however, i do not agree with her reasons for doing so. firstly, the legal basis of the commission proposal is questionable. this proposal seeks to implement a trade agreement allowing the eu to comply with its international trade obligations, but its contents relate to the welfare of wild animals, for which the eu does not and should not have competence. the treaty only empowers the eu to take responsibility for animal welfare in the context of agriculture, transport, internal market research and areas such as the welfare of farmed animals, fur farming included. secondly, the commission has failed to provide an impact assessment of the proposed directive. the estimated cost of testing for a single type of trap varies from eur 30 000 to eur 100 000. carrying out the testing by technical means would make the requirements more reliable, cheaper and easier to measure and standardise across the member states. but there is a problem, as mr evans said. laboratory animals are animals too and we have to take care of their welfare as well. furthermore, the idea that home-made traps would require a special permit for each use is hallucinatory. how does the commission think the permit requests of tens of thousands of finnish trappers would be handled in brussels? thirdly, like many of the previous speakers i would like to underline the detrimental effects of the proposal on the conservation of wildlife and nature. the raccoon dog, which is not a native species of finland but is an extremely efficient predator of birds and other wildlife, can only be effectively managed by trapping. if the trapping were made as difficult as the proposal suggests, the loss of biodiversity would be enormous. in general, it is essential to rely on local knowledge in applying trapping and hunting legislation. only local people have sufficient knowledge of the local flora and fauna to help set up balanced legislation. the wrong kind of intervention at eu level can compromise an otherwise noble objective, as in all areas where subsidiarity should be upheld. i sincerely ask the commission to withdraw this proposal in order to avoid humiliation tomorrow.
mr president, the resolution under discussion has the support of a large majority in this parliament, and it deserves it. in the field of defending human dignity and fundamental human rights, we as european politicians have the opportunity and the duty to defend ourselves ever more vigorously. this resolution is, as has been said, a good example of how we can bring our committees' opinions to the plenary. the hearing held in the subcommittee on human rights showed that there is real concern about the failure to achieve human rights in laos, cambodia and vietnam. as for cambodia, in the past it may have been desirable to give the country time to normalize and recover from the khmer rouge era, but the frontier is now coming up. when the oppressed continue to oppress, the rest of the world must intervene in human rights. this inevitably means that we have to consider conditionality to put pressure on governments. the news of the arrests of opposition politicians and journalists, for example, does not bode well. the international community must pay particular attention to the situation of women. in human rights work, the promotion of the rights of vulnerable groups such as women, children, and especially girls, minorities, indigenous peoples and the disabled is a priority and it is good that the resolution has paid attention to this. we do not even have a precise picture of the situation in laos, because foreign human rights organisations are not allowed in. but we know that the realization of fundamental rights in the country is not a matter of discussion. the european parliament is now giving its broad political support to the resolution, while recalling its previous resolutions, and it is clear that we are following developments in these countries closely and that if the situation does not improve we will certainly come back to the matter.
for the alde group mr president, i welcome this presentation on the olympic torch by the committee on culture, chaired by mr sifunakis. true, the olympics have a long tradition, dating back to hellenistic times, just as siphonakis well illustrated in his speech. as has been the tradition, during the olympic games, during those sixteen days, all hostilities are to be suspended and then the nations come together. the nations have shown then, and i hope they will show in the future, that they can live side by side in peace. sports are a great tool for this. we must remember that we have not always been able to keep the peace during the olympic games. europe will experience a dark day on 5 september 1972, when palestinian terrorists attacked the olympic village in munich. in all, sixteen people were killed, mainly israelites. let this be a warning example to us that nothing like this should ever happen again in international sport and sporting events, but that on the contrary sport, which is meant to bring people together to compete in the spirit of fair play, should unite nations and that this could be the wealth, this could be the source of growth for which we continue to work in sport. i must say that sport is a great way of building a better world. when we speak of olympic peace, the word peace here is meant as if it were a temporary peace. let us aim for lasting peace between peoples and nations, and sport as a key instrument for building this peace.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mrs toia for her report. electronic communications play a key role in developing the european knowledge-based economy, fostering innovation and creating value for customers. when fully implemented, the eu regulatory framework for electronic communications will enable innovative services with competitive prices to develop on a level playing field throughout the internal market. i would like to support the commission in monitoring and enforcing the implementation process of the eu regulatory framework in the member states. currently, the establishment of the eu regulatory framework for electronic communications has been a success story of the internal market, the field being one that has proven to be most beneficial for clients. this success has been demonstrated by a decrease in prices and an increase in services in the electronic communications field. however, the regulatory framework has also encountered problems, owing to its slow implementation in many member states. on the one hand, these problems are reflected in numerous ongoing infringement procedures that the commission has initiated against member states who fail to transpose parts of the framework. on the other hand, some member states’ national regulatory authorities might even have done too much. efficient operators and efficient markets should not be penalised. in some member states over-regulation has led to draconian competition where no operator generates any revenues. regulation should be there to please the customers, not only the competitors. the commission should continue efficient monitoring of the implementation of the whole electronic communications framework and it should be completed within the shortest time possible. once fully implemented, it is also very important that the monitoring task be shifted from the national regulatory authorities to the competition authorities. in this respect, we should put more trust in competition law. i urge the commission to lower exorbitant international roaming charges – such as the ones the commissioner has already mentioned – and to further increase customer visibility in international pricing on the website. i heard that the website is updated only once every six months. that is not regularly enough. lastly, i wish to point out that functioning mobile number portability system is vital to healthy competition and there should be no rates – or at least very low rates – on carrying your number in every member state. the deadline for realising the number portability operation should be shortened in those member states where it is still a serious problem.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the fact is that this current system of regulation of electronic communications does not work properly. i say that as rapporteur for the report on the framework directive of the previous parliament. as a result, the internal market in electronic communications is not developing, the necessary competition is not developing everywhere and the consumer does not have the necessary range of services for which fierce competition would be required. the services are therefore not sufficiently cheap. we have many, many examples of this. this also puts the member states in a different position, as there is a lot of competition and money is spent on advertising. if there is no competition, you can spend money on product development and develop more than the one who has to compete hard. the companies are thus placed on an unequal footing between member states. the second fundamental reason is that the member states do not apply this legislation, and that is a problem. the role of regulatory authorities is very different in different countries, and their roles should be brought closer together. how do we expect to achieve the lisbon objective in this situation? we must work with the commission to convince the member states that they will benefit from applying this legislation. as for the new legislation, it must be technology neutral. it must be a framework rather than a lack of detail, and it must guarantee a competitive environment and a safe service for consumers. of course, we have to reduce the roaming charges. we share the commission's concerns, so i think we can also move forward together.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr mechtild rothe on his excellent report. he's done a lot of good work, and we're very supportive of him on my team. europe, which is really investing in energy efficiency, is again setting an example for other continents. we are setting an example for the rest of the world, because serious and effective action is needed now that climate change is threatening us all. the target of a percentage increase in savings per year is tough. every year, in my own country, for example, it is considered impossible unless we already have an energy-efficient starting point. it is of course unreasonable to disregard some of the active energy saving work already done because it has been done so-called too early. it is therefore justified not to punish those who have already contributed to efficiency in good time. in my country, guidelines for energy-efficient public procurement and buildings are already in place. the kyoto negotiations are therefore, fortunately, able to continue in the light of montreal. we are also working effectively in negotiations, because it is not just technology that is needed, but people, leaders and politicians.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, mr president of the presidency, parliament and the council have reached a compromise solution for next year's budget. this was done in the context of the negotiations which will take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow on the guidelines for the budgets for the years 2007 to 2013. neither of the budgetary authorities wanted to risk the failure of these negotiations because of the 2006 budget. i do not think there are many representatives in this chamber, apart from the united kingdom, who would like to see the uk's special contribution continued in the coming years. there's no basis for that. the budget for next year follows the line indicated by the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the absence of a budgetary dispute would have left parliament with more payment appropriations than the draft agreed by the negotiators, according to rule 272. the european parliament, at first reading, blew the biggest balloon into the budget by adding over three billion euro to the repayment appropriations for the structural funds. the council broke this bubble in the conciliation procedure without any specific consultation and without parliament being able to stand by its position. it is strange that the commission did not feel the need to defend its own original proposal but took the council's side in the negotiations. we in parliament will remember this if the structural funds do not have enough money to pay the payments. the union is being militarised in an astonishing way under the constitution, even though there is no eu constitution and it will not come in the form rejected by the french and dutch peoples. the eu thus increases its competences, even if they have not been legally conferred on it by the member states. our group is very critical of next year's budget. it is possible that some members will agree with the rejection proposal. we want a more social and less militaristic europe.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the budget, mr pittella and mr dombrovskis, for their excellent work on the budget and the chairman of the committee, mr lewandowski, for his leadership in the negotiations. the budget line now presented aims to improve employment in europe. the commission has therefore taken the initiative of launching a number of multiannual programmes. this applies in particular to the research framework programme and the training programmes. in this way, parliament shows the way forward for the eu. this budget is the last budget under the current financial perspective. the new financial frameworks should strengthen european business and thus employment. research and product development, training and the promotion of cohesion play a key role in this work. unfortunately, all good plans are being thwarted. the luxembourg proposal in june already drastically reduced the appropriations for improving competitiveness by as much as eur 60 billion. despite prime minister tony blair's promise of improvements, britain's performance is even worse. there has been no increase in r & d funding. the budget for construction has been cut by eur 12 billion, in addition to the eur 29 billion cut by luxembourg. the rural development, a cornerstone of the reform of agriculture, is in danger of being completely destroyed. luxembourg has already deducted eur 14 billion from the framework and the uk is about to deduct another eur 8 billion. the budget should be forward-looking and strengthen measures that no member state can afford to take alone. this budget is a sign of things to come.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i am relieved that the energy services directive has improved in the negotiations with the council. the council thus brought realism to the proposals of parliament and the commission. i hoped that this directive would have given an opportunity to correct the distortions of competition which the failed emissions trading directive entails. i was opposed to the last to binding savings targets common to all member states because i thought they would punish countries which had long been taking energy-saving measures. paradoxically, perhaps, by treating the member states as one, we are putting them on an unequal footing. for some, the commission's proposed target was very strict, for others it was ridiculously easy. in the common market, this would have been a distortive factor. the criteria for savings are now cost-effective, giving member states the necessary flexibility. this is my interpretation of the result. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. however, the outcome is also risky if the comitology procedure does not take account of reason and reasonableness as a guiding principle. the risk is unbridled bureaucracy. the method of calculating savings must be fair and flexible and above all fair to those countries which have been saving for many years.
madam president, from a finnish perspective, i must say that i am slightly worried about the british debate here because, on the one hand, we have mrs ludford from the liberal democrats who agrees with mr batten from the ukip party and then you have mr cashman who is widely applauded by the british minister. it is not very often that you get applause from a british minister in the european parliament, so mr cashman should be congratulated for that. nevertheless, i wish to make three brief points. the first concerns the balance between freedom and security. we have taken the issue too lightly and we are not finding the right balance. perhaps we are rushing things. i have heard people say that those who come from countries where terrorism is a threat must take this issue in a different way to those from a country where there is no threat. i disagree: this is a common problem and we should all look at it from a broader perspective. my second point concerns cost-efficiency or efficiency in general. to me it seems that we have to calculate every piece of legislation carefully, we must make an estimation and base our legislation on that. i do not think we have done that yet. we have not gone far enough in trying to estimate how much this legislation costs. i think we are also chasing the wrong crooks, because if you are a crook who does not have the brains to use hotmail or prepaid mobile phone networks, then you are a stupid crook and we are really chasing the stupid crooks. my third and final point concerns procedure. it might seem that i am against this whole initiative, but i am not. what came out of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs was quite good. it was a good compromise. therefore i would urge this european parliament not to be bullied by the council or the uk presidency but to find a compromise and push it through.
madam president, firstly, i would like to thank mr alvaro for his excellent work as parliament’s rapporteur on this issue; mrs cederschiöld too has done excellent work as co-rapporteur. i sincerely hope your efforts will not be in vain, as the hard work accomplished was circumvented at the last minute by a deal between the council and the commission and, shame to say, by the two biggest groups in this house. the idea to rush this proposal through is not a good one. yes, we all agree that terrorism should be fought efficiently. yes, we all agree that electronic communications data can be very useful in tracking terrorists, drug smugglers and human traffickers. yes, that kind of information should be retained and used against those who are threats to our society. but no, all citizens should not be treated as criminals. no, i am not convinced that the compromise package proposed is a balanced one. and, no, i do not think we have enough information available about how this proposal would affect the privacy of individuals and what kind of threats might be posed to civil liberties. i am against this proposal. firstly, because the so-called compromise allows the use of retained data when investigating serious crimes, without defining these serious crimes. are infringements of intellectual property rights in peer-to-peer networks serious enough crimes for the data retained to be accessed? one could suppose so when reading the statements from the content industry. if we are passing terrorist laws and, at the same time, fulfilling other objectives, we should then at least have a chance to debate and examine them properly and have the right to proper procedures. secondly, we are leaving too much decision-making to the member states. however, in electronic communications the frontiers are artificial. according to which jurisdiction would the seriousness of a crime be assessed when a packet of ip data circulates in different member states, for example? thirdly, i am opposed to this proposal because it leaves completely in the air what kind of costs it brings and who should bear them. various estimates have been presented, and it is without question that the costs to operators and internet service providers are high. these costs should at least be reimbursed if we were to impose any new data retention requirements.
mr president, both bulgaria and romania's preparations for eu membership seem to be proceeding as expected. both countries have faced problems, but they are not insurmountable. it should be stressed that the membership of each country must be assessed on the basis of its own achievements. it is hoped that both countries will be able to join the union in early 2007. the union is ready, both politically and institutionally, to accept bulgaria and romania as members. the situation is unclear as regards future enlargements. this is also shown by the fact that the committee on foreign affairs has not been able to reach agreement on the report on the enlargement strategy. future enlargement and the renewal of the treaties must be seen together. many are seeking to limit future enlargement and believe that the constitution rejected in the referendum should be quickly put into effect. the strategy will be accompanied by discussions on the union's reception capacity and alternatives to full membership. this road is not realistic and leads to a dead end. the future must be built on two facts. firstly, it is clear that the union is still expanding rapidly, and secondly, the constitution has finally fallen. it is therefore wise to embark on the preparation of a new treaty which is appropriate for the enlarged union and which is accepted by the citizens of the member states. the enlarged union cannot be too close, so more arrangements for closer cooperation are needed than at present. the enlargement of the union will therefore require internal differentiation.
the author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the joint resolution on the situation of ngos in the russian federation. unanimity is also important because it makes it easier for us to influence russian decision-makers. since this is a matter of urgency, we social democrats wanted to concentrate on this issue in the statement. the matter is also very busy at the duma table, which will return to the matter in five days. we shall be discussing the statement on chechnya at the next sitting of this parliament. we fully support the position of the russian ombudsman vladimir lukin, who says that the draft law is contrary to the russian constitution. it is also against international law. i hope that lukin's opinion will be relevant, because lukin has been the chairman of the joint delegation between the european parliament and the duma for many years. the freedom of ngos to operate is a key element of democracy and a stable civil society, which the russian leadership has said it supports. as a member of the council of europe, russia is committed to the convention on human rights, and plans to restrict freedom of association, for example, are in complete contradiction with it. the european parliament is concerned about recent developments in russia and now has a good opportunity to influence the development of democracy. it can show that change can be made. of course, we hope that this will happen.
