mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of global warming, on which ignorance goes hand in hand with very strong judgments, i shall confine myself to a few questions. first question: is there really significant and sustainable warming? this now seems to be firmly established, particularly by measurements made on ocean masses or on large glaciers. secondly, does this warming have only negative effects? this is not necessarily the case in siberia, for example, where the taiga and tundra could give way to other landscapes, but it is certainly different in the case of the terrible progress of desertification in africa or weather disasters such as el niño. thirdly, if we decide to combat this phenomenon, is it certain that it is mainly due to human activity? there have been at least four warming and freezing periods in the quaternary that could not be attributed to man. fourthly, if the warming is due to the release of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide into the atmosphere from the human combustion of fossil organic energy sources, then action is certainly needed, but is it worthwhile for western europe to make an effort at the expense of its own competitiveness, while other powers, such as the united states and china, the world's first and second largest polluters, wash their hands of it, thus jeopardizing the success of the operation, despite the encouraging information from some americans that the previous speaker has just given us? finally, fifth and last, systematic reforestation and the use of renewable or new energy sources must be encouraged. but be realistic, it will take a long time before they are sufficient for the needs. in the meantime, should we not, even from an ecological point of view, consider diversifying energy sources, particularly nuclear energy? the french national front, 25 years ago, was the first political force to legitimately draw attention to the risks of nuclear energy, a prediction which was unfortunately confirmed by the chernobyl disaster. but as science advances and technology can evolve, fusion would use the material without leaving the sustainably hazardous waste of current processes. and until we get there, even in the fission process, there may be elements, like thorium, that are less dangerous than the ones we know today. this is certainly the way science can go. it requires considerable effort and it must be free from dogmatism.
i have received a motion for a resolution (see minutes) at the end of this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon on wednesday.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a60073/2004), by manuel medina ortega, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directives 72/166/eec, 84/5/eec, 88/357/eec and 90/232/eec and directive 2000/26/ec of the european parliament and of the council on insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles.
i would like to thank you, mr harbour, and i would like to take this opportunity to pay my respects to commissioner mc creevy. i did not know that this was the first time he had spoken before this house. this is the first time under my presidency. i would like to welcome you, commissioner.
on behalf of the group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the proposal for a regulation on sales promotion has undergone many changes since the beginning of the debate process, having been rejected by the council no less than four times in the last three years. but why should we be surprised? it is not surprising that the commission is still blocked in its efforts to protect consumers, since no one is clear about the options it has chosen in the field of european consumer rights, despite the adoption of the green paper on consumer protection almost two years ago, in march 2003. is there still the ambition of one day having a harmonized consumer law, as the directive on unfair commercial practices seems to promote, or has any harmonization been abandoned altogether, as the draft directive on services in the internal market seems to demonstrate? in addition to this lack of clarity on the strategy, there is, if i may say so, a certain confusion on concepts and in particular on key concepts such as the internal market clause, mutual recognition, or the famous principle of the country of origin to which the draft texts refer in alternation, without it being very clear why, in what case, this principle was chosen over another and what the benefits will be for both companies and consumers. it is therefore understandable that states with particularly protective consumer legislation are reluctant to let the matter slide and to subscribe unreservedly to a system which, however it may be called - mutual recognition or the principle of country of origin - will inevitably lead to legal dumping, that is to say, to a gradual alignment of national legislation on the least-favoured-nation system. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the commission's position on the proposal for a regulation. finally, there is still disagreement on the legal instrument, as you have just pointed out, commissioner. it is not just a procedural point, since the choice of regulation over directive remains for me questionable in an area where, in view of extremely strong cultural sensitivities, as we have seen with the question of balances, member states should be given some flexibility. let's get serious about this. we must stop making all sorts of claims about the need to revive the lisbon strategy and stop pretending that the creation of millions of jobs in europe depends on the regulation of games, promotional competitions and other commercial cheques. the lisbon strategy is better than that. the three pillars of competitiveness, social development and environmental protection must therefore be given equal weight.
on behalf of the group. mr president, the corbett and méndez de vigo report focuses almost exclusively on a number of new provisions in relation to the current treaties, such as the replacement of the rotating presidency by a more stable two-and-a-half-year presidency, the creation of a post of foreign minister without communitizing the cfsp, the strengthening of the powers of the european parliament, the right granted to national parliaments to question the commission if they consider that it has exceeded its prerogatives, or the possibility offered to one million citizens to propose to the commission to submit a draft law on a particular subject. well, if the text submitted to the citizens or parliaments for ratification were indeed limited to this type of article, many of the members of my group - not all, but many of them, and i will be among them - would not oppose the draft constitutional treaty. we are in favour of europe and we believe that everything that contributes to its democratization and its proper functioning deserves to be examined in a favourable light. we are not the ukip type. we believe that there is a great need for europe in this globalised world, but the question is what european orientations and structures do we need? we believe that we need first of all guidelines and structures to enable financial markets to be controlled at union level, rather than being subjected to the full force of the market as they are today. this is possible if we agree to use powerful levers such as the central bank or the taxation of the capital of large public clusters; to establish rules to empower enterprises in social, environmental, democratic and ethical terms; to direct the appropriations thus released towards major policy priorities which are publicly debated, democratically established and periodically evaluated. europe is the appropriate level to meet the challenges that a single country would find it very difficult to meet today because of globalisation. we need, then, for this very reason, guidelines and structures to reverse the trend towards the removal of the main decision-making centres, to regain popular sovereignty and the power to make political choices instead of bowing to the laws of the market, even if it feeds fatalism, the deadly enemy of democracy. but europe is also a relevant level for achieving such objectives. it is on this scale that the rights of information and of action of employees, citizens, elected representatives and public authorities should be promoted, so that they can effectively curb the arrogant power of those who tend to regard themselves as the feudal lords of modern times. finally, if there is one role which we are rightly expected to assume fully from europe, it is that of a responsible global actor, that is to say, one determined to use its weight to bring about the emergence of other rules in international relations. what positive influence could there be, for example, on the european choice to expressly ban all recourse to war as a means of solving the world's problems in order to make political force prevail over the policy of force, from the middle east to the caucasus, or on the choice to conclude europe-south alliances even in the international financial or commercial institutions in order to reverse the deadly logic of economic war, or on the choice to affirm vis-à-vis the united states, of course, the will to establish, with this great nation as with others, the most ambitious partnership possible but within the framework of complete political and strategic independence? if you have such ambitions for europe, some of you may say to us, why are you opposing this draft constitution? the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. i am thinking in particular of the key principles of an open market economy where competition is free. i am thinking of the statute and the extremely liberal mission of the european central bank. i am thinking of the commission's discretionary powers in competition matters or the explicit subordination of any european security and defence policy to the policy decided within the framework of nato. the old provisions are being supplemented by new ones, widening the gap between the concept of europe as it is and the one i have just mentioned. the draft treaty contains an article which, in the spirit of the multilateral agreement on investment, calls for the abolition of restrictions on foreign direct investment and other articles which are very ambiguous in relation to patenting of living things and cultural diversity. in all these areas, we need not a propaganda campaign that avoids all contradictions, but a frank, public, pluralistic assessment of the experience of the last few years, which has led to a crisis of confidence between citizens and the european institutions. the report by our colleagues corbett and méndez de vigo, on the other hand, says nothing about this part of the draft constitutional treaty devoted to the policies and functioning of the union, which represents two thirds of the whole text. we will therefore oppose this report as we oppose the draft constitutional treaty itself, but i stress and i repeat that our 'no' to many of us is open to the alternative. he is a european "non".
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is one word missing from this constitution: the word 'sovereignty'. it is replaced by the word 'identity'. it is not the same thing at all, because, in all corners of the world, as we know, there are peoples who are strong in their identity and who demand, precisely, sovereignty: the palestinians, the iraqis, so many others. but now, in europe, there will be peoples who, at a time when they are threatened with losing their identity with the entry of turkey into the european union, will lose their sovereignty with the constitution. one word has disappeared, the word 'sovereignty', another has appeared, the word 'law', european law, a word which is the very symbol of national democracies. there will therefore be a european law, which will now be legally superior to national laws, even constitutional ones. so our constitution will become for each of our peoples the equivalent of the internal rules of a region of europe. this supranational european law will now be adopted by majority vote and not by unanimity. so there is no longer any possibility of opposition from a particular people, even to defend its vital interests. thirdly, this supranational european law will be produced by a brussels bureaucracy which sees itself as having the attributes of a state. this bureaucracy becomes a full-fledged international actor, which will have the right to conclude international agreements, it will have a minister of foreign affairs - the word does not mislead - it will benefit from the transfer, in its heritage of attributions, of the powers of a superstate: definition of rights, definition of public services, immigration and border issues. at the same time, and this is my last word, national democracies will be trampled underfoot. the national parliaments are being deprived of the power to legislate. in compensation, they are given the right to give opinions.
mr president, commissioner, let me first of all congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo, on their excellent arguments. but let me also thank valéry giscard d'estaing, without whom i am sure we would not be here today discussing this historic milestone for europe. we can measure the distance traveled. the greatest danger for europe would be to fall back on intergovernmental methods. it is also regrettable that the european governments have not followed all the proposals made by the convention, with the consequence that the constitution will have to be adapted as and when necessary. we need more europe in a globalised society, faced with terrorism, migratory flows, climate change, economic upheaval. we need more europe, more union, a union based on our universal values, more democracy. the constitution allows all this, by strengthening the role of the european parliament and at the same time involving the national parliaments. the supporters of the rejection of this constitution speak of brussels bureaucracy, of the loss of national sovereignty, of a european superstate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's their inability to look to the future. how else can we explain the fact that our 25 european governments have all agreed to adopt this constitution? they certainly didn't intend to do hara-kiri. because we must work collectively, together, for the benefit of the european citizen and for future generations, we say 'yes' to the constitution for europe. europeans have to choose between withdrawal and paralysis or openness and modernity. the choice is simple: for a free and responsible europe, we must ratify the constitution for europe.
mr president, as a french socialist and a european socialist, i shall vote tomorrow, with emotion and pride, on the report of our two colleagues. that is why i am making my speech a tribute, a tribute to altiero spinelli: he is the man who drew up the first european constitution in this assembly elected by universal suffrage. i do not forget that he was a former member of the communist youth and i turn to my colleagues and say to them: do not forget yourselves! he is an old anti-fascist militant, an old federalist, and i pay tribute to our colleagues in parliament who, at the sitting of 14 february 1984, voted for this bill. poettering had voted for it, hänsch had voted for it, wurtz had voted against it, vergès had voted against it. they will do the same in their faithfulness. if you read the text which we are voting on tomorrow, you will see that it takes up many things from that old text. i've taken a few examples. article 3 of the spinelli report enshrines the principle of european citizenship; article 4 the respect for fundamental rights; article 6 the legal personality; article 9 the purpose of the union, including full employment; article 34 deals with european laws; article 44 deals with sanctions. the fourth part is the third today, article 82 ratification, and i could go on. what i mean is that by inscribing tomorrow's vote in this long history, this constitution is not just a hair on the soup: it is in a great historical movement. coal began more than 50 years ago as the mineral of reconciliation. the single currency, which has been in place for more than ten years, the euro, was the currency of german reunification. so let us make this constitution an outstretched hand to the peoples who have joined us after the dark night of totalitarianism is over.
mr president, more than ever, the news is showing us every day that we need europe. we need europe to protect us, to initiate and to carry an original social model. we need europe to create growth, to coordinate our economic policies and to fight unemployment. we need europe to put in place a genuine research and development policy on a par with that of the united states. we need europe to protect and preserve our environment and, finally, we need a europe that has weight in the world, with a european defence, military and civil, and a genuine foreign policy. the balance of the world will not be the same depending on whether europe exists or not. to meet this immense demand, we need more efficient, more transparent and more democratic institutions. we need institutions that finally move away from an all too often intergovernmental mode of operation, where decisions are always taken without the involvement of the citizens. we need institutions which favour community decision-making because it is the only truly democratic way. we also need strong institutions to enable us to move towards a more integrated europe, despite the excessive flexibility of the heads of state or government. that is why we support this excellent and talented report on the one hand and the draft constitution on the other. even if it does not go as far as we would have liked, this constitution is a symbolic and important step towards a more united, stronger and more democratic europe: this is what we owe to our fellow citizens.
mr president, the constitution is the founding document of a state, and it is with full knowledge of the facts that this term has been chosen as the one which gives the european union a flag, an anthem, a motto and even a national holiday. so, despite your pathetic denials, the european constitution is indeed the founding document of a european superstate. it is the death of our nations, often millennia old, their transformation into so many provinces without power, in this omnipotent and centralized bureaucratic state. i know that you easily accuse of lying, of cowardice, even of stupidity, those who do not share your blind belief in the benefits of brussels-based europe. it's convenient, it avoids explanation and allows us to stick to the peremptory claims of the happy few who know, or think they know, what's good for the masses they deem uned. the fear that most of you feel about holding referendums on the constitution is a reflection of the contempt you have for the citizens. what are the benefits? i see the direct consequences of european policies as the ruin of our agriculture and our economies, relocations and deindustrialization, endemic unemployment and poverty, the disintegration of our social protection systems, the opening up of our frontiers to mass immigration, terrorism and international crime. it is true that the europe of brussels is not the only one to blame, it could only create or aggravate these phenomena with the complicity of governments of all political persuasions who have decided to sacrifice the independence of their countries and the freedom of their people to the leviathan of brussels. the european constitution will complete this monstrous edifice, begun more than forty years ago. you call it wishful thinking, we reject it because europe and the europeans deserve better than this super state without a soul. we reject it in the name of freedom, in the name of independence, in the name of sovereignty which belongs to the peoples alone and is inalienable, in the name of the right of these same peoples to self-determination. the constituents have betrayed their country. their responsibility is overwhelming. they will be cursed by history and by generations to come.
i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider this constitutional treaty not as a finished product but as a perspective. the european idea has never been fixed, and it will not be fixed today in the text of this new treaty. this constitution is an important, essential, indispensable step, but it is only a step. mr giscard d'estaing said that this text was unexpected. i would rather say that it is largely improvable, since it still carries, despite its indisputable advances, the scum of past texts. our citizens are prepared to live with this text as a progress report on their common history, but they do not want to be held hostage by it for decades, with a political cursor indefinitely stuck on what was the european compromise at the beginning of the 21st century. and that is where amendment no 17, which i tabled on behalf of my group and which many colleagues have co-signed, comes into its own. with this very clear and very short amendment, our parliament, i quote, 'declares its willingness to use the new right of initiative which the constitution will confer on it to propose improvements to it'. i thank our two co-rapporteurs, richard corbett and iñigo méndez de vigo, for their support for this amendment, because through it our assembly shows that it is attentive to the social and democratic advances that our fellow citizens expect, while remaining still and always the driving force behind european development. the text of the constitution would be blocked, and mr giscard d'estaing would not like it if the constitutional treaty were to be engraved in marble, not the marble of the equestrian statue of the president of the convention but perhaps the marble of the tombstone of the european project. the green group therefore calls again for europe to be ahead of the game, because the constitutional process is still in its infancy and it is precisely its young people who are its strength and interest.
in writing. if it were up to the greens alone, the draft constitution would be much more ambitious than the one presented to us. it would make possible the political, social and ecological europe we are advocating. it would be a project without ambiguity and without uncertainty as to the objectives, without this third part which, by merely repeating the previous treaties, is in contradiction with an ambitious overall project for europe. yet, despite its imperfections, i will vote and i call for a yes vote on this constitutional treaty. because it would be an aberration and a major political mistake to join the camp of those who say no to the constitution, on the pretext that the final text does not live up to the challenges. we need europe more than ever, even if it is imperfect. with a constitution we will succeed in launching this europe of peace, which is based on common values such as human rights and democracy. it is this major act that will make european citizens feel united in a genuine common purpose. it is a militant yes which i will defend by my vote on the corbett report. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction.
we shall therefore continue the debate on the report by mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european construction project has created the largest area of law and economic freedom in the world, but the organization of our continent cannot stop there. europe must become a political actor, a political entity with democratic power and diplomatic power. we want a europe of the states and the peoples and, therefore, to strengthen citizens' confidence in the european union. that is what the constitution signed in rome proposes. i would like to congratulate our rapporteurs, mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo, on the progress made by the new treaty. the rapporteurs are sending a clear message to our fellow citizens: the constitution is good, it is the best text possible. it proposes a more integrated, more efficient, more political europe, more responsive to the citizens, stronger inside and outside. the constitution, however, does not increase the union's powers. it prevents the emergence of a centralized superstate; it shall confer the legal personality of the union; it gives itself a face, a long-term president and a foreign minister. it guarantees all our fellow citizens the protection of the charter of fundamental rights. the european parliament is gaining ground on the european political scene and, finally, the constitution facilitates the use of enhanced cooperation to meet the challenges of the future. today, the destiny of a european country is now written in the affirmation of its european personality. the constitution is the best way for our states to face the future, today. unity on a text that they all approved is a great ambition. it is now up to politicians and first of all ourselves to make this ambition a reality.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the draft european constitution makes the european citizen a major player in the construction of a united europe. it will be subject to approval by our countries; hungary and lithuania have already said yes to it and we welcome that. in the form of a single document, more readable than the existing treaties, the constitution reaffirms the dual legitimacy of a union of states and of citizens. the council of ministers will take decisions by qualified majority in a greater number of areas. the presidency of the european council will be established for a term of two and a half years. the number of members of the commission will be reduced and its coordination strengthened. on the external front, the appointment of a european foreign minister will finally allow europe to speak with one voice beyond our common borders. the tragedy of the tsunami in south-east asia illustrates once again the importance of such visibility and of increased coordination of europe's action in the world. the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner outlined the democratic progress represented by the draft european constitution. the constitution will also enable europeans from overseas to showcase their particular strengths and contribute to the emergence of a new active frontier of europe, an advanced showcase of progress in solidarity and diversity. the european citizens have everything to gain from approving the ratification of the european constitution. they will become the major actors and will enable the european union to function better with more clarity, more transparency, while establishing a balanced and stable distribution of powers at the different levels of decision-making: european, national and regional.
mr president, a constitution for europe is necessary: it is a democratic requirement. deeply committed to the unity of the party, the french socialists will lead the national debate without the slightest renunciation of our progressive values and ideas. i consider that the approval of the report is a condition for establishing parliament's authority over the constitutional treaty, but i regret the rejection of amendments tabled by some of us. nevertheless, we will participate in the long and difficult process of ratifying the constitutional treaty. we affirm that this constitutional treaty is stable but adjustable. all constitutions are, and this treaty is no less important than others. we also regret that a large majority of the opinions of other parliamentary committees which pointed out multiple shortcomings in the draft constitutional treaty have been suppressed in this report. we also want to make it clear that a special unit, set up under the dutch presidency, will continue its work under future presidencies and will study all the possible consequences of a 'no' to the constitution. i hope that parliament, legitimized in its role after this vote, will take up the difficulties of implementing the constitutional treaty and use its right of parliamentary initiative. that is our calling and that is the meaning of the 17th amendment. yes, it is up to us, the members of the european parliament, elected by the european people, to be the actors in the implementation of the constitutional treaty, which governs the 'living together' of more than 450 million europeans. the problems identified in the opinions of the other committees will sooner or later reappear. we must then be prepared to correct the imperfections inherited from the intergovernmental conference and to alter the delicate balances which the convention has wisely and fairly struck. let us prepare ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, for a new round: we will have to defend our popular legitimacy on the constitutional treaty, whose shortcomings we have the urgent duty to correct at the appropriate moment. a number of my colleagues in the french delegation will abstain on this report.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to inform parliament that the green paper on economic migration which i presented by common accord with my colleague, commissioner spidla, has been adopted today by the college. with this green paper, the commission wishes to contribute to the ongoing debate, which began with the tampere mandate, on the most appropriate approach to the admission of economic migrants and the added value of adopting such a common framework. in the context of the hague programme, the european council invited the commission to present, before the end of 2005, a proposal for a common european approach to legal immigration for economic reasons. the commission sent a proposal to the council on this subject three years ago, but no action was taken because of the reluctance of several member states to approach the problem from a community perspective. however, the changes which have taken place on the international scene, the need for europe to manage the migration phenomenon in a balanced way and its many political, social and security implications, and the signing of the constitutional treaty which clearly distinguishes between matters which fall within national competence and those which also or exclusively have a community dimension, are all factors which have prompted the council to reflect on this matter in a timely manner and have put it back on the agenda. the hague strategy sets objectives and a timetable which the commission intends to respect. it goes without saying that the preparation of a proposal in this area requires a broad, comprehensive and transparent debate, and above all the participation of the institutional and social actors in the search for evaluations, proposals and contributions. the authorities responsible for the investigations and the police forces cannot have all the information they need to draw up a picture of the local situation, of the migration flows from different parts of the world to each european country, and of the integration conditions already achieved or to be promoted for communities of non-community citizens who already reside in the union or who are moving there. the aim of the green paper is therefore to gather new and updated information by launching a public debate involving as many stakeholders as possible, including civil society, who are interested in a new european strategy on economic migration. the commission is invited to propose a strategy before the end of 2005 which we must regard as the cornerstone of a wider political project capable of preventing, combating and eradicating intolerance, violence and all forms of extremism. these are the causes of the feeling of insecurity felt by our fellow citizens and they must be combated, not just by military or police action. on the contrary, we must also take political action and start planning initiatives to manage the flow of increasing economic emigration that inevitably flows into our countries and which sometimes constitutes an undeniable benefit for the european economy. finally, the public debate which the commission is launching with its green paper will enable it to collect a mass of data and information on which it can base itself in order to draw up the proposals which the council asks it to make and which we will present within the deadlines which have been set.
mr president, as i listened to mr frattini, i was reminded of the famous words of the belgian poet henri michaux: 'never despair, but always infuse more'. i think we should commend the commission for not giving up hope and for reviving a necessary and useful debate. mr president schmit, you should stay, it is entirely your responsibility. we are indeed very anxious to see the commission's approach succeed. in this case, you failed in a previous attempt, despite the commission's initiative and despite parliament's commitment: it was the council that failed to reach an agreement. the question i ask you, mr vice-president, is: yes, i am speaking to you, what are the objective elements at your disposal which would make you think that the deadlock in the council on the previous initiative could be lifted today, which we welcome, a priori, but with, it is true, a small dose of scepticism.
commissioner, i am certainly pleased with my colleague mr bourlanges that the commission and the european parliament are continuing their joint efforts to open up legal immigration routes. i would like to ask you three questions, commissioner. the first is in line with mr bourlanges's: what are the concrete legislative measures you intend to take and what will you do to ensure that the council does not block, as you did in your first attempt in 2001? the second question concerns your proposal for sectoral legislation for legal immigration: does this approach not jeopardise the rights of migrants by creating different regimes for each? finally, my third question is: what measures will you take to link this immigration policy to a policy of european integration?
commission. honourable members, i am responding to this question on behalf of my colleague, mr mandelson, who is unable to be here today as he is currently on his way to india. the wto agreement on textile and clothing, which established a ten-year period for the elimination of the quotas, expired on 31 december 2004, and trade in textile and clothing products is henceforth subject to the general wto rules. quota removal is likely to reshape the export of textile and clothing and global outsourcing trends. there may be a substitution effect among suppliers to the advantage of the countries that are able to offer a full range of products, economies of scale, competitive prices and efficient services. the impact of abolishing quotas will indeed be considerable, though it is difficult to assess at this stage. moreover, it is likely to vary greatly depending on country conditions, the ability to achieve competitive advantages in the higher value added production segment and domestic policy responses. sustained efforts are needed to help upgrade the skill levels of workers, improve the quality of their jobs and empower social partners at all levels to address the many challenges in the sector. as far as europe is concerned, this sector definitely has assets for the future. investment, a move upmarket and world leadership in the fashion industry have made europe the world's biggest exporter of textiles and its second biggest exporter of clothing. the commission believes that this entails a three-pronged response: monitor the level of imports into the eu, help the sector strengthen its competitiveness and remain a key industry in the eu, and keep a special focus on the poorest and more vulnerable developing countries. the commission communication of 13 october 2004, entitled 'textiles and clothing after 2005', is a key element of this strategy. this communication was a response to the set of recommendations by the high level group on textiles and clothing, in which trade unions were represented. on structural funding and relocation processes, the participation of the textile and clothing sector in multisectoral programmes should provide an efficient framework for supporting the sector, allow for diversification of production and ultimately serve the economic interests of the regions in question. in addition, the commission proposes that in all future programmes, member states should reserve an amount of 1% of the structural fund’s annual contribution for the 'convergence' objective and 3% of the structural fund’s annual contribution for the 'regional competitiveness and employment' objective, to cover unforeseen local or sectoral crises linked to economic and social restructuring or to the consequences of trade opening.
madam president, allow me to express my sincere solidarity with the millions of workers whose lives will be shattered to satisfy, once again, a minority of well-to-do people. yes, the economists of the international trade union federation - if the commission does not know it, they do know it - are talking about the destruction of 30 million jobs, in europe, the maghreb, sri lanka, indonesia for a million of them. as if what some of these countries have just experienced were not enough, they need to be helped to go a little deeper. it is, i say emphatically, the responsibility and duty of the commission, the council and parliament to put an end to this social disaster.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i have just learned, once again today, that christian democrat in one country does not mean the same thing as christian democrat in another country, i congratulate you ... (interruption by mr poettering: 'it is the same for the greens!') the same applies to the greens, but at the moment i am addressing the president of the union and not the president of the european greens. that's the difference, mr. poettering! you said something very interesting. if you do indeed set up a working group with mr barroso on the lisbon process, i would be very interested in participating in it to try to get the violins tuned. we agree with you, but we disagree with mr barroso: competitiveness must go hand in hand with sustainable growth, social solidarity and environmental responsibility. mr barroso had forgotten three of the four elements, and that is why a working group between the commission and the council is needed to tune your violins. we are on your side, mr president-in-office. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. to paraphrase victor hugo, i would say that to let the weak states rule europe is to let the hurricane rule the ocean. we don't want him. we've seen that when the hurricane hits the ocean, everything collapses. if the weak states - and i say this of states and governments very close to me - win with their 1%, europe will lose. we are therefore at your side, mr president-in-office, in the fight against all these attempts to reduce the european budget. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the budget. i would like to say one more thing, which is very important, about education. referring to the debate that the oecd has had with pisa, when we talk about education, we need to have the courage to say what works and what doesn't work in the member states. we must not only talk about the need to educate, but also say that there are educational systems, educational systems, in europe, which are counterproductive, reactionary, ideological. in conclusion, i would like to say that under your presidency the dayton treaty, srebrenica will be ten years old. i therefore ask europe to take the initiative to revise the dayton treaty, which was perhaps necessary at the time but is unacceptable when we see the constitution in force in bosnia-herzegovina at the moment. that is why, on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of srebrenica, i ask you to take the initiative on behalf of europe to revise the dayton treaty.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, you have recently said, mr juncker, and you have just said it again, that for you competitiveness is not the holy grail or the alpha and omega, in particular, of the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy. you have stressed that social ambition and the ambition for sustainable development must not be contrasted with the ambition for competitiveness. my group welcomes this because we believe, on the contrary, that the defence of the european model is the factor of competitiveness for our continent. we do believe that we need a europe of excellence which relies on investment in research, innovation, training of its workers, the quality of its infrastructure, its transeuropean networks and public services, the quality of work and social relations. we therefore agree with you on this point and we have felt, at times, a slight difference in approach with the president of the commission, from whom we hoped for the same clarity, particularly on the social side. however, the will you have expressed will have to be tested. i will mention three, starting with the european budget. we agree with you that this debate must not be allowed to get bogged down, that it must be moved quickly. you propose to play the role of stimulator, intermediary and accelerator, but we would like this acceleration of the compromise on the financial perspective not to be at the expense of a budget which would meet the needs of the european union. on this point we agree with mr barroso: we need a budget which ensures cohesion and solidarity, investment in the future and in research, investment in transeuropean networks. acceleration must not be at the expense of the result. secondly, the directive on services of general interest has just been mentioned by some colleagues, in particular by mr turmes. we are extremely concerned - and i believe you are aware of this risk - by the extension of the scope of this directive, which threatens many services of general interest, and by the country of origin principle, which threatens labour law in many countries. i am thinking in particular of the application of collective agreements. the third test concerns the european social agenda more generally. in this connection, we would particularly like a clear commitment from you to the other members of the council on the revision of the directive on working time and the abolition of opt-outs and, finally, on a proposal for a revision of the directive on european works councils.
on behalf of the group. dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, debating after a disaster is always difficult, because on the one hand there is emotion and on the other hand there is the need to draw political lessons from what has happened. could you be a little quiet or go for coffee and come back when we're done discussing important things? could that be possible? there's a bar outside! you can go get drunk all you want. - thank you. - thank you. i'm sorry, mr. president. i'm not sure what i'm doing here. i would like to say that my group supports the proposal of the commission and the council to strengthen the european union's civil intervention capabilities. in fact, with this disaster we have seen that national intervention, however necessary, is incapable of responding alone to a disaster of this magnitude and that the capacity for civil intervention must include civil humanitarian intervention but also civil political intervention, that is to say intervention for the prevention of conflicts. we cannot intervene in indonesia without intervening in the conflict that is taking place in indonesia. we cannot help sri lanka without intervening in the military conflict in sri lanka. so conflict prevention and humanitarian intervention are closely linked and we support the commission on this. i propose that the money collected from this session be used for disaster relief. (applause) i would like to thank
ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the explanations of vote. - recommendation by mr manuel medina ortega (a6-0073/2004) on the common position established by the council (c6-0535/2004 -
mr president, i would like to thank you. when i voted for the corbett report, i thought that this constitution was not the end of history, but that it was not the result of chance either. i first thought of the long struggles which accompanied the european convention on human rights in 1949 and the turin social charter in 1961, supported by all the trade union forces. these are now contained in part 2 of the constitutional treaty through the charter of fundamental rights. but i thought especially of the father, the real father of the constitution, the one who is not mentioned enough, altiero spinelli, a member of the communist youth, who was put under house arrest for ten years by mussolini, and who foreshadowed today's text from the very beginning of the first term of this european parliament elected by universal suffrage. i also thought of olivier duhamel, who inspired us during the previous mandate to hold an open convention to implement this constitutional treaty, and i thought that a man of the left could today, without any feeling, lend his support to this draft constitutional treaty, which opens a promising page in the history of the union.
in writing. - i welcome the progress made by the constitutional treaty in the field of development and international solidarity, the principle of which is enshrined among the fundamental values of the union. for the first time, the treaty includes a separate chapter on cooperation with third countries and humanitarian aid. it emphasises the specific objectives of this policy, namely the eradication of poverty, the promotion of health and the fight against infectious diseases. it gives priority to the rights of the child. it has made many advances in the field of women's rights and their decisive role in development. the european union is therefore taking an important step forward by recognising in its constitutional treaty that solidarity cannot be limited to its own territory and its own citizens, but must extend beyond its borders. of course, i have some regrets, not least the lack of reference to the 'global public goods' on which i had made proposals. but i intend to continue the fight with my socialist comrades to put into practice what we have not been able to put into the treaty.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this report for several reasons. firstly, i cannot vote in favour of this resolution, since my criticisms of the constitution are far greater than the very few and weak advances it contains. beyond my serious doubts about the achievement of social and political europe, my first complaint is that a constitution organizes the powers and lists the rights and duties of citizens. the constitutional treaty defines policies and ideological choices which do not belong to a constitution; they forbid any possibility of different policies. moreover, the report was prepared with the sole aim of mentioning only the positive and "advanced" aspects of the constitution. the ban on criticism, however slight, is in contrast to the reservations which parliament expressed when it adopted its previous resolution on the intergovernmental conference. i am not sure that this resolution or this treaty will bring our fellow citizens closer to the construction of europe and to their demands for justice, equality and democracy.
in writing. the corbett report, on which the european parliament was voting today, recognises the undeniable progress of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. the treaty provides the essential tools for making europe more efficient, more readable and more democratic, by clarifying the role of the institutions, reducing the possibilities of blocking and increasing the powers of the european parliament and its representatives elected by the people. at the same time, it strengthens community solidarity and contributes to ensuring genuine cohesion in the union. social cohesion first of all, thanks to the charter of fundamental rights, which lays down rules on civil, political and social rights. the treaty also affirms europe's objectives in the direction of a social market economy, sustainable development and the fight against discrimination. secondly, territorial cohesion through a set of provisions which will help the regions of the union to pursue their own development. from the point of view of the octs, and more particularly of the french overseas departments, the treaty reaffirms the recognition of their specific features. by consolidating the mechanisms for derogating from community rules, it guarantees genuine protection for the french overseas departments against the destructive logic which would tend to regard europe as a uniform and homogeneous territory. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. it is not a report that we are voting on today, it is an act of faith and even an act of bad faith. contrary to what you say, mr president, this text creates a super-state, centralized, omnipotent, totalitarian, but without identity or soul. the european union is a centralised state, because everything is decided in brussels, in all areas, and all decisions, whether legislative or not, national or local, must be in accordance with european laws and the exclusive interests of the union. the principle of subsidiarity will continue to be flouted, as it has been for the past 12 years. the european union is becoming an omnipotent state, because it is becoming competent in absolutely all areas and all policies are or will be communitarianised. the european parliament has been a totalitarian state, because the real power is in the hands of a handful of officials: the technocrats in the commission who have a monopoly on legislative initiative and the judges in luxembourg, the controllers of the europeanist orthodoxy. the common feature is that they are appointed and are not subject to any democratic control. finally, a state without a soul or identity, which denies its christian-hellenic roots, accepts to integrate turkey despite the opposition of the people, believes only in globalisation, competition and the market. so today, as in the referendum held in my country, i am voting no.
in writing. if it were up to the greens alone, the draft constitution would be much more ambitious than the one presented to us. it would make possible the political, social and ecological europe we are advocating. it would be a project without ambiguity and without uncertainty as to the objectives, without this third part which, by merely repeating the previous treaties, is in contradiction with an ambitious overall project for europe. yet, despite its imperfections, i will vote and i call for a yes vote on this constitutional treaty. because it would be an aberration and a major political mistake to join the camp of those who say no to the constitution, on the pretext that the final text does not live up to the challenges. we need europe more than ever, even if it is imperfect. with a constitution we will succeed in launching this europe of peace, which is based on common values such as human rights and democracy. it is this major act that will make european citizens feel united in a genuine common purpose. it is a militant yes which i will defend by my vote on the corbett report. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction.
in writing. mr president, the so-called european constitution is in reality an anti-european text destroying the foundations of europe: its nations which will permanently lose their sovereignty and the values of its greco-latin and christian civilization. the refusal to mention these is not trivial, it was essential to accept the accession of muslim turkey. thus, contrary to what mr chirac claims, there is a clear causal link between the european constitution and the entry of this asian country into europe. the adoption of the constitution will not only allow its accession, but will also give this state - the most populous in the european union - the largest number of representatives in parliament and votes in the council, thus a predominant role, superior to that of france and germany. mr chirac is lying when he says that the french will be able to decide on turkey's membership in 2014. it'll be too late. the referendum on the constitution will take place in a few months, just before the opening of accession negotiations. by voting no, the french will also be voting no to turkey's entry.
in writing. this text, presented as a constitution for europe, is the product of a bad compromise in which all the governments of european social democracy have abdicated the sovereignty of the peoples in favour of a supranational entity. this constitution organises a state with the appearance of unity and the mechanisms of internal federalism. it is a hybrid organization which, by intervening on all subjects and in all fields, imposes dramatic political choices for the future of the peoples of europe. it is also the culmination of a slow political-legal stratification and the institutionalization of a new totalitarian organization. the europe that is being built is moving further away from the citizens by creating social misery. the peoples are despised and every consultation, whether it be a referendum or a parliamentary one, will endorse policies which are, in fact, already being applied. by using a vile blackmail, that of europe or chaos, to force the hand of sovereign peoples, the supporters of this constitution are flouting the basic rules of democracy. this europe is a trap which we reject and which we intend to denounce in the next french referendum. another europe is possible: that of free peoples and sovereign nations.
in writing. the feeling of living a historic moment rarely comes in a lifetime and i think that with this constitutional treaty we are participating in the writing of a landmark page of the europe we want. we are with this text in continuity with the action of the founding fathers who wanted, who dreamed, of this europe of 25 and more soon. thanks to this constitutional treaty, the humanistic, spiritual and social heritage of this europe becomes a foundation that governs our daily lives. the charter of fundamental rights acquires legal force and becomes enforceable against citizens. the simpler operating rules are more and more like those we know in our 25 democracies. the union will have a greater political role in the world, will finally be able to exert its influence and i hope will be able to impose itself even more in the concert of nations to make its ideal of peace shine, the ideal that prevailed at its birth. i voted for the corbett report and i will be taking part in the campaign in my country for the ratification of the text by referendum. the train of history is on its way, let's all ride it together.
all this will be forwarded to the competent body of our assembly. the explanations of vote are now closed.
mr president, as vice-president of the asean delegation, i would like to express my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims in south-east asia and to the families of the victims of european origin. the amount of money the european union is about to pay to the countries of south-east asia, which was agreed at the donors' conference in geneva, is welcome. however, the joint meeting of the parliamentary committees on development, foreign affairs and the budget last week in brussels gives rise to the fear that this is simply a redistribution of funds allocated to development. despite the decision to mobilise the emergency aid reserve of 100 million, we do not know at this stage what the real share of the newly raised funds and the real share of the reallocation of appropriations will be. it is clear that europe will not be able to increase aid. it must therefore concentrate its efforts on optimising them, by directing them towards the coordination of its own competences, i.e. health, medical, infrastructure rehabilitation and reconstruction. it is also important that this coordination of health measures on the ground, alongside the un agencies, be accompanied by a monitoring of aid, particularly in countries affected by conflict, and by a coordination of civil and military resources, particularly for reconstruction. in this respect, some pooling of european civil protection capabilities, open to all member states and composed of joint teams that are interoperable and can be deployed quickly, would be desirable to deal with these natural disasters, which are unfortunately becoming more frequent. in addition, apart from these direct aids and the analysis of what has just happened, we cannot spare a thorough reflection on prevention. europe could propose at the kobe conference that the global environmental fund be used for the development of civil security units or that a voluntary contribution fund be set up to finance an early warning system, such as exists in the indian ocean. in conclusion, i think that, in view of the global momentum generated by this unprecedented catastrophe, it is now necessary to consider, at the level of all the developed countries, a global rescheduling of the debt of all these countries.
mr president, after the election of mahmoud abbas and the formation in israel of a new government of so-called disengagement, there is renewed hope that the peace process may finally be able to move forward. that hope is fragile and the window of opportunity you have mentioned, mr president-in-office, is narrow. i hope that the transatlantic relationship will emerge strengthened by the strong commitment that the european union and the united states must make to ensure that this opportunity is not lost. the new palestinian president must be strongly encouraged in his firm resolve to revive the dialogue by renouncing violence. but this courageous stance will only be sustainable if he gets strong signals quickly, that is by this summer, that this attitude is not in any way a form of capitulation. we have always known that there can be no winners or losers in this long and painful confrontation. rightly or wrongly, the americans are seen in the arab world as having sided with israel. that is why the european union is so much awaited, and not only in palestine, to balance the prospects and provide its own guarantee. here more than elsewhere, and now more than ever, we expect you, mr president-in-office, to affirm and implement this necessary complementarity of influences for the benefit of peace and the indispensable strengthening of the transatlantic link.
mr president, to build a genuine partnership, it takes at least two people. so can we expect anything from george bush's second term other than the unilateral policy of the first term? the handling of the crisis in south-east asia after the tsunami is more likely to lead to a negative response. the first reaction of the bush administration was to propose the constitution of a coalition of donor countries around the united states, rather than naturally placing its intervention under the authority of the united nations. this initiative was perceived in europe as a sign of continuity with the first mandate. europe, as we say to a dear friend, must say to the united states of america: 'you are wrong, your policy is isolating you.' all the coalitions in the world will not be able to do anything about it, they will not be able to mask the deep crisis of confidence in the united states in the world public opinion. a french essayist summed up this widely shared sentiment: "the united states is becoming a problem to the world. we were used to seeing them as the solution". the united states defends its interests, its security, uncompromisingly against terrorism, and no one will blame it for that. but where the doubt arises is in the messianic and ideological motivations with which the us administration has associated the intervention in iraq. where the doubt is rooted is when the characteristic violations of human rights concern all parties to the conflict in iraq. and where doubt turns to concern is when the west's hatred infects entire populations in response to an ill-prepared military intervention that clearly underestimated the level of iraqi resistance to the democratic transition envisioned by the pentagon. yet, the american doctrine has not always been that. the choice of america in its foreign policy was to prioritize the search for consensus and a form of the general interest. it preferred agreement to coercion and inscribed its action in a multilateral framework. in this way it fulfilled its duties as the first world power and consolidated its authority. the american intervention in iraq ended it. but it is not too late to change, if the united states takes the initiative. the first step must be the normalisation of relations with the united nations. the un is the only competent authority to decide on international military intervention and we must call on the united states to get involved with europe, on the one hand, in the cause of multilateralism and respect for international law and, on the other, in the cause of reform of the un, in particular of the security council and its composition.
on behalf of the group. the european union and the international community are preparing to cancel part of the debt of iraq and, today, the debt of the countries devastated by the tsunami. i am glad of it, but these are warm reactions, which are connected with a matter of urgency. the whole problem of the debt of the south should be dealt with with the same urgency and with the same speed, because there is urgency in this appalling reality we are facing. the annual amount of debt repayment by the south far exceeds the annual amount of official development assistance and it is the south that funds the north. in 20 years, the countries of the south have already repaid six euros for every euro borrowed and are still being asked for four more. for the south to move forward, the debt must be reduced and the answers today are slow to materialize. i welcome the initiative of the united kingdom, which has announced that it will cancel its share of the debt incurred by the poorest countries with the world bank. i look forward to the oecd countries as a whole doing the same! if all these countries followed the british example, that would mean 45 million more children going to school, 140 million more people with access to clean water, provided, of course, that debt cancellations are added to existing development aid, provided that the north stops taking what it gives from the other hand. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the total cancellation of the debts of the poorest countries, relief measures for intermediate countries, the abandonment of conditionalities of the 'structural adjustment' type and, of course, as has been said, we must include this in an overall aid policy and look very quickly for new sources of financing.
madam president, i think we should be careful not to think that debt reduction or debt cancellation is an end in itself, because it is, on the contrary, one of the many means we have at our disposal to help development. this goes hand in hand with the loans for improvement, with the free funds, with, for example, the system of generalised preferences that we are implementing in europe. the reduction of debt is not an end in itself but a means, and i think we must have the decency to consider this means as an effort made by the taxpayers of our countries and therefore, naturally, it must be conditional on results. our partners, and especially our african partners, those in nepad, have also fully understood that they must make efforts, including good governance and respect for values we share, to make their countries develop themselves. in this case, let us be honest and recognize that the best students should be rewarded. if it is understood that debt reduction is an operation in itself, then the debt that follows must also be considered, because no country can, of course, continue its development without becoming indebted. we must therefore look ahead and not give ourselves a good conscience by saying: we will reduce the debt, we will cancel the debt and they will get along.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we consider the cancellation of the debts of the poorest countries to be an absolute necessity if we are to seriously tackle north-south inequalities and underdevelopment as well as underdevelopment. it must, however, go hand in hand with a greater fight against corruption, tax havens and global financial crime. nor can it absolve all those, including those at the top of the state, who have enriched themselves in a scandalous way, in defiance of their people and a minimum of sound budgetary management. the debt cancellation would also be a first step towards a thoroughgoing reform of our development aid policy. a new north-south cooperation policy should be based on much more ambitious objectives, particularly in the fields of energy, water, health, education and the affirmation, or clarification, of the notion of a global public good. we urgently need a very strong commitment from the union in this respect, with clear objectives and much more resources. a plan that would be the same size as the post-war marshall plan, but with a name and a framework that were decidedly european.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, you have answered my question. now, what do we do about our ukrainian friends who have turned to europe? it is true that for a month, in the streets and in freezing cold, the ukrainian people chose their side to build their future: the side of democracy, non-violence and europe. i believe that mr yutchenko's victory is the victory of our european values. i was one of the 1200 osce observers who monitored the 26 december elections, not in kiev but in bolgrade, in the odessa region near the border with romania and moldova, where some villages speak neither russian nor ukrainian. thanks to the new law that has been put in place, the second round of the presidential elections has been prepared in a remarkable way. we have seen that the voting has gone well at the polling stations. we were able to follow the ballots until they were finally registered with the regional committees. this fierce desire of ukraine to join the democratic camp is a major challenge to our policies, commissioner. i have to say that i am very pleased with the work done by the commission and the council in this area. i can tell you what they're proposing. the first of the two objectives that stand out very clearly, mr commissioner, is integration into the european union. working groups are already studying the matter. the second is decentralization, which must prevent a split in this country. nor should we forget the great trauma of chernobyl. so, commissioner, i am surprised at your intervention which closes that prospect to ukraine. but with its orange revolution, the ukrainian people have asked us and they ask us about our ability to respond to the aspirations we have raised. just recently, we have massively affirmed, with more than 70% of the votes cast, the first article of the constitution: the union is open to all european states which respect its values and which undertake to promote them jointly. today, commissioner, we must reflect on the relevance of the new neighbourhood policy for countries such as ukraine, if there are no prospects of accession. i think we're making a mistake, giving them this message. so, commissioner, we believe that ukraine has its place as a member of the union. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, fourteen years after gaining independence, ukraine has become a democracy. we owe this victory of democracy first and foremost to the ukrainian people themselves. day after day, night after night, hundreds of thousands of ukrainians gathered and mobilized simply to demand the right to vote freely. it was their courage and determination that allowed ukraine to achieve democracy. we also owe this victory to the institutions of ukraine. i am thinking in particular of parliament and the supreme court, which have acted in accordance with the law and with a great sense of responsibility, despite the many pressures that have been put on them. this is also a victory for europe. for once, europe has said no to rigged elections and massive fraud. and when we were in kiev at the beginning of december, we were proud to be meps. for once europe has been able to speak with one voice and when europe decides to weigh in, it exists, it can change the course of things. today, the challenges and expectations are immense: expectations of reform, expectations of democracy. europe has been able to rise to the occasion of a tremendous and considerable historical event. the people of ukraine must continue to be able to count on us today and tomorrow, and this is our responsibility. we must not, we cannot disappoint him.
the debate on ukraine is closed. i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 of the rules of procedure at the end of this debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the oral question to the commission (o­0082/2004 - b6-0137/2004) by stephen hughes, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the dismissal of language teachers in the commission.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, we do not think that this case is acceptable in substance or form. we have heard the commission's reply: it is the usual response of employers to dismissed employees, that is to say that all formalities have been complied with. well, no, there is a real labour conflict here. these language teachers have worked for the commission for decades, they have trained different language commissioners from different countries, and they are thrown away like dirt! this is not acceptable. i cannot believe for one second that the commission could be compared with what are called, in the wrong terms, the bosses in france. that's not possible. there is a labour dispute here, so we must renegotiate, renegotiate. i am sure there are some mandatory issues of gradual outsourcing; but it was only a few years before the gradual outsourcing of work meant that language teachers were being dismissed from the commission. most of them had to wait five, six, ten years. so in a conflict like this, you have to talk. i think that if the commission wants to be heard on the social aspect, which is the subject of the european parliament and europe, then we must have a debate, and the commission must, especially today, be totally exemplary in this respect.
the debate is closed.
mr president, beyond the shock we all felt at the immense misery caused by the catastrophic tsunami in the indian ocean at the end of last year, i would also like to express our unease at the development of a diplomacy of compassion which was not naturally devoid of national motives. i am therefore pleased that in the resolution adopted by the european parliament we envisaged the creation of a european civil security corps which is intended to be another form of aid, free of national motives and above all of the over-selling of urgency and charity which we have seen. in this respect, i would like us to make a little more of an effort in advance through the enhanced cooperation mechanism which was set up on 23 october 2001, by creating a genuine european civil security staff capable of training experts and projecting them outside under the union's colours so that the european union can show its commitment in the physical sense in times of repair and emergency. i also hope that we will take this into account in the financial perspective, since the solidarity fund is notoriously not flexible enough to mobilise the aid needed to transport the funds, but also to deal with the emergency aid which requires a fully mobile and available cash reserve. i was already saying that in 1999. i welcome the efforts made by the commission and the council and i hope that europe will soon have blue helmets of emergency, the blue of the european flag.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. in the face of this tragedy, we think first of all of the pain and sorrow of the families of the victims. the european union has once again lost the opportunity to show its reactive capacity: we would have liked to see the voice of europe being heard more, alongside commissioner michel, presidents barroso and borell, and high representative solana. the mobilization of the peoples of europe has been exemplary. today, our responsibility is primarily to respond to emergencies (clean water, food, etc.) and to prevent epidemics. but above all, when the television cameras are no longer there, the european union will have to respond in the long term to the demands of the affected populations to: rebuild with respect for nature. we see that we have no interest in building along the coastline, developing and coordinating effective prevention and warning systems, and fighting pedophilia. the european union has a moral obligation to help these countries protect their children, and in particular the orphans of the disaster, from the networks of paedophilia, which is unfortunately perpetrated by a category of tourists from rich countries that we condemn.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, the european union has been slow to recognise the failure of the lisbon strategy in the light of the objectives set for the year 2000. i have had the opportunity to quote here from a report by the commission last january. he pointed out that in the course of the march towards full employment, more jobs had been destroyed than created in the past year for the first time in ten years. as for the construction of a knowledge-based economy, the same report noted that it was in fact reflected in an "overall decline" in public and private investment in the key areas for the future of training, education and research. the report also revealed that more than one in six young europeans, at the age of 15, did not have, i quote, 'the minimum skills required: reading, writing, arithmetic'. it was a harsh but clear-sighted observation. the remedies that have been announced since then, namely to go faster and further along the liberal path, appear to us to be profoundly wrong and extremely dangerous. the key word here is competitiveness. but what conception of competitiveness is this? the one at work in the union is based on falling wage costs, flexible labour markets, longer working hours. it creates wage, social and fiscal competition between the 25 countries themselves. it considers the democratic achievements of the labour code as obstacles. it encourages the reduction of public expenditure and the strict and restrictive regulation of services of general economic interest. the health and environmental requirements themselves are at risk - this has just been said - of being revised downwards in the name of competitiveness, as is the case in the reach programme. the cultural exception to the competition rules is on the table for the same reason. this is probably what mr barroso had in mind when he referred to the friendly business environment in the report which was given to us. i am convinced that this liberal orientation, this race to say the least, runs counter to the official objectives of the lisbon agenda. it counters them, firstly, because fiscal and wage austerity contribute to the stagnation of consumption - the essential engine of growth - and play against employment. secondly, because this restrictive policy is weighing in favour of the necessary increases in expenditure for men and women, starting with training, this increasingly crucial need. finally, because this obsession with the market, with the financialization of the economy, with competition for everything, breaks an essential, if not decisive, principle of the proper functioning of the economy and of society, namely the motivation of people, their creativity, their confidence in the future. mr barroso, you yourself have said in your communication that a significant part of european public opinion is not convinced that europe is on the right track. i think it is a litte. so what do you do? among the immediate measures, we believe that public deficits should be excluded from the evaluation of expenditure on research, education, health, even expenditure on certain infrastructures, as well as expenditure on employment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. in addition, as parliament has expressly requested, we believe it necessary to have a serious assessment of the effects of liberalizations, such as rail, before any new steps are taken, and we of course reiterate our request for the bolkestein directive to be withdrawn. i would point out, mr president, that for the first time this draft directive is no longer mentioned in a commission text, except in my own case. i would like to believe that this is equivalent to your accepting the request for withdrawal, but given what is at stake, a confirmation of this change from the president of the commission himself would be welcome. finally, we believe that structural changes are needed to move towards a common control of the markets and, therefore, towards a return to the primacy of political choice. i am thinking, for example, of choices that emphasize job security or training, which is available to all and which prepares for employment. the means must also be provided, and this raises the question of the tasks and the status of the european central bank. mr president, mr barroso has just stressed the need to be aware of the concerns of the citizens, and i think that many of the concerns i have mentioned are shared far beyond the circles closest to my group. the commission would therefore be well advised not to ignore them.
mr president, first of all i would like to say to the president of the council how much we appreciate his presence, because it must be admitted that in the past the presidency of the council has been a rare presence at such important debates. i would like to say to you, mr president of the commission, that i find it particularly important and interesting that parliament should be involved in the discussion of the multiannual programme and, above all, in its adoption. this is new and important: the multiannual programme will be the subject of an agreement between the commission, the council and the european parliament. we will also have to discuss the commission's legislative and work programme. we would like to be able to discuss this in detail, but that is impossible because we have not had time to study the proposals made by the commission in depth. i would like, however, that we politicians should be able to participate fully in these discussions and, above all, in decision-making. i would like to see the commission's proposals for the future of the community, which are not only a matter of the future of the community, but also a matter of the future of the community. we do not want that. what we are asking is that we politicians decide, since we are becoming co-decision-makers of this programme. to do this, the european parliament must be able to work with you under the best possible conditions. in substance, 2005 is a decisive year for our institutions: i am talking about the constitution and its ratification. all our efforts must be directed towards competitiveness and hence employment, because poverty is unacceptable in europe. let us stop talking endlessly and often, unfortunately, in vain, and let us do something concrete for the lisbon strategy. in that connection, with your permission, i would like to stress one point. i am afraid that some people still oppose competitiveness and the environment. it means that we have not understood anything about sustainable development when we have experienced, on 26 december last, the horror in asia, when scientists continue to sound the alarm bells about the rapid evolution of climate change and its consequences. it is important to understand that taking the environment into account is a competitive advantage: this is how new innovative technologies will develop and promise new jobs. competitiveness, the environment and solidarity are the new european pillars. so we are looking carefully at both the reach directive and the services directive, thinking that job creation should not kill jobs, because our priority is the health of our companies as well as human health: everything is linked. your programme is ambitious, mr president of the commission, and we support you and will support you on the financial perspective, because it is important that europe's budget should be able to finance the priorities and policies that we wish to put in place together.
mr president, mr barroso, six months after your appointment by the european council, you are in a very privileged position. you have a five-year mandate and a magnificent challenge: to implement the lisbon strategy with real tools. this is a privileged situation, but it is also paradoxical, since, as you said at lunchtime during a press conference, when you were prime minister you did not like the lisbon strategy very much. we had seen that during the hearings. but now your new responsibilities demand that this programme be yours. it is the best instrument you have to get the union back on track and to enable it to face the challenges of tomorrow. in essence, today's session is almost a test run to prepare what you will tell us next wednesday, the main thing being to make the lisbon strategy the project of the european union for the coming years. if you want to succeed in this perspective, you will have to base this strategy on the following three pillars: financial perspectives in the service of the implementation of the strategy; a stability pact that allows the union to achieve growth and competitiveness while respecting sustainable development and employment; the european union's policies are consistent with this strategy. the key to maintaining a good balance is not to underestimate the social question. the social question cannot be left on the sidelines, on the contrary, it is at the heart of the elements of the competitiveness of the european social model, of europe's strength, including in world competitiveness. we expect this of you and it is on the basis of a programming of your activity in this sense, of your legislative programme, that we will judge you, text by text, in a european spirit, that is to say with the will to advance in the service of the welfare of our fellow citizens.
mr president, i would like to ask mr barroso a question. we have discussed the strategic guidelines this afternoon. i think, mr president of the commission, that we can really agree with what you have proposed, but there is a problem. we have not been able to speak about the 2005 legislative programme because this parliament is not yet aware of it. some of my colleagues and i were able to get the text of it in the early afternoon, but many others were not. it is absolutely essential that members can work in each parliamentary committee on the basis of your proposal and that we can have another debate at a future session, here in brussels or in strasbourg, on the legislative programme for 2005. that is the request i wanted to make on behalf of the epp group. this is important. i would remind you that there was an agreement between the former commission and parliament that the legislative programme should be provided to members at least ten working days before the plenary debate, so that they would be aware of it. this is annex 14 to the rules of procedure of this parliament. mr president, i am sure you will agree that we should have a new debate on the legislative programme for 2005.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr high representative, i would like to thank you for the quality of your introductory remarks, but also for all the congratulations you have kindly addressed to me. i was proud to do this work and one of the things i can say about it is that we were received very well on both sides. europe was welcome, even for israel, i should like to make that clear. if i stay late, i'll miss my train tonight; so i'll be brief and you'll forgive my rudeness because i won't have time to listen to your answers. all i can do to help in the somewhat ridiculous time of our debates is to stress the essential points which must continue to be the object of your attention. firstly, the upcoming elections in palestine will be much less easy than the last: there was indeed only one candidate, no real challenge to power and no hamas candidate. this time it will be different for both the municipal and legislative elections; the competition will be tough. i would like to see the palestinians convinced to abandon the use of the civil identity register and to see that the municipal elections, which come before the parliamentary elections, are as closely monitored as these elections, which is important. a window of opportunity, a ray of hope, some have said, i believe. the main element of this glimmer of hope is the unquestionable quality and density of the democratic will of the palestinian people; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. he is right, it is a choice for peace as well as a choice for democracy. it's less safe on the other side. we should welcome mr sharon's decision to evacuate gaza, but i would point out that from our point of view, from the point of view of the road map, there is no link in prime minister sharon's speech between gaza and the rest, and there is no guarantee that after gaza he is thinking of the west bank and jerusalem. it's a completely central point. my second point concerns the eradication of terrorism. there's a lot we can do. mr sharon is right to demand it, mr abbas is right to take it up and he is doing so with courage. it is sociologically under foreign occupation, so it is impossible to eradicate terrorism completely. i think mr sharon, who is generally experienced, knows what he's talking about; he knows that by demanding that all terrorism cease before any negotiations can resume, he is asking for the impossible to make sure he does not get it. perhaps we should tell him that terrorism will be eradicated from palestine when the entire palestinian people can hope for a different life. this requires the economy, open borders, trade, activity, creativity and a political perspective. these are the conditions, and i believe it is our duty, the duty of the international community, to remind him of them. i would also like to point out that nothing has so far been done to refute the tragic analysis of a leading israeli academic who, in a book which the high representative is familiar with, having borrowed it from me, makes the analysis that mr sharon respects palestinian men, would not want them to starve, but is working to demolish all collective identity and, deep down, to reject the state. this analysis must be thorough in our speeches and our work to put pressure on him. my last message will be to say that i believe that neither in israel nor in palestine will any political authority have the legitimacy to convince of the need to sacrifice certain symbols for peace, whether it be jerusalem or the return, as long as the religious authorities themselves do not preach peace and the sharing of symbols to make them consensual. we are not going to be able to do anything without this.
mr president, the most infamous of hitler's concentration camps, auschwitz, was officially opened on 14 june 1940. it was then intended for polish political prisoners whom the nazis wished to treat with particular harshness. the camp is headed by a former common law criminal who, in 1946, boasted of having exterminated three million people. he will be gassing up to 6,000 victims a day from 1942, mostly jews from all over europe. as soon as we arrive, we sort and weed out those too weak to work. the others are used up to the point of exhaustion. during the summer of 1944, the nazis resorted to mass shooting to kill more jews. russian prisoners of war were also exterminated at auschwitz, roma, homosexuals, the disabled, anti-fascist resistance fighters. auschwitz will again provide subjects for experiments on living beings. an extension of the camp at birkenau was specially allocated for the extermination of the jews. the crematoria burned more than 20,000 corpses a day. here the majority of the jews brought from western europe and the balkans were killed. this would wipe out most of the jews of eastern europe, including nearly three million polish jews. with them was destroyed a world of traditions and culture that had now vanished. in any case, this genocide is fundamentally linked to anti-semitism and, more broadly, to nazi racism. hitler's worldview in particular was of paramount importance based as it was on the obsession with racial purity. hitler's racism was genocidal from the start. besides the jews, other peoples, such as the gypsies and the slavs, were exposed to the deadly effects of this racism. hitler said they all deserved to die. it was in february 1940 that the deadly gas zyclon b was tested on 250 roma children, and then began the massive agony, hunger, cold, exhausting work, diseases, brutality, pseudo-medical experiments; the last 4,000 gypsies were gassed and burned on august 1, 1944 to make way for new deportees. will there ever be an end to anti-semitism, racism and xenophobia? they will probably disappear only when all the human families, faithful to their cultures and traditions, come together in a universal community. the jews have suffered and are still suffering, the minorities are often oppressed and suffer far too much. so fighting anti-semitism, fighting racism, is not fighting for the jews, it's not fighting for minorities, it's fighting for humanity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, throughout europe, a mourning anniversary will be celebrated: the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the auschwitz-birkenau extermination camp, a symbol of all the camps built by the nazis with the sole purpose of carrying out the planned extermination of the 11 million jews then living in europe. more than half of it was burned to the ground. while their ashes have not yet been collected, some have tried to deny or relativise the absolute barbarism. unfortunately, two of them are members of our assembly. ladies and gentlemen, it is the honour of this parliament, through this resolution against anti-semitism - which i hope will be voted unanimously - to contribute to the fight against this scourge and also against all forms of xenophobia, racism and discrimination. it is the honour of this parliament to fight against the falsifiers of history. it is the honour of this parliament to pursue the policy of peace and unity which animates us all, and to recommend that we never relent in our efforts to teach, to tolerate and to teach without fail in this dark period of european and world history. we must ask ourselves how we can keep this memory alive in history when the surviving witnesses are no longer here, precisely at a time when violent anti-semitism is resurging and intolerance is rising all over europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. our assembly is building a better future for future generations with more freedom, more democracy, more tolerance, more respect for others. today, we help to never forget what human folly has been able to do. my dear colleagues, our support for this resolution will send a clear signal to our peoples, to our children, to future generations, to all those who are fighting for peace and human brotherhood.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in yiddish we say 'remember and do not forget'. it is vital that our fellow citizens understand that the holocaust has a specific character and that we must be vigilant in the face of the resurgence of anti-semitism. i am a little surprised to see only the word racism on the notice board, when the title of mr schulz's oral question is 'anti-semitism and racism'. i'm surprised the title isn't complete. the living memory of generations of survivors is about to die. to pass on this message, the institutions must transmit to the younger generations the memory of this genocide. i would like to make a concrete proposal. i suggest that the european union require all schools to affix memorial plaques on the facades bearing the names of former pupils who were deported and did not return. a memorial service for these children could be held on 27 january each year. i also propose that signs denouncing collaboration be placed in front of police stations, courthouses or prefectures which have ordered the deportation and which have cowardly allowed the barbaric anti-semitic act to take place. if we let the horrors of the past fall into oblivion, then future generations will not understand the need to fight against the challenge to universal values of tolerance and freedom.
mr schapira, the sitting service informs us that if the painting only mentions racism as its title, it is only for technical reasons. the title of our debate is "anti-semitism and racism".
president of the council. mr president, i do not think there is much to add after a debate like this, which is often moving, serene and frank from a historical point of view. i would just like to say a word about the measures to be taken. i believe that we must now learn the right lessons from this terrible experience, from this absolute horror. we have been asked, as the presidency, together with the commission, to resume work on the proposal for a framework decision on racism and xenophobia. i think we have to do it and i think there are a lot of misunderstandings. we sometimes invoke, with a certain good faith but also with a good deal of naivety, freedom of speech, freedom of thought. but that's not what this is about. i believe that the verbal hatred and racism that anti-semitism conveys has nothing to do with freedom of speech, since we know, and history teaches us, that verbal hatred is often followed by physical hatred, the one that strikes, the one that hurts directly. i think we must be consistent with ourselves and get back to work. we also need to see how we can ban symbols that are unworthy symbols, that are symbols that also incite this hatred, this violence, since verbal violence becomes physical violence and aggression. it is an action we must take now and i believe it is a humble tribute to the memory of all those who have left us in the most terrible way. i believe that if this parliament can get involved in this, with us, with the presidency, with the member states, our contribution can be significant.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, i believe that this evening parliament, the council and the commission have given an important testimony to what our relationship with the memory of the holocaust can and must be. it's fair to say that memory can make our values stronger. as has been said, these are the values which inspired the founding fathers of our europe and which we have a duty to preserve and strengthen. mr schulz has mentioned - and i share his view - how the founding fathers, adenauer for the german people, but allow me to mention de gasperi for the italians, represented the new beginning after the tragedy of the dictatorship and allowed us - i say this as an italian - to walk tall in the new europe. and that's the great debt we owe to the founding fathers. it has been said that memory is a debt owed to the young. europe has a duty today to honour this debt through education, schooling and training and, in some way, through a commitment to remember history while also looking to the future. i personally welcome the proposal by those honourable members that it would be nice to have a european holocaust remembrance day, to be celebrated at the same time by all of us together. the commission - as minister schmit has pointed out - is working, in close cooperation with the council, on the review of the framework decision against racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism. i fully agree with the council's assessment in this respect. the commission will soon promote the establishment of a european agency for the protection of fundamental rights. in this connection, i would like to reassure some of the honourable members who have spoken that this agency will not only not abandon protection and safeguarding against anti-semitism and racism, but will actually strengthen them. respect for these principles and values will therefore remain at the heart of the agency's action, which the commission will promote in the very near future, with the agreement of the council. mr president, today in europe the ghosts - if i may call them that - of hatred and intolerance, of violence and racism seem to be reborn. i believe that our europe must be an important player in the eradication of these negative values, especially among young people, and in the promotion of tolerance and dialogue with different cultures and religions, in the name of a principle already enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights, which we have written into the european constitution. i think this is the best way to honor the victims of that tragedy.
ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, i will conclude this debate on a personal note. i remember that 30 years ago today, as a high school student, i saw a film called "nacht und nebel", "night and fog", which contributed greatly to my political commitment. i did not think i would have the emotion, 30 years later, to chair this debate. i think i can really, on behalf of all my colleagues, thank the commission, the council and all those who have taken part in this very high-quality debate. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0002/2005) by mr paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing a multiannual community programme to make european digital content more accessible, usable and exploitable [10458/4/2004 - c6-0140/2004 - 2004/0025 (cod)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
mr president, we have agreed with various groups to find a compromise acceptable to the majority. the compromise consists of two parts: the first part of our amendment would become an addition, while the second part would be voted on separately. the text we are putting to the vote would therefore be as follows: 'strongly encourages president abbas to show his willingness to put an end to the violence and welcomes the measures taken by president abbas in this regard'; the rest remains unchanged. the second part of the amendment, namely the phrase 'calls on the israeli authorities to accept and implement the road map and the un security council resolutions', would be put to a separate vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr schulz is right; all the words and all the consequences are of great significance. the amendment tabled by mr schulz has nothing to do with the amendment tabled by the uen group and is to be considered in its entirety separately from it, because the uen amendment contains intolerable things which we are not prepared to accept and cannot accept. that is why we ask that there be no confusion. that's the first thing. the second is that we take account of the fact that the two major groups are right to want their broad consensus on this issue. that's why we can join this. we must not forget that the european parliament has been the first to adopt a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. we have to sign this.
in writing. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and i am sure that the european parliament will be able to support the resolution. but for such a moment of truth, it needed clarity and divinity. the clarity without logorrhea on three pages of resolution; without the mediocrity of christendom's contemptuous reference to "other denominations"; the european parliament has been asked to vote on the oral amendments in which the word 'nazi' was proposed, as if to reduce the holocaust to a handful of bastards, thus removing the guilt of the tide of descendants of the goths, visigoths and other ostrogoths who, under the name of germans, imposed the horrors of their thoughts and vices. the divinity, the breath and the spirit, because here, as in the european constitution, reference should have been made to god. not as a belief, but as a higher law beyond the reach of man, who is clearly shown to have two brains: the reptilian making an austrian hitler and the divine making another austrian mozart.
mr president, i would have liked to take advantage of the presence of commissioner barroso, who will be joining us later, to ask him about the recent statements to the press by the commissioner responsible for regional policy. mrs hübner said that she believed that relocations within europe should be facilitated so that european companies could reduce their costs. as we are in the midst of discussing the political priorities of the union for 2005, can mr barroso tell us whether he supports this approach? it is well known that the highest unemployment rates in the european union are in the new member states, according to the latest eurostat figures. so we can certainly understand the strategy proposed by mrs hübner. the commission's proposals are based on the principle of subsidiarity. what the commissioner is suggesting is that we strip peter to dress paul. is mr barroso thus in favour of institutionalising social and fiscal dumping within the union?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention and, above all, ask for the support of the european parliament for mrs aissata bint-karamoko. mrs karamoko applied for refugee status in france three years ago. she is seven months pregnant and sick: she has hepatitis and is currently hospitalized right here in strasbourg. the french government is behaving in an unacceptable way by attempting to send mrs karamoko back to her home country, mauritania, in violation of the fundamental right to seek medical treatment within the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of respect for human rights and in accordance with our charter of fundamental rights, i would like to make it clear to the french government that it must respect human rights and fundamental rights and allow mrs karamoko to receive medical treatment here in france and, above all, to give birth in the best possible conditions.
president of the commission. mr president, distinguished members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, before i address you all on the european commission's legislative and work programme for 2005, i would like to convey briefly my satisfaction with the results of the referendum on the european constitution held in spain yesterday, and i will try to do so in spanish. the spanish people have said a clear and resounding yes to the european constitution. (applause) i would like to thank i would like to express to you the european commission's satisfaction with this result. spain has said yes to a europe united in its diversity. i would like to thank all those who have participated in the referendum process with their commitment, in particular all the members of this parliament who have contributed their voice and opinion to this important result. in this connection, i called yesterday the president of the spanish government, josé luis rodríguez zapatero, to congratulate him and to express my gratitude for the great commitment shown by his government in the conduct of the electoral campaign. this clear and unambiguous 'yes' opens the way for the rest of the european citizens who will also be called upon to express their views on the european constitution in the coming months. this was a very important step in the process of ratifying the european constitution, which the commission considers to be a unique instrument which will enable all europeans to consolidate our ideas of peace, prosperity, solidarity and security in europe. mr president, one month ago i presented the commission's proposed strategic objectives, designed to guide european action until the end of the decade. this is a political roadmap based on three pillars: prosperity, solidarity and security. being mutually reinforcing, they address the concrete and challenging concerns of european citizens. i also presented the first delivery of the strategic objectives: the legislative work programme for this year. let me remind you of some of its most important elements. first of all, the programme is more focused in political terms. the proposed initiatives are structured around the three strategic objectives and their external dimension, and represent the first concrete translation of the balanced approach pursued by the commission. this applies to new initiatives as well as areas where we propose to reinforce an existing action. second, the commission is fully committed to delivering its work programme. to this end, the commission intends to adopt a list of just over 100 priority initiatives by the end of the year. finally, we do not only want to deliver on time we also want to deliver in a better way. we want to be serious about the principles of better regulation. this means ensuring quality of legislation; respect for the principles of proportionality, subsidiarity and added value; and widespread use of impact assessments. in addition to this work programme, i announced that the commission will regularly inform parliament about its planning agenda for legislative proposals in preparation. i am happy to be able to say that this information channel is now operational. in the meantime, the commission has gone further in implementing its proposals. on 2 february, i presented to you our proposals for a mid-term review of the lisbon strategy. by focusing on growth and jobs, it aims to create the conditions for proper living standards, social justice for all and environmental sustainability. on 6 january and 2 february we had an initial exchange of views. i was pleased to hear that, broadly speaking, the commission's proposals met many of the expectations and concerns of members of this house. i welcome the detailed motions for resolutions tabled today by the political groups on the work programme. when we talk about partnership, dialogue and consultation, we know that we will not always agree on everything. as in any partnership, the important thing is to have positions on the table clearly spelt out, and to work together to achieve common objectives. i would like to comment briefly on some of the important issues raised in the comments and motions for resolutions. first, actions count more than words. the european union has a responsibility to turn its aspirations into reality. it must promote prosperity, cohesion and social justice, both at home and beyond our borders. the commission is fully committed to this task. we have already started to work towards this goal by implementing our work programme for 2005: we are on track. second, competitiveness and social cohesion need to go hand in hand. we all know that striking a balance is difficult. i want the commission to be helpful in this regard. this requires listening carefully to your opinions and contributions. take the reach initiative, for example. let me assure you that we have taken due note of the concerns expressed. we all agree on the need to protect the safety of individuals and the environment properly. on the other hand, we should also address the fear that certain elements of the proposal would put a key european industry in serious difficulty without adding real value in the fields of health and the environment. throughout the legislative process, we will continue to look at further possibilities to refine and improve the balance between regulation and competitiveness. with regard to the draft services directive, here too we are pursuing an aim which commands general support the completion of the single market for services by 2010. again i can assure you that we have taken due note of the concerns expressed. i am fully convinced that, via the legislative process, we will be able to settle upon an instrument which will tap the single market's hidden potential without jeopardising legitimate public interest objectives. let us do this on an informed basis and dispel the myths. our proposals do not call into question the responsibility of member states when it comes to organising and financing key public services as required by their societal needs, nor do they undermine the rules on the posting of workers as laid down in the directive. finally, i shall mention the stability and growth pact. the commission is committed to helping improve the pact and ensuring it fully complies with the treaty. the improvements proposed by the commission aim to increase its economic rationale and refine its implementation. we want better incentives to foster 'good policies' in 'good times'. we want a better definition of the medium-term objectives of fiscal policy by taking into account elements such as the debt level and the up-front costs of structural reforms. we want to avoid undesirable fiscal restraint in a downturn, because, ultimately, we want our budgets to be in a position to enhance prosperity by focusing expenditure on growth-oriented sectors and by investing for the future. these are not academic issues this is about quality of life, people's opportunities to earn a living and reap the benefits of their savings and pensions. this is about the chances of current and future generations to lead as full a life as they can legitimately expect to. as part of this balanced approach, the commission has made progress through its recently adopted proposal on the revised social agenda for the period up to 2010. this shows the commission's full commitment to modernising and developing european social systems, tackling social exclusion and poverty, and achieving the target of more and better jobs. when liberalizing markets, individuals must not be forgotten. that is why last week we adopted two new proposals to strengthen passengers' rights. this brings me to a key issue: the european union needs to be given sufficient financial means to act. cohesion policy is and must remain central to the purpose of the union. without solidarity, we can never be united. it is an essential complement to competitiveness and the lisbon strategy raising prosperity levels in the less-developed regions of the union benefits the union as a whole. we should also bear in mind that there are now 25 member states. the new member states are waiting for tangible proof of our solidarity. this is why our proposals for a new generation of cohesion policies for the next financial perspective are of critical importance for the union, both economically and politically. we cannot afford to see our obligations in this area watered down. in addition, the commission is currently preparing its third package of proposals for the next financial perspective, which are based on a careful examination of their european added value with regard to providing citizens with opportunities that complement national approaches or fill existing gaps. this set of instruments will include proposals on the seventh framework programme for research and development; consumer protection and public health; energy including renewable energy sources; competitiveness and innovation in respect of freedom, security and justice. the commission is doing its work, but making these proposals a reality will very much depend on the terms of the agreement on the financial perspectives expected by june. as i said before, i do not see how the commission can contribute to a europe which aims to do more, but with less resources. ladies and gentlemen, sustainable development and the question of climate change are both firmly on the commission's agenda. if we are happy with the entry into force of the kyoto protocol, we would nevertheless like to remain there. on 9 february, we adopted a communication on sustainable development and another entitled 'beating climate change'. these proposals complete those relating to the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy. the economic pillar, the sustainable development strategy and the new social agenda are two other complementary pillars of our strategy for the next five years. naturally, we must also look beyond our frontiers. this year will allow us to take stock of the progress made towards the achievement of the millennium development goals. the situation is clearly disappointing. the european union can and must make a more important contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals. the next month, we will publish our contribution to the review exercise in progress. we must inject more dynamism and imagination into the implementation of our commitments in monterrey. in doing so, our central priority will be africa and we intend to propose new initiatives specific to africa. multilateralism and a strengthened neighbourhood policy are also priorities for the commission. a renewed contribution to the middle east peace process and a revival of transatlantic relations are also central objectives. when we meet president bush tomorrow, we will share with him our wish for effective multilateralism and our commitment to work for peace and humanitarian aid wherever it is needed. we all share the conviction that it is our action for the benefit of the citizens of europe which constitutes the source of legitimacy of our daily task. strengthening citizen involvement is a priority duty of the commission, and to do this we will propose a specific programme in the framework of the financial perspective. by providing citizens with simple and transparent information on european issues, they will be better able to understand them and to make their views known. all the commissioners have committed themselves to work in this area and, in the first place, vice-president wallström, because it is her particular responsibility. in conclusion, let me remind you of the way in which the commission, which i have the honour of chairing, envisages the achievement of these common challenges and concerns. for us, the method will be partnership, particularly between the european institutions. i would like to repeat here what i have already said many times in this parliament: i intend to develop a positive complicity between the commission and the european parliament. i am glad to have been able to note during the debate on 26 january that president juncker and a number of you agree on the importance of working together on the strategic objectives proposed by the commission. this would represent an unprecedented step towards the coherence of the union's action. finally, in the spirit of the proposed partnership, the commission is willing to work very closely with parliament. vice-president wallström will be present tomorrow at the conference of committee chairmen as part of a dialogue which the commission wants to be permanent and regular on the issues which are priorities for us, both from the point of view of programming and from that of setting political priorities. in short, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the work programme for 2005 will be the first realization of the partnership for european renewal that i am proposing. i am pleased to hear your comments and suggestions on its contents.
on behalf of the group. mr president, we are very pleased that president barroso has been able to join us and that we can discuss with him this 2005 programme which was delayed, but we know the reasons for this. we know, mr barroso, that you will do everything to make it more efficient. your programme is ambitious and we have confidence in you, a confidence we want to renew in you, because you have been able to listen, to listen to us: you have taken the initiative to revise the services directive to take account of our concerns. the same applies to reach, as you have just explained. so we will have to focus on the main issues: growth and employment. less and better legislation will be our focus. i know we're in agreement with you on this. you've been talking about stocks. the level of productivity in europe is rising at half the rate of the usa, where average investment growth is 5.4% per annum, compared with 1.7% for european investment. what our fellow citizens are looking for are very concrete changes which can be summed up in simple terms: no more fear of relocation, no more fear of unemployment and more purchasing power. we therefore look forward to your framework programme for competitiveness and innovation, with specific objectives and timetables. to develop growth and employment means to rely on innovation and research, and above all to reconcile environmental policy and industrial policy. these two policies are not contradictory, but complementary. environmental considerations are not constraints or obstacles. they are assets, a chance for our economy. europe must therefore play the role of eco-innovation and advanced technologies in order to meet a demand for high value-added products that our competitors cannot meet. the european union is promoting innovation and increasing the competitiveness of its industry through high environmental standards. i am thinking of the development of renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar energy, biofuels and clean transport, all of which offer our industries a real opportunity in terms of jobs and exports. we note with interest, mr president of the commission, your proposals in this area, in particular the regulation on measures to be taken against air pollution. sustainable economic development, a return to growth, depends first and foremost on the health of our companies, but also on the health of the men and women who are the actors in our economy. we appreciate the part of your programme which deals with health and consumer policy. europe must also anticipate the possible threat of major epidemics, combat new forms of epidemics and antibiotic resistance. we therefore look forward with great interest to the proposal for a directive to introduce community measures to combat avian influenza. we'll have to do it quickly and well. as regards demographic trends in europe, the green paper must be followed up rapidly by concrete measures: lifelong learning, sustainability of our health systems, research into neurodegenerative diseases. as regards solidarity policy, it is right that new entrants benefit from these programmes, but do not forget that the funds concerned also convey the image of the european union across all the member states. it is therefore essential that all countries should have access to this structural aid. we also call for more effective monitoring of judicial decisions between member states, although we are still awaiting the results of the codecision procedure as provided for in the constitution. we know that all this must help to improve the mobility of europeans. we must also improve the mobility of young people more specifically: facilitating academic exchanges, making use of the great experiences of vocational training. we have ambition, you have ambition. we want to develop and improve working conditions to achieve concrete measures, to improve the balance between family and working life. this is how we can achieve the objective of the union and bring european society as a whole to the top. in its role as initiator, the european commission must be visionary. in the political field, we emphasize euro-mediterranean relations. the euro-mediterranean policy must be much stronger. she has to be the priority. we must also look at our borders, the borders of europe. in conclusion, mr president of the commission, i should like to say that the political will must be expressed in financial perspectives, which must be assessed in their proper context. the member states cannot ask more of europe by giving less. so it is political energy that we need today to get the engine of our performance, which is the very essence of our jobs, going. you have that energy. we will stand by you, mr president, in the spirit of positive cooperation that you have spoken of.
mr president, mr president of the commission, as we know, it is the commission's legislative programme which makes it possible to translate the council's political priorities into concrete action. we therefore welcome the priority given to the implementation of european legislation, but we want firm commitments for the years ahead. the strengthening of security in europe remains a priority. but it must not be at the expense of civil liberties. the proposals for improving the exchange of information and strengthening operational cooperation are a step forward in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, but the sense of insecurity felt by europeans, which we recognize, must first and foremost be combated by an active policy of protecting and promoting fundamental rights. that's how our democracies must defend themselves, and that's how they will win. we want action to be taken to combat discrimination, racism and xenophobia. strengthening judicial cooperation remains a priority in order to ensure that european citizens have the same rights and the same access to justice throughout europe. we therefore welcome the planned extension of judicial cooperation to certain aspects of family law. we call on the commission to honour this commitment and to come forward with proposals based on the principle of mutual recognition in the areas of the evaluation and use of evidence and procedural safeguards. we want a fairer approach to asylum and immigration, one which respects rights and shares burdens and responsibilities. we want to open up legal pathways for immigration that respect the needs and fundamental rights of migrants. finally, we call for significant progress in defining minimum standards for granting and withdrawing refugee status.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i would first of all like to welcome the fact that a debate with the commission, represented by you, mr president of the commission, can take place in this parliament after the world social forum and the world economic forum. i believe that this is a sign of appreciation by our assembly for the world social forum, which was presented by many, at the time of its creation in 2001, as a gathering of sterile opposition to globalisation. in fact, social forums and the movements that drive them have upended the debate on globalization. they have popularised many positive themes and proposals which are now being debated in all international forums, including, and increasingly, within the world economic forum in davos itself. i am thinking here of access to global public goods, the creation of global taxes, debt cancellation, or the reform of international financial institutions and their necessary transparency. i believe that one of the other important contributions of the social forums has been to inscribe the challenge of liberal globalization, the economic and social injustices it engenders, its often destructive effects on the ecological balance of the planet, not in the illusion that national or sovereign solutions must be found, not in a rejection of the very idea of globalization, but in the idea that globalization must be transformed, transform its rules, its institutions, to allow another globalization, a globalization of solidarity, of democratic achievements, of human rights, a globalization that ensures the right of all peoples to development, justice and peace. for the european union, this new global civil society is a point of reference, because its aspirations are in line with the objectives that the union has set itself at international level. however, it is not enough to welcome its emergence, we must also give concrete expression, through our policies and our decisions, to what it demands and to what it aspires to. so we have to show that europe is making a difference, as you said. we must show - and we are doing so in some areas, for example with the kyoto protocol which you mentioned - that we are capable of actually transforming international policies. in the social sphere as in others, such as those we have just discussed, declarations of love are not enough, but there is a need for love to be shown. today, 21 member states have still not kept their promise to raise development aid to 0.7% of gross domestic product. today we are talking about a global tax. i welcome this and many member states have signed the new york declaration of september 2004, but unfortunately we are hiding behind the refusal of a few to not take a decision. so i'm going to make you the following offer. the union, through the commission, should help those member states which wish to commit themselves, if necessary by means of enhanced cooperation, so that they are not blocked by the reluctance of some to implement, as of now, a tax dedicated to international development financing. it could be used to combat aids, because a recent council document shows that if nothing is done by 2010, in five of the most affected developing countries, a fifth of the working population will disappear. take the initiative, mr president of the commission! show that europe can really move from declarations to deeds!
on behalf of the group. mr president, it goes without saying that i agree with almost nothing that has been said by the previous member and, like many members of this house, i was present at the world social forum in porto alegre. the question is not who can best combat poverty, but how to deal with it. on the one hand, the world social forum was a huge success this year - 155 000 registered participants, 135 countries, that's a lot - with a new tone, because, indeed, on a number of themes - social, environmental, economic, financial - many networks continued to be set up, worked extremely seriously, in a very concrete way, precisely to bring about a number of proposals, still in the making but very real. on the other hand, the world social forum, it is not just ngos, it is also parliamentarians - the forum of parliamentarians - elected local officials, in large numbers again this year, who have discussed the policies of municipalities, of local authorities to respond to the challenges we face. it is also extremely active, very dynamic, very enthusiastic and very hardworking, and i believe that such dynamism and such momentum cannot be swept away in a single stroke of the hand. the world social forum has two aims. the first aim was to explain that free trade cannot be the answer to the growing social inequalities. they are not getting worse because of some plague that fell from the sky, but because the policies that have been carried out for several years in terms of structural adjustment, in terms of reducing public expenditure have led to a worsening of inequality and poverty, to a further degradation of the environment and the planet as a whole. secondly, to propose an alternative to the present development model and to refuse to let the objective of global free trade be presented as the panacea and the miracle cure for everything. obviously not. all the agencies of the united nations show that the situation is worsening today. finally, whether it is porto alegre or davos, we need something concrete. we must stop paying for words, for positions, for images. we need very specific and concrete commitments, a timetable. mr president of the commission, that is what we also expect from you: not just good intentions, the millennium development goals, but extremely specific proposals, from you, who, together with the commission, together with all of us, are in a position to take decisions.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, a number of us were present a few days ago in porto alegre, either as national representatives or, more importantly, as members of the world parliamentary forum. i would therefore like to begin by thanking my colleagues in porto alegre, and in particular my friend harlem désir, for the work they have done over the years to enable europe to be present at this great citizens' meeting. the movement's breathlessness was a fear shared by many commentators and actors. that was not the case. the alter-globalist movement has been able to reorient its action and define a new method of organisation which has led this world social forum to be no longer just a place for demands but also a place for proposals. the fact that the davos economic forum is taking up some of the issues raised in the global social forums is proof that the questions asked there are asking all of us what kind of world we want. but neither the world social forum nor the davos economic forum are political actors capable of turning demands into political decisions on their own. that is why an institution like the european parliament must be a powerful relay and support for a number of areas such as the cancellation of the debt of the poor countries, the increase and improvement of official development aid, the introduction of a global tax, the reform of international trade rules, the fight against tax evasion and tax havens, the defence of public services. initiatives have already been taken by a number of heads of state or government. other proposals will have to be made to the g8. in 2005, the year of the third review of the implementation of the un millennium development goals, all this is welcome, provided that it is not another empty promise. this is why a campaign of mobilisation and questioning is being carried out this year by more than 100 organisations, ngos, associations and trade unions, at a global and european level. it will focus on the theme of poverty trade in particular, and among the many initiatives, a first highlight next april will be a global week of action for fairer trade. at the present rate of progress, we already know that the millennium development goals will not be achieved. it is therefore up to us to make good on the long-standing promises made by each other, by supporting these initiatives and this global campaign against poverty, to affirm and demonstrate our will to share better the wealth of a democratic and peaceful world. politicians have failed. they may still disappoint, but in no case should they cut themselves off from the idea that they themselves must fight for a more just world, and translate that idea into action.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first concern of the european citizens is that the european union should guarantee them a high standard of living and protection of their rights. we must therefore ensure that all european citizens enjoy the same rights, the same quality of justice and the same access to justice wherever they are in europe. in this context, the strengthening of judicial cooperation in criminal and civil matters is fundamental. moreover, with free movement in europe, criminal networks can take advantage of the eu's open internal borders while exploiting the lack of european coordination in the area of justice and thus escape prosecution. we must therefore now adopt the necessary mechanisms to meet the new challenges facing european judicial cooperation. the exchange of information extracted from criminal records gives european magistrates practical mechanisms to speed up proceedings so as not to leave criminals unpunished. it is possible, for example, as you said, to put an earlier end to known cases of paedophilia. such mechanisms and practical means must be put in place to improve the mutual trust between european judicial systems, which we absolutely need. the current lack of trust is a serious obstacle to achieving mutual recognition of existing practices and an adequate level of convergence of judicial systems. i would also like to join my colleague, mr antónio costa, in calling on the commission to come forward with proposals based on the principles of mutual recognition of decisions and minimum harmonisation. finally, commissioner, i would like to take this opportunity to welcome the proposed extension of judicial cooperation to certain aspects of family law in the 2005 legislative programme. i hope very much that we will continue our work in this direction.
mr president, commissioner, i have long been one of those who believe that there is only a state bureaucracy. but here, as a member of parliament, i have discovered an inextricable bureaucracy of the market: state aid. i think that what is being proposed to us today is a very considerable step forward, namely - as you said earlier in the previous debate, commissioner - the exemption from notification of small aids which are not thought to have an impact on the internal market. i think that's a very significant step forward. it will have to be consolidated and it would be good, moreover, to call it public service compensation and not state aid. it is a new legal category that could be created. i am one of those who believe that there are things to be stabilised in the report that is being put before us. in particular, i believe that we cannot vote again as we did in committee, because hospitals and social housing must be clearly integrated into the field. that's probably not enough. i am one of those who propose that there should also be self-production services of local authorities, which are being recognised in other texts, in particular the regulation on public service obligations in transport. it will probably have to wait for the commission's communication on social services before it is possible to include them in this text tomorrow. finally, commissioner, i think we will have to look at the question of the fourth altmark criterion. this criterion is so complicated that it would introduce new complications for local authorities into this text - which is a text of simplification. as you know, this is the comparison with the reasonable profit of a comparable undertaking on an eu-wide scale. it's totally impractical. so at some point, perhaps this fourth criterion, even at the risk of a small overcompensation, could be abandoned so that your objective of simplification can finally be pursued and achieved.
mr president, madam rapporteur, madam commissioner, the commission is constantly telling us that it cannot propose a framework directive on services of general interest because the issue is too broad and falls within the subsidiarity principle. however, with this monti package and with the proposal for a directive on services, the commission is dealing with the question of public services. by small successive touches, she draws a sort of impressionist painting that represents her own vision of public services. unfortunately, mr barroso's brush is not that of manet or renoir. thus, any financing of public services is necessarily state aid, implying a distortion of free and undistorted competition, an aberration that must be uncovered. and the right wing of this house goes further: mrs in 't veld's report rejects the exemption from the notification requirement for the social housing and hospital sectors proposed by the commission. similarly, if confirmed by the parliament, the requirement of a tendering procedure prior to any award of public service compensatory aid would weaken all small local public services directly and indirectly managed by the public authority. in conclusion, after the dismantling of the large national public services, we are witnessing the weakening of local public services. the report as it stands is a fraud: it claims to make the consumer happier by removing his rights as a citizen in relation to public services. portuguese voters have usefully denounced this this weekend to their former prime minister barroso.
mr president, the chairman of the committee on fisheries will tell you how much we appreciate this request for an urgent procedure. on the formal side, we have followed commissioner borg's commitments since the disaster and we have supported him. in substance, we shall have an extraordinary meeting of the committee on fisheries at 5.30 p.m. to decide whether this or that measure, as our colleague mr swoboda has said, is in the interests of the meeting. but as far as the form is concerned, and i believe that i represent the majority of my colleagues, i am in full support of the emergency procedure.
mr president, in adopting this report, the committee on civil liberties has of course accepted the council's request for urgency, but at the same time it has also called on the council, by an amendment to the legislative resolution and to the recital in the preamble to the regulation, to give every opportunity to diplomacy before proceeding to the final adoption of the text. i therefore invite the house, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to follow the suggestion of the committee which i have the honour of chairing, and which was also unanimously supported by the committee on development. from the procedural point of view, and also to avoid any objections from third parties, i would ask you to draw the council's attention to the need to submit complete texts to parliament, also at the level of annexes, during the legislative consultations.
mr president, mr karas is no longer here, but i would like to tell him that i too believe that the european union is a community of law. and above the stability pact, there is the treaty. but there is one article in the treaty which has not been changed, which says that the states consider their economic policy as a matter of common interest. to that end, growth in the euro area as a whole is a matter of common interest and i do not believe that the stability pact as it is in our hands today is the tool we need. i would say to mr radwan that the question is not whether there is speeding; the question is whether we want a sub-regulated mercedes and it seems to me that today the stability pact is a bit like that. i would like to make three comments on the stability pact. the first is that i believe that the right reform is the one that will enable the european union to finally have a macroeconomic tool to serve the lisbon strategy. in this context, the question of 'taking account of expenditure' will be a major point. it is not a question of opening up a negotiation between the demands of one member state or another. the question is where there can be added value for european growth. and only the commission can say that, because it is the commission that embodies the common european interest. secondly, some say that the label 'taking account of expenditure' could include, for accounting reasons, the way in which a member state would undertake structural reforms in the field of pensions. i think that is dangerous because for accounting reasons, again, we would be entering into debates that are at the heart of the elements of national cohesion. thirdly, when i look at the way in which the situation is assessed in the member states, we cannot consider that everything else is equal. the economic situation in a large country or a small country has different significance in the context of the stability pact. it is not enough to say that all states are equal in the eyes of the pact. everyone now accepts in economic circles - but it is still frowned upon in political circles - that the use of the budgetary tool does not have the same impact depending on the size of a country's economy. today, two countries like france and germany find themselves in a situation where they are both responsible and victims of a state of affairs from which no member state of the euro area or of the european union as a whole benefits. no one has an interest in seeing the euro area economy plummeted by too little growth within the main euro area economy itself. it is contrary to the treaty and to the common interest of the member states.
mr president, the european union's economic policy today is made up of three elements: a platonic ambition - the lisbon strategy - a contemptuous constraint - the control of public spending - and an ignored requirement - support for purchasing power. the lisbon strategy is a platonic ambition. who cannot agree with the objectives set in lisbon? who does not want a knowledge-based economy, better training of people, progress in research and development, a society of innovation? who would not agree with such goals? but who does not see that under the name of open cooperation there is in fact nothing? the free politics of the states which from time to time have imaginary meetings with the european union: council, commission, parliament, reduced to being institutions of comment and criticism. that's not how we're gonna win the game. a contemptible constraint, the control of public spending. behind a false quarrel between keynesians and liberals over the instruments of short-term policy and the use of public spending, we have seen over the last twenty-five years a structural drift in public spending, a systematic worsening in a number of large countries, in particular of indebtedness, which in fact prevents our children from controlling their future. it is death, that is, the past, that seizes the living, that is, the future. so in this case, the central bank is being accused, and it's wrong. what's the charge? interest rates too high; they've never been this low since the war. a policy of the euro too high; it is obviously the us policies of systematic deficit, not the supposed virtue of the europeans, that are leading to this situation. the truth is that we are in a situation where the central bank has little means. then there is the stability pact, and it is an instrument to be reformed. what is wrong with the stability pact? being stupid and mean. he's stupid, he's mean, let's try to make him less stupid, while still retaining his compelling virtue. finally, mr president, i would like to conclude by mentioning a requirement that has been ignored: the stimulation of purchasing power. who does not see that we are currently in a system where employees have less and less means and purchasing power compared to shareholders? there are methods to restore this: diffusion of shareholding, taxation of labour, but these methods are ignored. so what i fear, mr president, is that we, our institutions, the european union, will be reduced to being the ancient heart of a tragedy in which the only real actors are national governments.
mr president, concerning this problem, i tabled an amendment referring to 'public authority provide'. i notice that other amendments - in particular amendment 3 by the pse group - make a distinction between 'run' and 'monitor'. in my intention, 'provide' is a verb 'monitor' or 'run'. so i put an oral amendment to all the amendments referring to the tendering process. where amendment 29 by the green group, amendments 32, 33 and 27 state 'to provide' a public service. it should read 'to provide (run or monitor)'. provide is to run or monitor.
mr president, i have no objection to the substance of the matter, but i would not like to confuse the facts. this oral amendment has been tabled four times: it concerns amendment no 20, amendment no 19, amendment no 21 and amendment no 15. for the sake of clarity, i suggest, mr president, that whenever we vote on these amendments, you state that they are the amendments incorporating mr purvis' oral amendment. i think that's the clearest because i'm not sure that's where we're going to end up. so four amendments are concerned by mr purvis's oral amendment. if you would remind the house of mr purvis' oral amendment at each vote, i think it would be clearer for the house.
mr president, i do not want to complicate matters, but mrs in 't veld is asking that we vote once and for all on an amendment by mr purvis. you won't know where it's gonna be in the text, but it will be there. i would prefer very frankly, since there are four crucial amendments - the 20th, 19th, 21st and 15th - that we are asked each time whether we should adopt them subject to mr purvis' oral amendment. i think that would be clearer. i understand what mrs in 't veld is saying, but i would like her to tell me where she is going to put mr purvis' amendment, in what text exactly, since she explains that it is all over the text. i think it is confusing and i would not want anyone to make a mistake about this vote because, as you yourself have said, this text is sensitive.
mr president, i regret that your services did not inform you of my request to speak at the beginning of mr wolf klinz's speech, because i wanted to report on the discussion we had last night at the meeting of the coordinators of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i will make it very clear: the amendment referred to by mr wolf klinz has been raised and we have reported on the procedure that has been followed, which is the procedure we are still following. the secretary of the committee on economic and monetary affairs has done his job: he has consolidated the votes after the vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and has sent the result back to each political group for verification. the liberal group has not, at this stage, considered it useful to re-introduce or point out a material error in this amendment. in these circumstances and out of respect for the coordinators' meeting last night, i ask you, in accordance with what this house has already decided by the fact that a number of colleagues have stood up, to disregard this amendment.
in writing. the european capitals of culture programme was launched in 1985 with the aim of bringing european citizens closer together. the programme aims to highlight the great diversity of european culture while, in the supreme contradiction, pursuing a european policy of economic, social, political and cultural uniformity. this programme is nothing but the playful translation of your desire to impose on the peoples of europe a cultural and social model which they have not sovereignly chosen. you want to create a new european feeling for purely commercial purposes. as culture is a powerful educational vehicle, the european union not only promotes everything that can be deranged and debased, but also everything that contributes to the oblivion of the age-old religious values on which our membership of european civilization is based. this policy is now facing a further challenge as europe grows larger and moves further away from its founding principles. tomorrow, in your mind, will it be necessary to choose "istanbul" as the european capital of culture? this is the danger of this european construction which, by forgetting its past, is preparing us for a difficult future.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen,regulating the financing of services of general interest without defining what such services are, or even the general framework applicable to them, is inconsistent. to regulate it by leaving it to the states to define for themselves what they consider to be services of general interest is to let the court of justice harmonise definitions and take the place of the legislator. to base such regulation on an assessment in purely financial and competitive terms is to deny the public interest. subjecting the financing of public health or social housing to the approval of technocrats is immoral. in short, nothing in the texts before us today is suitable for us. they are in line with the policy pursued by the eurocrats, with the complicity of the governments. yesterday, it was about putting all public services on the grid, electricity, the post office, etc. into competition, breaking down state monopolies, and imposing privatisations. tomorrow, the bolkenstein directive, the local version of the gatt, will make it possible to import social dumping into our territories in the field of services. because we reject this vision, which will be exacerbated by the european constitution, because we agree to put an end to certain flagrant abuses, but we nevertheless defend the legitimacy of certain public services, we will vote against this report.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mass unemployment, sluggish growth, recurrent budget deficits, an explosion in public debt, stifling fiscal policy, relocations - unfortunately, everyone knows the sad economic situation. for these ailments, your recipes are always the same. if everything goes wrong, you will hear that there is not enough european standardization. there is not enough competition between european economies, not enough competition in services, not enough openness to global competition, which you do not care whether it is fair or not, not enough immigration of skilled workers, too much social protection. the bureaucratic charges ? they are only national. your regulations, not consolidated, loose, sometimes inconsistent or even aberrant, are not in question! monetary policy, which leads to the overvaluation of the euro and plunges our economies? she's perfect. neither brussels nor frankfurt can be wrong. but we think that brussels europe is wrong. despite 20 years of standardization and europe's integration into the world's free trade system, our problems are only getting worse. and if they are only getting worse, it is precisely because of this policy, your policy, that they are getting worse.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the financing policy for nature protection and in particular the natura 2000 network.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for your reply, but it is true that it is not satisfactory. i am not satisfied with it, because in the end - and you will allow me to be particularly direct and simple - the question we can ask ourselves today with the proposals you have made is whether the european union really wants to preserve its biodiversity and if so, it is like a cathedral, we must put in the means to manage the natura 2000 network. without money, without a budget really for these expenditures, i think it is not worth having any illusions. we all know, commissioner, most of the members in this chamber know from their experience on the ground, that if it is not clearly stated in the rural development funds, the erdf or the esf that funds can be obtained locally in the regions through these means, you know very well that all the money will go to everything but natura 2000. natura 2000 will be in direct competition with all other projects. at the agricultural level, of course, there will be opportunities for integration, and this will be the alibi for natura 2000 being integrated. but we have no illusions, commissioner. we really need to go further. and it is because we have absolutely no confidence in this proposal that i, as rapporteur for life+, propose - as long as the council and the commission have not decided on the eur 3 billion per year needed for management - that we put a life component in life+ which was formerly 'nature': life management natura 2000. we expect every guarantee that the natura 2000 network can be set up, because, commissioner, here and on the ground we have really fought for this instrument to be set up. in the field, we didn't want to... (the president cut the speaker off)
as you know, the gaelic is not translated, but we understood some of your speech.
mr president, commissioner, natura 2000 is one of the major issues that often raise doubts about the construction of europe. our fellow citizens share our ambition to protect biodiversity and see that we are drawing up texts, but when it comes to providing the means, europe is not up to the task. our citizens accept the idea of sustainable development in the belief that we can combine the defence of the planet with economic development and employment, and when it comes to finding the ways and means to achieve this, europe is not up to the task. we therefore need to find new tools to make natura 2000 work. three requirements: firstly, there must be a specific fund, because there is objectively a contradiction between the expectations of funds to promote economic development, rural development and to make the territories live according to natura 2000. so we need a specific fund, that is the first requirement. the second requirement is that the implementation of natura 2000 must be encouraged, whatever the criteria of the european funds. i'll give you an example to illustrate the contradiction. in the current erdf regulation which you are negotiating, the areas which are retained are limited to wooded or cultivated areas. natura 2000 needs pristine natural lands that are neither forested nor cultivated, namely wetlands. thirdly, we need a tool for innovation, so that the practices in the field are more in line with what we could predict for the future. so we need to have a specific tool in life+ and we need to keep two pillars: a general environmental pillar and a pillar for life nature, as we did before. as you have clearly understood, commissioner, we consider that the commission's proposals are not, as they stand, likely to convince our fellow citizens on the ground. we believe that the protection of biodiversity is a step forward, that this action is compatible with the development of rural areas and the economic future of our country. we now need proof of this conviction in the form of a credit of at least three billion euros under the structural funds.
mr president, the commission communication on natura 2000 funding discusses the various possibilities for meeting the needs that will arise in the period 2007-13. it concludes, as the commissioner has pointed out, that the creation of a new financial instrument is not the appropriate formula. i fully share that view, although it has not been expressed much this afternoon in this house. natura 2000 sites proposed by the member states will in general be eligible as a priority for cohesion or structural funds, and may also receive priority life funding to cover the costs of managing and monitoring the programmes. why, then, should we insist on distinguishing between funding for natura 2000 programmes and funding for regional or rural policies? the actions in both cases are closely linked, whether the objectives are related to local development, environmental protection or the maintenance of biodiversity. there is a great risk that natura 2000 will be completely disconnected from all other activities in the territories concerned. the obstacles encountered during the long - or very long - period of natura 2000 area definition would be multiplied and the isolation of this exemplary approach would be increased. there is also a concern that the implementation and management of programmes will be too complex. it would result in an inflation of operating costs and an impression of a technocratic monument which would be rejected by the populations concerned. finally, the projected costs of the programmes vary widely according to the countries and natura 2000 areas they have selected. the intelligent use of the structural funds, which could possibly be supplemented by life, would, in my view, be much more effective than a specific financial instrument.
member of the commission. i completely agree that it is very important to ensure that the number of hectares covered by forest increases. within the rural development policy, there are different possibilities currently under discussion on sustaining or supporting the possibility of planting new forests. it must be said that it is ultimately up to the member states to decide whether they want to use the different tools and the cofinancing in the rural development policy.
the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on the driving licence.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would like to thank all the members of parliament who took part in this debate, which i consider to be an important one. i would also like to thank mr grosch very much for a report whose quality has been unanimously acknowledged. i warmly thank him and the committee on transport and tourism for their support and for the improvement of the commission's text. mr grosch, that's very good. this is a highly sensitive subject for european citizens and you have therefore managed to strike the right balance. i have heard some of you warning the union against over-regulation, but i must say that this new driving licence, of which i already see some here and there in some member states, is in my view likely to bring greater safety for all, simplicity for users and subsidiarity which leaves a certain number of decisions to the member states. so i would say that this is a very balanced text. it is true that we, ladies and gentlemen, are legislating on a very sensitive subject. the driving licence, mr president, is the most widespread diploma in the union today: nearly 300 million holders often depend on it for their mobility, for their daily lives. on the other hand, of course, the diversity of reactions shows that the number of experts equals the number of driving licence holders and that each expert has his own opinion on the subject. however, given the agreement reached in the council last october, given the vote in committee - your committee - a very broad consensus is emerging, which confirms that the objectives proposed by the commission are broadly shared by the other institutions. of course, because of the number of amendments and the different reactions, i cannot comment on all the points. i can tell you that the commission is able to accept almost all your amendments, mr rapporteur, but on the other hand it is obliged to suggest that you reject a number of amendments which, even if they reflect praiseworthy intentions, would in some way unbalance and weigh down the text. this is a step forward, and we know that there will be further improvements. i am thinking for example of amendments nos 97 to 129. of course, mr president, i will send you the details of the commission's reaction to all the amendments in writing, but i would like to answer a few questions and first of all explain the replacement of the licences already in circulation. your report, mr grosch, proposes replacing all existing licences within 10 years for paper models and within 20 years for other models. it is true that the commission did not originally propose to replace all the licences already in circulation. however, recent revelations about document fraud and fraudulent driving licences - which some of you have referred to as 'driving licence tourism' - have changed attitudes in the member states on this subject. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. this operation will directly contribute to the improvement of road checks, and will create an additional means to reduce impunity. the creation of a computer network will also contribute to this objective. in this connection, i would like to inform parliament that the commission is cooperating with the member states to set up a network called resper (driving licence network). this will link the national bases together and work on it will be completed in 2005. that is why all the amendments are acceptable to the commission, and i have no doubt that the wording proposed by the grosch report opens up the prospect of a fruitful debate in the council on this replacement of the licences already in circulation. the commission cannot, of course, accept amendments which do not go in that direction and which would even prevent any future resolution of the problems i have already mentioned. i should also like to say a few words about the limited administrative validity. the commission has proposed a ten-year administrative validity for future driving licences. this driving licence must include a recent photograph and incorporate the most advanced anti-fraud protection. this will allow for effective controls and improved road safety without incurring excessive costs. it is true, however, that the commission has not proposed that this regular renewal be linked to a medical examination because in this area we must still leave a certain number of responsibilities to the member states in the name of subsidiarity. that is the limitation of the administrative validity, which we nevertheless find interesting in that it helps to combat fraud and to update the licence without excessive formalities. as i said, the commission has not proposed regular medical examinations and the limited validity is not automatically linked to these checks, which remain the responsibility of the member states. i thank all those who have raised the problem of motorcycles, especially with regard to young people, and sometimes older people, who use motorcycles. one of you pointed out that at a certain age, you can get a taste for motorcycles without necessarily being prepared for it. it's true that we have to be very careful. motorcycle drivers are involved in accidents sixteen times more often than motorists. if current trends continue and we do nothing, by 2010 two-wheelers will account for up to a third of all deaths. i was minister for health in a member state and i can tell you that i have been affected for the rest of my life by the number of deaths, but also by the accidents that leave young people quadriplegic. so i think we have to be extremely careful. that is why i would like to begin by thanking the members of parliament who, with and around their rapporteur, have done a very remarkable job. i am sure that our fellow europeans will be very sensitive to this progress, although we still have some progress to make, of course. i have heard and i am sensitive to the problem of the cost of driving licences and the need for training of examiners. this is another area for action and research in the member states, because the younger generation in particular must not face difficulties in obtaining this driving licence, which is often a tool for many young people to enter the professional world. that's what i meant. i therefore accept your amendments on behalf of the commission, mr rapporteur. i am obliged to omit a number of them, but i would nevertheless like to thank the authors for their contribution to this debate, which should not be underestimated when we consider its importance for the daily lives of european citizens. commission position on the amendments: see annex
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by mrs corien wortmann-kool (a6-0013/2005) on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on pollution caused by ships and the introduction of penalties for infringements.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i will try to be brief, but i still want to answer a couple of questions. firstly, i cannot allow that there is a contradiction between this draft directive and the marpol convention: that is totally wrong. marpol only provides for sanctions for those who have acted deliberately and those who have committed an unforgivable offence. but this same convention must be read in conjunction with the convention on the law of the sea: it gives the coastal states the opportunity to strengthen their measures to prevent and combat pollution in their territorial sea, and it is this provision which is contained in the convention on the law of the sea which we have invoked. since each member state can invoke it, the union can also do so. i have explained this to the secretary-general of the imo. so i do not understand this criticism: we are in compliance with the marpol convention and the law of the sea convention. i would add, as the rapporteur has very well said, that the sanctions are proportionate: it is a question of punishing serious negligence and it is of course a question of proportioning our sanctions. it is not a question of criminalising, mr president, but of making people accountable. i put a little passion into my words because i believe in this cause, which is that of our common heritage. so i am very kindly answering the question, of course, but is the honourable member not here? sanctions may be imposed on ships registered under the flags of third states when they enter a community port. on this side of the spectrum, there is no discrimination against european flags. that's what i'm talking about! i would add that not only do we not see any objection to this approach from the international maritime organisation, but we also want to cooperate, as i said to the secretary-general. we are building on the work of this maritime organisation which will also promote black boxes and has even set out a specific timetable for this. mr president, the conclusion of all this is that we have, after all, obtained a unanimous political agreement in the council. that is why i am warning parliament against this agreement which is being drawn up in europe with a large majority, achieved in the trilogue with the council. i would like to conclude by saying that we should not wait for the next disaster to suddenly become aware of what is happening and be accountable. so far, the law of the sea has progressed as disasters have arisen. well, this time, we have a tremendous chance of being able to prevent that. that is why i personally believe that this text is balanced, that it is not intended to criminalize anyone, but to make everyone responsible. i therefore thank parliament in advance, madam rapporteur, for its willingness to accept this text as far as possible. commission position on the amendments: see annex
thank you very much, commissioner, for your reply and for the passion you have shown.
mr president, this was not a procedural motion, but rather a personal challenge. commissioner, would you like to add a supplementary answer?
the commission's vice-president i apologize, but i really wanted to answer honestly and i respect the opinion of everyone here, even if i am putting a little passion into defending this text. i would like to say that it is not my place to question the members of parliament in any way. i never thought i'd blame anyone. what i mean - and i think you agree with me, but i may not be able to answer your question completely - is that ships registered under the flags of third countries are subject to regulations when they enter a community port. if you will, mr president, i would suggest to the honourable member that he would like to speak to me so that we can clarify the situation; i am simply stating what i consider to be the law applicable to the present situation. perhaps he is looking at other situations, which is why i am proposing a more complete discussion between us.
the presidency of the council thanks you for your availability, mr commissioner. i think that's actually the wisest thing to do. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mrs renate sommer (a6-0055/2004) on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on harmonised river information services on community inland waterways.
the commission's vice-president i shall be brief, mr president, but first i would like to thank mrs sommer again for her excellent work and the committee on transport and tourism. normally, i hope, this should lead to the adoption of the proposal at first reading. the commission should be able to endorse a compromise reached during the informal trilogue with the council. we accept the 15 amendments voted by the tran committee which confirm the council's position and, of course, mrs sommer, we accept the 34 new amendments which you have proposed. they reflect the compromise reached in the informal trilogue with the council. i hope that the house will support this approach. i also wish to greet mr chichester. i would like to thank him and tell him that, although the institutional procedures relating to comitology reserve this comitology for the representatives of the member states, they do not allow other interested parties to be represented on the comitology committees. nevertheless, mr chichester - and i am quite right in your observation - the commission must ensure that the industry is properly consulted before proposals are made, because this is the condition for the industry to understand that river information technology is a commercial opportunity and to be able to offer it at a reasonable and affordable price. like mrs sommer, you have stressed that these are small and mediumsized enterprises for whom the introduction of sifs should not be too burdensome. that's what i meant. some of you have insisted on intermodality. they're absolutely right, that's a major point. if we want to develop inland waterway transport, we really must succeed in putting this intermodality into practice. that will be one of the main lines of my action. i would also like to say that i agree entirely with the honourable member when she talks about the concordance tables. it is true that we must do so. the union has meaning precisely because the member states agree to transcribe directives and, gradually, to report on this transcription. that said, be careful not to jeopardize this text. i believe, mr president, that the interinstitutional dialogue must continue if concordance tables are to become a virtuous habit in all texts. i would like to say again that i would not like this text, which mrs sommer has perfectly improved on behalf of parliament and with your help, not to be adopted quickly at first reading, although i think it is possible. mr president, i would therefore like to thank parliament in advance for its careful attention to the implementation of this text, which i hope will help us to develop inland waterway transport in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr robert evans (a6-0057/2004) on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the recognition of seafarers' certificates issued by member states and amending directive 2001/25/ec.
the commission's vice-president mr president, my first words are to thank mr evans and the committee on transport and tourism very warmly for not only supporting but also enriching the commission's proposal. i think that what mr lópez-istúriz white has just said shows that the aim is to enhance the image of the seafarer and to make this wonderful career more attractive to the younger generation. the paradox is that industry is declining while the potential of shipping in europe is enormous. the training of seafarers must therefore be improved and the current gaps closed in order to attract a sufficient number of young europeans to these professions. i would add, as you have said, mr evans, that free movement will be an additional argument, as will the recognition of patents. the proposed amendments reinforce the commission's objectives. everything that promotes the free movement of seafarers, as i have just said, everything that makes it possible to ensure strict control of existing rules and to combat illegal practices in the field of maritime patents, all these amendments are in the right direction. they aim to clarify the text of the proposal, while respecting the council's general approach. so, mr evans, the commission accepts all the amendments tabled by parliament. i would, of course, draw attention to amendment no 32 which deletes the requirement to provide a table of correspondence with the national implementing measures and replaces it with a recital. this is in line with the council's position. however, you will understand my reluctance in view of all that i have said previously. i am glad that parliament and the council have decided to bring their texts together in order to reach agreement at first reading. we do not, however, forget the need for a correspondence table to improve legislation. once again, as i said in connection with the previous text, mr president, we must reach an agreement at interinstitutional level to put this mechanism into operation, which will facilitate the implementation of everything that is decided by your parliament, in agreement with the council. a statement to this effect will be made by the commission when the directive is finally adopted. i am counting on parliament's support on this important matter which will encourage the free movement of seafarers between member states and will, i hope, give rise to new vocations for this profession which we need. commission position on parliament's amendments: see annex.
commissioner, parliament thanks you for standing watch with him on the bridge. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mrs elspeth attwooll (a6-0022/2005) on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a community fisheries control agency and amending regulation (eec) no 2847/93 establishing a control system applicable to the common fisheries policy.
member of the commission. mr president, in my concluding remarks i shall try to reply very briefly to all the speeches made. in reply to the rapporteur, mrs attwooll, i repeat that, with regard to illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing, it is important to have these in the work programme, but the commission does not agree that they should be indicated as a priority task since priorities can change and, therefore, it would be an unnecessary curtailment of the priorities with regard to the agency's functions. as regards the agency having the remit to set up a training centre: again, the commission does not believe that this function should be centralised in the hands of the agency, but that there should be flexibility and it should be retained as it is. we consider the changes to the wording – i am referring here to amendments 36, 38, 39, 40 and 41, from 'preparing', for example, to 'drafting', working 'through its executive director' or the need for 'the endorsement of member states' and the change from 'instructions' to 'operational guidance' – as a weakening of the text, in spite of the good intentions of mrs attwooll. accepting amendment 39, for example, would lead to an intergovernmental process. let me turn to the comments made by mr maat. the five-year period is necessary as the commission considers that three years is too short a period in which to carry out the necessary evaluation. on the lack of trust between representatives of the fishery industry and the commission, i would like to say here that the fisheries control agency is a start. as regards the composition of the administrative board and its functions – here we are speaking of control and not simple administration – the fishing industry is a stakeholder and, therefore, giving it voting rights would make it, so to speak, judex in causa propria. with regard to the comment made by mr kindermann– if i understood him correctly – that the competence of the agency must remain clear and that, therefore, racs should not be included, the commission agrees with this position. as regards the comments made by mr booth and mr allister with regard to the present cfp, that it should be scrapped and that the new policy designed by fishermen , in other words, the nationalisation of the fisheries policy: my own comment is that this is a much wider debate and, therefore, goes beyond the scope of this proposal. mr allister again made the same comments as mr booth. as regards the comments by mrs fraga estévez and mrs miguélez ramos that the amendments improved the thrust of the proposal: a number of them do, as i said, and in fact we were in a position to accept over half of them. as regards the others, the commission's view is that they do not, because they tend to go beyond the scope of the proposal and of the agency, or else destroy the necessary balance of the control mechanism. as regards the points regarding the industry, again i refer to what i have just said with regard to the comments made by mr maat. concerning mr stevenson, who is willing to support a workable proposal, the commission, with the amendments accepted by it, attains exactly this. the commission rejects obligatory consultation of racs because the racs have, so far at least, an advisory and not a management role. as regards mr casaca's point that this has to be a real control agency and not another bureaucracy: the commission agrees, and the proposal tries to give an effective role to the agency. mr varela suanzes-carpegna said that a list of competences is not enough: this is noted. at this juncture i can say that not mentioning a specific technological development, for example, that could be used for control purposes does not mean that such would not be possible. with regard to mrs stihler's point on the watering down or otherwise, i can only repeat what i said to mrs attwooll. as regards the racs, i would not exclude voluntary consultation of racs and redrafting the deployment plans, but i would not advise an obligatory inclusion of consultation of racs, at least at this juncture.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
finally, the agenda calls for the oral question to the commission (o-0005/2005 - b6-0010/2005) on the international action plan on the reduction of by-catches.
the debate which has just ended, commissioner, has shown you how much my colleagues and i attach importance to the notion of the credibility of the common fisheries policy, either to strengthen it or - for some of my colleagues - to challenge it. in this challenge to the justification of a common fisheries policy, one of the arguments most frequently raised against us concerns the mass of discards that the current regulations lead our fishermen to make, discards of fish which, most of the time, will not survive their capture anyway. this problem has been a concern of our committee for years, as you know, and it has led your committee, in agreement with ours, to initiate the implementation of a few hundred study projects aimed at finding a solution if possible. that is why i have put this oral question to you on behalf of the committee which i have the honour of chairing. it is indeed - and i quote the text of this question - a global issue and one of the main problems of fisheries, for which there is at present no international action plan, either from fao or from anyone else. the adoption of an international plan for the reduction of by-catches is urgently needed and could play a key role in reducing by-catches at international level. many leading scientists and non-governmental organisations, specialists in the marine environment, advocate the adoption of such a reduction plan. in fact, several fao member states have already committed themselves to supporting such a proposal at the next meeting of the fao fisheries committee in march. no nation has yet committed itself to take the initiative of such a proposal. given that the european union is a leading fishing power, is the european commission prepared to take the initiative in proposing an international action plan on the reduction of by-catches? is the commission aware that if an international action plan is not on the agenda of fao in 2005, it will have to wait until the next session in 2007? i thank you, commissioner, for agreeing to come and answer this question and the supplementary questions which my colleagues will put to you.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to thank the members for all their comments and remarks. i will group the interventions into four points. first, the by-catch problem being a worldwide problem and the question of the commission taking leadership. as i said in my original response, we are willing to do so but we have to have the necessary resources made available to us because this will be a mammoth task. we will be taking the matter up with the council in the very short term. with regard to the forthcoming fao meeting, the commission, as i said before, is ready to support the development of an international plan of action on by-catch and again we will seek member states' agreement to convey this position to fao and its members during the forthcoming committee on fisheries meeting, in particular when the work programme for the short and medium-term will be discussed. with regard to discards, we are actively considering this problem and hopefully we will be coming up with specific proposals soon. another point concerned declining fish stocks and by-catch being all the more regrettable as a result. here i would like to say that one way in which the commission tries to reduce discards is by improving selectivity by technical measures such as enforcing minimum mesh sizes or closed areas which can limit the catches of juveniles. other measures such as the use of separator trawls or separator grids can reduce the by-catch of non-target species. well-applied technical measures can be effective but they are not without problems. for example, it is difficult to find the appropriate mesh size in mixed fisheries. the minimum mesh size needed to protect juvenile cod, for example, would be too big to catch adult haddock and whiting. nevertheless technical measures have a part to play. the commission intends to revise completely the technical measures regulation in 2005 to follow up its communication on environmentally-friendly fishing. to deal with mixed fisheries the commission tries to propose tacs to take into account associations between species. this is difficult to do but steps in this direction have already been taken. the commission has asked isis to give its advice on a fisheries basis rather than on a single stock basis. these are the first steps in adopting an ecosystem approach to fisheries management. another approach advocated by the commission is to manage the fisheries through effort control rather than rely on individual tacs. in principle it could be used instead of tacs, with fishermen allowed to land all catches, but in practice effort control will usually complement rather than replace tacs. at the end of 2002 the commission presented a discard action plan which discussed the problems of discards more fully and the ways in which the problem could be tackled. following up this plan, the commission will consult with member states and the industry during 2005 with a view to initiating a number of pilot projects to eliminate or at least reduce discards in selected fisheries. my final point concerning racs is that they can be involved and certainly we find no problem in involving racs in giving advice on the formulation of such plans.
thank you very much, commissioner. we have now exhausted our agenda. i wish everyone a very happy end to the evening.
on behalf of the group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, while i fully agree with the text of the joint resolution which will be put to the vote in parliament shortly, i should like to follow you, madam commissioner, in pointing out two points about this text: one concerning the resumption of dialogue between the parties to the israeli-palestinian conflict and the other concerning the situation created in lebanon by the assassination of rafic hariri. i would like to repeat what i have said many times in this house about the new prospects open up between israel and palestine. if, as we all hope, a peace agreement is accepted, the experience of decades of conflict resolution shows that it will be difficult, if not impossible, to do without a peace corps to prevent the incidents which always occur in these conditions from turning into fires, initiated by local warlords who are incapable of resolving themselves in peace. for this mission, i think a european force would be more likely than any other to be accepted by both sides. my question to the council, mr president-in-office, is this: is it not time to prepare for this? as regards the situation in lebanon, we have repeatedly called on the international community to withdraw all foreign forces from its territory. is it not time, madam commissioner, to ask syria to finally comply with this injunction before any signature of the association agreement, the negotiations of which have been concluded today?
on behalf of the group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i welcome, together with my colleagues, the fact that 2005 will be marked by the renewal and relaunching of the euro-mediterranean dialogue, because that is how we have always spoken of the barcelona process, both to highlight all the hopes it has generated and all the disappointments that are being measured day by day. my colleagues have referred to the odious and intolerable murder of rafic hariri, which raises a question mark in this part of the world, even as a light is shining in the middle east which we want to maintain and extend. we must, beyond our wishes, which we have been repeating for ten years, think about the practical way of advancing the main issues concerning democracy and human rights in this region of the world, because it is on these fundamental issues, to which the fight against terrorism, the issues of peace and stability and also development are linked, as the arab bureau repeatedly wishes in its various reports of the united nations for development, it is on this fundamental question of democratic foundations, individual and collective freedoms in this region of the world that we must work. we have a few leads. the commission has a few ideas, which it has set out in a communication with ten very specific recommendations. i believe that the adjusted tools, the national action plans, the creation of the subcommittees on human rights within this process, and therefore the new neighbourhood policy, must really help us to implement these ten recommendations, which are based, as you have said, madam commissioner, on overcoming the purely intergovernmental logic in this region of the world. this is the whole point of the strength and potential of this euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly and also of the euromed civil society platform, because we know very well that our ambitious objectives of democracy and development in this region can only be achieved with a strong commitment from the societies themselves. we're going to see mr. yushchenko in a few minutes. we know that all the policies and all the wishes we formulate must first rely on the energy of the societies themselves to free themselves from complicated and freedom-threatening situations. i think that's the bet we should... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, what prospects has the barcelona process opened up ten years later? during this period, europe invested heavily in its organisation and enlargement. she hasn't always paid her southern flank the attention it deserves. at the same time, the israeli-palestinian conflict has blocked the momentum of global development by capturing all the attention in this region. today, there is an urgent need to revitalise this process. tools have been put in place: association agreements, a neighbourhood policy and, above all, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, which is a major democratic step forward in this process. there is also the establishment of the anna lindh foundation to promote dialogue between cultures and civilizations. there is also the idea of creating a euro-mediterranean development bank to promote employment, health and education in the countries of the south. other civil society organisations are being set up. all these projects are progressing, but their effectiveness will depend on two imperatives. the first is to create a climate of political reform, and the people of the south are ready to support it. the second is to establish a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians. the current circumstances are favourable but very fragile. europe must be more involved. all these projects are converging towards more peace, more security and more shared prosperity, but far too slowly. europe has understood that there is no war of civilizations, but that an alliance of civilizations is necessary, because after having destroyed a wall in the east, europe must now build a bridge in the south.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, the barcelona process is about to celebrate its tenth anniversary and peace in the middle east has never seemed so close. it is time to recall the objectives which are still relevant: the establishment of a common area of peace, stability and security; an area of shared prosperity; the rapprochement of peoples and cultures. as javier solanna pointed out in june 2004, this partnership is a strategic challenge for europe, provided that it is able to achieve its ambitions. firstly, the barcelona process must be the first pillar of the european neighbourhood policy, since this policy proposes to go much further than mere cooperation, to a certain degree of political and economic integration. the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly must be the democratic framework for this; it needs to be strengthened. the european presidency of apem must make it possible to consolidate a balanced partnership. let us talk about co-development based on a foundation of common values: democracy, good governance, the status of women, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue. finally, these objectives require europe to make its mediterranean policy a budgetary priority.
on behalf of the group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, you rightly recalled the many initiatives taken by the european union at the 60th session of the united nations commission on human rights. i agree, but i also remember the statements made by mrs chirin ebadi after the 60th session. she said, speaking about the silence on iran, on the human rights situation in iran: "the silence is an insult to the victims". i have kept that sentence in mind and i think it should also be remembered that at this 60th session a number of countries, including china, zimbabwe and cuba, have taken extremely strong initiatives to empty the commission on human rights of its contents. the european union must be particularly vigilant in the face of these very harmful strategies being pursued by certain countries. i understand, mr president-in-office, that we have several instruments at our disposal - i am thinking of china. but why should they be exclusive of each other? for these countries, the credibility of the european union, its effectiveness, is to show that it does not have two weights and two measures: it has several instruments, of course, but they are not mutually exclusive. i believe that the parliamentary resolution - at any rate, that is the wish of all the members you hear in this house - will help to strengthen the cohesion and consistency of the european union's activities. we have emphasized a number of rights which are considered to be new rights, third generation rights. it would be to the credit and advantage of the european union to emphasize these rights, which are linked to globalization. i am thinking of human rights, human rights and the responsibility of transnational companies. work on these issues is under way within un mechanisms; the european union could encourage and support them. we also had a long discussion on the question of the fight against terrorism, which, as mr ribeiro said, remains a matter of concern in many respects. we would like the states to obtain recommendations from the un on the fight against terrorism, because we see serious shortcomings in this area. i will end very quickly on the issue of journalists in conflict zones. we're talking about a dramatic situation that affects everyone. in my view, the international mechanisms to protect these journalists are not sufficiently consistent and effective and we also need to think about this issue.
mr president, fortunately there are other bodies besides the un commission on human rights to deal with this problem. this brings me to two points. the first is the interest we might find, in the interinstitutional dialogue with the presidency, the commission and the european parliament, in asking ourselves about the real usefulness of this committee, about the sometimes surprising presidencies it can give and about the quasi-absolution it grants to its members. the presence of the union may not be a blackmail, but a question of the real usefulness of this committee. i think we could use our place on this committee to try and move it towards a little more equitable solutions. my second point concerns efficiency. i have noted, mr president, that you propose that we actually restrict the subjects and the countries concerned, and i think that is very useful. in fact, the resolution presented by mrs flautre is very comprehensive, so we could draw on it. i've noted child rights, religious intolerance and the death penalty. let me add two themes that we could incorporate: freedom of expression, because it is an essential ingredient in the development of human rights, and slavery in all its forms. as regards the countries of korea, burma and palestine, it seems to me essential to add the democratic republic of congo, which is the site of a quarterly tsunami and has 3.6 million deaths since 1992 in general indifference, and finally darfur, which is beginning to be truly forgotten. we could group our effectiveness around these five themes and these five countries.
mr president, i would simply like to say that i have a usurped seat in the committee chairmen's bench, since i am no longer chairman of a committee and my colleague jean-marie cavada, who is chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, is sitting in the attic. i would like the services to repair the situation so that i can occupy a rank more in keeping with the humility of my situation and mr cavada can access the majesty of his office. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to ask for your attention for a moment, because the text of this oral amendment is not the one on your voting lists. at the end of paragraph 9, after 'demands the withdrawal of syrian troops from lebanon as stated in the un security council resolutions', i propose to add 'and will make this a crucial element of the assessment at the appropriate time of the signing of the association agreement'.
mr president, we are used to the noise of explanations of vote. i would simply like to congratulate the adoption of the wortmann-kool report, which is probably one of the most remarkable pieces of legislation the european union has passed in recent years. i had called here, in the presence of commissioner loyola de palacio, after the erika i and erika ii shipping packages, for the establishment of the european maritime safety area. if not materialized, it will be legal and ambitious. never has the european union gone so far as to prosecute the pirates who mourn our coasts and who very often destroy entire professions and the fauna and flora of the coastal area. i think we should welcome this considerable progress and hope that the council today will echo it. no one will be able to blame the european union for the damage done to the erika and the prestige. today, the member states are faced with their responsibilities. i personally hope that they will take full advantage of them, because europe is not only defending itself against marine pollution but is also sending an international message that is even bolder than marpol legislation and is able to bring about worldwide changes in legislation against pollution and against piracy. i would like to conclude by expressing a wish that the legislation we have adopted to combat emissions should be revised with the same ambition. in my opinion, the only solution is to equip our ports with free-of-charge degassing facilities, because you know that in degassing the difficulty is naturally to apprehend the offender who usually exercises at night in foggy weather. i therefore believe that a system of household waste, a port taxation with port facilities, should be introduced and that all ships should be given the opportunity to discharge their waste in dedicated facilities in all european ports. if we take this further, i believe we will be the first in the world today in terms of safety and sanctions against pollution. (applause) i would like to thank
the leveling from the bottom. this is the technique constantly used by brussels to harmonize european and non-european legislation. in this case, it is the patents granted to seafarers. the recognition of patents granted 'outside the european union' is simpler than that in force in the eu. this inevitably leads to more seamen being recruited from outside europe than from within. this report calls for simplifying our recognition procedures but not upgrading the existing extra-community procedures, which would have had the advantage of limiting the many frauds. let us not sell our degrees and qualifications in the sea-going trades. these jobs are difficult, and the constraints associated with them do not encourage young people to take up training: low pay, long assignments, restrictive working conditions, etc. this market is characterised by a growing shortage of skilled workers in favour of cheap and under-skilled labour from asian and eastern countries. we must restore the vocational pathways, and give importance to diplomas and certificates of qualification, not the other way around. finally, we must remove the flags of complacency on the garbage ships that are overflowing and polluting our seas and oceans.
in writing. brussels likes agencies. there are those from everywhere, from the european environment agency in copenhagen to the european food safety agency in parma to the european agency for safety and health at work in bilbao. now there will also be a community fisheries control agency, a real european fisheries ministry. the task of this fbi at sea will be to coordinate the control and inspection activities of the states in the fisheries sector. it will be the arm of a control which has so far been very modest. this is the control that parliament wants in both community and international waters. multinational inspection teams at sea and on land will therefore be set up. the agency may charter and operate surveillance vessels which it shall make available to observers. but who are these agents ? inspectors from other countries, foreign to national regulations, which negates the specific competence of each member state. they will therefore be able to inspect without necessarily finding infringements, without necessarily improving control. the question of the territorial waters of sovereign countries is no longer merely to consolidate community sovereignty but also foreign sovereignty.
on behalf of the group. mr president, when we talk about hunger, we also talk, it seems obvious, about agricultural policy. we cannot, on the one hand, discuss the possibility of increasing development aid and, on the other, pursue agricultural policies which are contributing to worsening the situation in many countries. i will take one example: at the moment we are negotiating economic partnership agreements with the acp countries (africa, the caribbean and the pacific), which are causing a great deal of concern and even controversy as to the guidelines envisaged today. the discussions are almost exclusively focused on greater trade liberalization, indiscriminately, without taking account of local situations, whereas even today many of our countries' exports, at low prices and often subsidized, are contributing to the considerable destabilization of the peasantry in these countries. so i think that at the acp-eu joint assembly meeting in bamako in april all these issues will have to be discussed. i hope, on behalf of my group, that the european union's approach in this area will evolve in such a way as to bring much more coherence between what we are saying today on hunger and poverty and what we are saying elsewhere, in other fora, on agricultural policies and the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. this is a very important question. let us begin by matching what we say on the one hand and what we do on the other, and i think we have already made some progress.
mr president, i welcome the fact that we are having a debate on the question of hunger and poverty. one more, i'd say, but i can't help but be pleased. the debate is also part of the continuation of the initiative launched by the quintet at the united nations last september. since then, many have expressed similar sentiments. i would like to remind you, however, that no concrete commitments have yet been made. only four eu member states are now meeting the commitment to spend 0.7% of their gdp on development aid. at the current rate of progress, the millennium development goals will not be reached by 2015. the eradication of hunger and poverty is as old a problem as the solutions proposed to address it: increasing the quality and quantity of development aid, cancelling and alleviating debt, introducing a global tax on capital flows, reforming international trade rules for fairer trade. moreover, all the initiatives proposed today can only be additional means of this development aid and in no way replace commitments made for a very long time. i will be vigilant in following up these commitments, vigilant in respect of this resolution, because only a strong political will will put an end to this scourge. hunger and poverty cannot be reduced to a fleeting debate subject to the vagaries of a media coverage of the situation or a charity of good will.
mr president, i am a little surprised at the turn the debate is taking. indeed, much of the discussion is focused on identifying additional sources of funding. even if we are right, i wonder if this debate will not obscure the real question, namely: before we ask ourselves about the amount of aid granted, should we not first try to improve the quality and efficiency of existing aid? the question arises all the more because discussions on international taxation or the creation of an international financing facility mechanism will be a form of hypocrisy unless the united states and the vast majority of the international community accept these mechanisms. similarly, the amount of effort to seek new means, while monterrey is still not reached, the priority to improve the effectiveness of existing aid to achieve the millennium development goal, the dispersion of resources and development policy objectives dilute effectiveness. we must not be caught in a race to the bottom; we must remain focused on finding viable solutions to meet our current commitments. let us be practical and pragmatic, that is what the people we want to help expect.
mr president, our textile and clothing industry is in a bad way. since the end of the 1980s, french companies have been laying off or closing down and relocations to low-wage countries have increased. since the 1960s, the french textile and clothing sector has lost two thirds of its workforce, or about 20 000 jobs a year, and today we are suffering from 2 000 job cuts a month. in my own region of nord-pas-de-calais, which has historically been a textile region, towns such as elesmes, roubaix and tourcoing have seen their businesses close. the social situation is already dramatic and yet tomorrow it will be worse. until now, quotas have been used to limit imports of textiles from third countries, but since 1 january 2005 the door has been opened to massive imports from china. france and europe must now choose a strategy to defend their textile industry. it is urgent to demand safeguard clauses from the wto. this possibility is open to member states when there is a sudden increase in imports causing serious damage to a local industry. this is the case today in europe and in france. since the end of quotas on 1 january, imports have soared and the chinese rush is destroying whole sections of what remains of our textile industry. the increase in imports of trousers produced in china between 1 january 2005 and 2 february 2005 was 792% compared to the same period in 2004. it was 613% for sweaters. before it is too late, and much to the chagrin of mr guillaume sarkozy, president of the french union of textile industries, a staunch supporter of the relocation of companies, we must not wait until we see that our internal market is overwhelmed to demand a return to customs barriers and safeguard clauses. the extreme liberals who drew up article 314 of the constitutional treaty, which announced the opening of our frontiers to world trade and the abolition of customs barriers, promise us a dramatic industrial and social regression. this textile business is a painful foretaste of that.
mr president, mr president-in-office, madam commissioner, my colleagues have repeatedly reminded me that the textile industry represents more than two and a half million jobs, and i myself come from a region, nord-pas-de-calais, in france, which knows what it is talking about, because it is suffering greatly today from this loss of jobs. these figures show how useful and necessary it is to have a strategy in place to help the textile and clothing industry to overcome the changes associated with the end of quotas. we have only partial data at present, but it is already alarming. in europe, according to the statements of chinese importers, since the end of quotas on 1 january 2005, imports of several categories of textile products have doubled or even tripled. the union must have trade policy instruments to respond to sudden changes in imports. in this respect, commissioner, it is becoming very urgent that the commission publish the guidelines on the specific safeguard clause for textile products for china announced since october 2004, without which the industries throughout their countries will not be able to react. the eu is fulfilling its wto commitments. it is now necessary for all its members to respect these commitments. the textile and clothing market must remain an open competitive market. the european union must also be aware that many of the so-called vulnerable textile producing countries are also likely to be severely affected by this lifting of quotas. i am thinking of bangladesh, cambodia and our mediterranean neighbours. for almost a decade now, the european union has chosen a partnership that promotes the development of the euro-mediterranean area. the textile question therefore brings us closer than ever to the need to rapidly establish a genuine free trade area.
mr president, my colleagues have pointed out that the consequences of the abolition of quotas have been immediate and that the threat to the european textile and clothing industry is very real. i would also like to give you an example of my region, which is very much affected by the decline of the textile industry. the castres-mazamet basin acquired its industrial culture through the de-inking and leather industry. for several years now, smes in this sector have been closing one after another. some have been able to reconvert themselves through skills acquired in international trade, industrial techniques and the development of new products. but do we have the right to condemn those who wish to pursue their trade in textiles and clothing? mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, do we not have a duty to protect the european textile and clothing industry? pending the implementation of the high level group proposals on which parliament will vote, the european union has defined a strategy to overcome the changes resulting from the disappearance of quotas, which seems to be expressed in concrete commitments: the elaboration of the draft protocol on textile rules of origin, the adoption of the guidelines on the china-specific safeguard clause for textiles, the establishment of the community preferences system, the likely setting of a 10% threshold to preserve the market share of traditional eu suppliers, negotiations at the wto to obtain substantial concessions from emerging countries that maintain high duties, as well as the maintenance of non-tariff barriers in textile matters, and finally the adoption of the strategic framework for the allocation of public funds, in order to improve the competitiveness and the timeliness of these public funds, and finally the implementation of the regional and local cohesion policy, in particular by improving the flexibility and the timeframe of the allocation of public funds.
mr president, the upheaval in the world textile and clothing industry is being felt most strongly in the european regions where textile production is highly concentrated. this is the case in my french region of nord-pas-de-calais, which has already been hit in recent years by restructuring and relocations and where this sector, the second largest industrial employer, still employs nearly 30 000 workers. in 2004, parliament, in a resolution, and the high level group on textiles and clothing called for a specific programme for this sector, particularly in the regions in difficulty, which have many smes and a high female employment rate. in these regions, european aid has in recent years helped to mitigate the socioeconomic consequences of sectoral crises, to preserve jobs and to cushion the effects of economic restructuring, in particular through innovation, integration, training and the development of modern industry. as the european union is drawing up its new financial perspective, these regions are worried about the future of the structural funds which have helped to bring about economic recovery. i am sure that the commission and the council will be anxious to reassure them and to prove to them that the economic and social cohesion to which these funds contribute is a priority for the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening consumer confidence is a key issue for the development of the internal market. the creation of a european legal framework that protects them legally against unfair commercial practices and is based on an adequate level of harmonisation will increase their confidence, whether they are shopping in a local store or on a website hosted in another member state. i am sensitive to the consideration of vulnerable consumers who, due to various factors such as age, physical or mental capacity, level of literacy or disability, require increased protection. i regret, however, that we have not been able to reach agreement on better protection for miners. i am particularly pleased that the principle of country of origin has not been reintroduced in the compromise and i congratulate our rapporteur, mercedes bresso, on her excellent work. the socialist group has always fought against this principle and will continue to do so in the framework of the services directive, because this principle only creates social and legal insecurity for citizens. the adoption of this directive and of mrs bresso's report tomorrow is therefore of the utmost importance for consumer protection. this will give us the opportunity to give the internal market a human face. that is the excellent attainment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs mercedes bresso, on the quality of the text which will be put to the vote tomorrow and which will help to protect european consumers, especially the most vulnerable, against the aggressive practices of unscrupulous operators. this second reading on unfair trading practices demonstrates that, where the political will exists, it is possible to develop european law which harmonises the diversity of national legal situations instead of putting them in competition. it should be remembered that in its initial draft the european commission proposed that we apply the principle of the country of origin and that it was the council which opted for a strategy of high harmonization, a method which our parliament clearly supported at first reading. i can therefore only urge the commission to draw lessons from this directive and encourage my colleagues in parliament to continue on the path of harmonization with regard to the texts under discussion, and in particular the draft directive on services and the draft on sales promotion, which is currently blocked in the council.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for your communication, for extending the debate on the situation of thyssen to the steel industry in general. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is the continuing bleeding out of jobs in this sector, the risk of losing technological know-how, the economic impacts on other activities, automotive, aeronautics, energy production, construction, etc. there are also implications for research: how will the new materials essential to the technologies of tomorrow be developed if our steel industries disappear? the european union must therefore have a duty and a right to intervene in the activities of the steel industry, supporting research and development of steel companies, if necessary, with public financial aid, checking that public investment contributes to the maintenance or development of employment and the modernisation of the industrial tool, adopting a more determined strategy in the face of industrial restructuring and its social consequences, supporting actions to reconfigure this industrial sector or to convert it to products with high added value, creating favourable conditions, in particular for the advanced and high-technology sectors, through the allocation of european union funds by the seventh framework programme. a french proverb says "it is by forging that one becomes a blacksmith". so it is by forging that we retain the blacksmiths, it is by forging that we master the craftsmanship, it is by forging that we invent the steels of tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am of course in favour of doubling the budgetary resources of the european union for research. when we realise that public and private expenditure on research and development in the union represents only 1.95 per cent of gdp, compared with 2.64 per cent in the united states and 2.98 per cent in japan, we can see the depth of the failure of the famous lisbon strategy and the failure of the commission. i therefore believe that if european union policy is to be effective in research, it is not only necessary to double the amount of money allocated to research, but also to criticise and radically re-examine the methods and objectives of the seventh framework programme for research and development, which is being implemented by the european commission and the council. contrary to the philosophy of the seventh framework programme, a successful r & d system can only be based on cooperation and exchange between researchers, public and private laboratories, and not on excessive competition and the scarcity of funds. my greatest fear is that resources will be concentrated on a limited number of priority research areas, which have a strong potential for immediate profitability for large industrial groups, to the detriment of basic physics and the human and social sciences, because the recruitment and careers of researchers may then no longer be based on scientific evaluation but on priorities directly dictated by the interests of the multinationals involved in the actions of the framework programme. i am of course of the opinion that research expenditure should be excluded from the calculation of the stability pact, but that is not enough. more fundamentally, the control of research matters in europe must no longer be in the hands of the commission alone, but in the hands of elected representatives of the scientific community. i therefore propose the creation of an assembly representing all researchers in the european parliament. this assembly would have important tasks, such as ethical assessment, drafting recommendations, encouraging cooperation, monitoring and continuity of the effort made, monitoring the non-competition of the regions. only by taking such measures will our union be able to look to the future with greater optimism.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i speak on behalf of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe. mr president, commissioner, the outpouring of solidarity following the tsunami disaster that occurred the day after christmas was perhaps even more pronounced among the seafarer community, who were more aware than others of the consequences for people whose majority lives depended on the resources of the sea. in this connection, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. it is to this end that commissioner borg and his services, after visiting the field, are proposing to us today that we approve the regulation to allow these possible transfers. this announcement has caused the emotion - which my colleague stevenson has just mentioned - of some of my colleagues, who are alarmed at the idea that europe is going to give itself a good conscience by simply shipping its old ships to people who have no use for them and who are thus deprived of the means necessary to revive their economies. of course, this is not the commission's plan, which has sent the necessary experts to analyse the means of reconstruction in the medium and long term in the devastated countries. the question here is therefore, in the short term, that is to say, in the next few months, to authorize the transfer of a few dozen boats adapted to the needs of the local populations and thus requested by their authorities. these boats will be less than 40 feet long, you know, and they must be less than 20 years old. before approving, as i hope, the commission's proposal, parliament wanted to clarify the conditions for this transfer by means of a number of amendments, which, in particular, can only be carried out after a study by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, the fao - you mentioned this, madam commissioner. the commission has the necessary expertise and authority and is responsible for coordinating aid from around the world. the amendments also aim to make it clear, by means of new recitals, that this is obviously only a possible supplement to the granting of funds for the reconstruction of industries and infrastructure in the sector.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission's desire, which is certainly commendable, to transfer community vessels for the purpose of destroying the asian countries affected by the tsunami is to its credit. the european union must show solidarity in the face of major natural disasters. however, like my colleagues, i would like to express my concern about this type of approach. there is a real risk that the vessels sent to asian countries will not be adapted to the fishing customs and environment of those countries. worse, they could be a nuisance. in addition to the tragedy of the tidal wave, there is the problem of unsuitable and abandoned ships polluting the coasts of these countries. my other concern is the cost of transport. the european commission estimates the cost of transfers of fishing vessels from the european union to the countries affected by the tsunami at about eur 50 000 per vessel. in that case, would it not be better to give the money directly to the countries concerned, so that they could build many more boats that respect their traditions, especially since the ngos that are in contact with the fishermen have told us that a boat built by them costs about 1 200 euros? i therefore believe that europe's action must be accompanied by two conditions. the request for transfer of fishing vessels must come from the asian countries themselves; it seems that neither indonesia nor sri lanka are interested in this. furthermore, fao has not received any request for such transfers. i would also stress that the transfer of vessels must be only part of our efforts. the community funds for humanitarian aid must also be used for the reconstruction of the fisheries sector. for example, assistance could take the form of sending experts and fishermen to help rebuild local fishing infrastructure. the fao report, which we are awaiting in early march, will be fundamental in defining the strategy to be followed at community level.
in order to make things clear, i would like to ask mr salafranca if he would be willing to reiterate his request to the presidency to continue its efforts to support the brazilian initiative on discrimination based on sexual orientation and identity by obtaining support from other countries for a resolution on this issue. is that right? does he want to recall the terms? if the first part is removed, the second part must be restated.
mr president, i would like to see amendment no 15 considered as an addition. in that case we could vote for it, otherwise we will vote against it.
yes, mr president, we would like to see amendment no 21 as an addition. in that case we could vote for it, otherwise we vote against it.
mr president, with this resolution on human rights we have examined the situation in a very large number of countries in the world, which are mentioned in the united nations report. there are so many of them i couldn't count them. and then again! in a recital to the resolution that was adopted, there is concern that there are not enough of them! the impressive list of these countries does not include any member state of the union. this is a real problem, ladies and gentlemen, because i think that we should first sweep our own door, for example, the door of the kingdom of belgium, which has recently given the sad spectacle of an incredible judicial saga by a firm directly subordinate to and financed by prime minister verhofstadt. the so-called 'centre for equal opportunities' is headed by a dominican named mr johan leman, a torquemada of a new kind, who, following a scandalous procedure, has effectively banned the vlaams blok, a perfectly legal and peaceful party, for crimes of opinion. this is a real scandal which has never been raised in this house by any member other than the political group in question. in conclusion, what can be said about the situation in many european countries, including france? france, where the crime of opinion is, in many areas, persecuted; where, under the pretext of revisionism, the memory of the crimes of communism during the second world war is forbidden; where, under the pretext of fighting racism, criticism of immigration policy is forbidden; where, under the pretext of combating xenophobia, it is forbidden to claim legitimate national preference; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i will vote against the commission's legislative programme, presented by mr barroso, for the following reasons. there is no mention of the withdrawal of the services directive and the country of origin principle. no specific commitment to a framework directive on public services. no upward tax and social harmonization and maintenance of the anti-social orientations of the draft 'working time directive'. call for flexibility, for structural reforms to take account of the ageing population, which will challenge pension schemes and labour law. weak industrial policy, which provides neither for sectoral plans in sectors such as textiles nor for a strategy against relocations. lack of ambition in development aid, in particular through the creation of a tax on capital movements. it is clear that this programme does not allow the creation of a real social europe and will rather threaten the current european social model. it confirms the ultra-liberal orientations of the barroso commission.
mr president, after almost 38 years of dictatorship by president eyadéma and with the assumption of power by his son faure gnassingbé, in defiance of all constitutional rules and the commitment made in brussels on 14 april 2004 to return to political dialogue between all the forces, togo is sinking more and more every day into crisis and the risk of civil war. the togolese people and the togolese nationals living in our european countries are expecting a firm and demanding position from our parliament and the union. they are waiting for our solidarity and for new prospects for their future and that of their children. this is first of all a genuine return to the sovereignty of the people. there are two conditions for this: firstly, faure gnassingbé must withdraw immediately and without discussion so that the hereditary dictatorship which he wanted to establish by means of a military coup d'état in defiance of democratic principles and the laws of his country and in violation of international rules can be brought to an end. the second is the restoration of constitutional legality and the resumption of a pluralist dialogue involving all the parties, including, of course, the opposition parties. as such, only mr natchaba, the president of the national assembly, would be able to ensure the interim of power in order to prepare for presidential elections in accordance with the constitution. but mr natchaba's return to togo can only be envisaged with arrangements for his safety. in this connection, mr president, i would like to stress the justified concern expressed yesterday in this parliament by a delegation representing associations of democratic movements and human rights associations about the real risks facing political activists, human rights activists and journalists today. my colleague, marie-arlette carlotti, and i welcomed them and listened to them with the greatest attention, because some of these people suffered in their bodies, in their families, abuse and aggression inflicted under the dictatorship of eyadéma. they have made a strong appeal to us and to all the international institutions for concrete and concerted action to restore democracy in togo once and for all. the european union is also calling on the united states to take all necessary steps to ensure that the united nations security council is fully involved in the peace process. our resolution responds to this expectation by mentioning sanctions, some of which have already been imposed by ecowas and others which are being considered by other international institutions. i, for my part, want to stress the need to take targeted measures quickly with regard to the supply of arms and the transfer of money outside togo. it is also the responsibility of the international institutions to take action to ensure the security of the population in preparation for future elections in a calm manner. it is essential that political parties should be able to conduct a genuine electoral campaign; it is equally essential that all media carry out their duty of information.
the situation in togo today must lead our assembly to condemn in the strongest possible terms the coup d'état which brought fauré gnassingbé to power. that is why i welcome the council's statements and the european parliament's reaction today with this resolution. just as we showed solidarity with the protagonists of the orange revolution in ukraine a few weeks ago, we must show our support today to the togolese protesters who reject this coup d'état and who are, for this, severely repressed. the deaths of several people in the demonstrations in lomé are already deplorable. this is absolutely unbearable and intolerable! europe must use all its strength to reject this hereditary dictatorship, supported by certain financial mafia networks, by demanding first of all the resignation of fauré gnassingbé and then the drafting of a new constitution. only under these conditions can free and transparent elections be held, so as to ensure the democratic normalisation of a country which has been drained of blood and impoverished by the dictatorship of general eyadéma, and to enable the european union to resume its cooperation with togo, which has been suspended since 1993 and which the togolese people greatly need.
mr president, i agree with my colleague that we should have a roll-call vote. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i did not quite understand what you were proposing at the beginning. we hope that both the software patenting and the services directive will be discussed during the session. for example, one could be dealt with on tuesday and the other on wednesday, or at any other time, but the inclusion of one should not result in the elimination of the other.
mr president, we do not agree with this proposal. we do indeed want a discussion with clarification of the commission's position on the directive on the liberalisation of services, that is very important. as regards the patentability of software, we believe that parliamentary work should be carried out as normal: there will of course be a discussion in our parliament but in a second reading procedure, since we have just adopted a common position. we therefore do not want to confuse the two debates and prefer to give the necessary time to the discussion following the commission's statement on the directive on the liberalization of services.
mr president, could you explain this again? so you keep the declaration on the lisbon strategy from 9 a.m. to 12.30 p.m., the votes take place at 12.30 p.m., but when is the debate on the detained health workers in libya taking place?
the rapporteur. mr president, it is exactly five years since the european parliament, in an owninitiative report, embarked on a dialogue with the european investment bank. i was already your rapporteur five years ago and can therefore testify to the extraordinary progress made in these five years in the quality of the dialogue between the european investment bank and parliament, in the quality of this dialogue with civil society, in the adequacy of the policy of the european investment bank with the tasks entrusted to it at the outset of the european union. i would therefore like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks on behalf of all those of us who were already here during the previous parliamentary term and, i hope, on behalf of all those who will be interested today in the work and contribution of the european investment bank to the implementation of european policy. i would like to thank the eib's management for the dialogue we have had with them. it was a demanding dialogue, it was a rich dialogue, with real interaction on both sides. we have evolved in our perception of the eib, the eib has evolved in its own perception of its responsibilities. i should therefore like to take the few moments i have been given to summarize the unanimous report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and to highlight the five most important points of our report, in questioning terms of course. firstly, we can no longer be satisfied with the talk about lisbon and gothenburg, we must now try to make progress in the definition of objectives. the eib recognises that it is there to support the policy of the european union; it needs to develop criteria and quantitative indicators in dialogue with parliament. secondly, we in parliament have been among the first to ask the european investment bank to lend to small and mediumsized enterprises. this can only be done through global loans, collectivized funds, lent to banks which themselves distribute these credits. in that case we risk losing control of the appropriateness of these appropriations for the objectives of the european union and it would be necessary to find a way of controlling the use of these global appropriations, ex post of course. thirdly, this policy of micro-credit must be able to extend to a very important area in a society which is both a knowledge-based economy and an ageing economy. i am talking about the third sector companies, which deal with aid to individuals, aid to families. fourth problem: a potential conflict emerged during the hearing we had organized. the european investment bank is making a great effort to provide local and regional authorities with cheap, long-term loans. these appropriations, however attractive, obviously run up against the limits of the stability pact. the tendency to circumvent this difficulty by means of loans to private enterprises but guaranteed by the state therefore obviously introduces a risk of going "off balance sheet". we suggest that the european investment bank should work with the ecb to establish ethical rules. finally, a final point: in the first version of my report, we included criticism in the press, from a certain press, mainly outside the european union, against possible conflicts of interest among the members of the eib's management, because of their past activities at the head of large private companies that could benefit from eib loans. since then, the eib has provided us with a whole series of new internal codes to avoid these conflicts of interest or at least to take them into account ex ante by eliminating them in advance. i therefore tabled an amendment which, i believe, was adopted by all the group coordinators or fictitious rapporteurs, to thank and record this clarification by the european investment bank after our vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
mr president, commissioner, i should first like to congratulate our colleague mr schmitt on the extremely thorough and balanced nature of his work. we have here a text of very high quality and the amendment work carried out in committee makes an important parliamentary contribution. this is a text which naturally follows on from the work we did in the previous parliament, namely the establishment of the single european sky, and this social dimension was absolutely essential because we are dealing here with a public security service which is first and foremost a labour service. it is the people and their qualifications that make the quality of air traffic control and air navigation, and its quality is, of course, its high level of safety. i believe that all these requirements are present in the text. it seems to me - i do not know what will happen tomorrow after the vote - that he is a bit anti-bolkestein. it is a community regulatory effort. it's a harmonized regulatory effort. it is a mutual recognition effort, with extremely precise work on certifications, on mentions and on mutual recognition. from that point of view, i am very satisfied. in this connection, amendment no 20, which calls for it to be made clear that air traffic controllers will be subject to the social jurisdiction of the host country, is quite decisive. it will be the explicit confirmation of what we all want, namely, work on harmonization rather than social dumping. secondly, we are again tabled amendment no 22 on sectoral social dialogue. i know some of our colleagues say that goes without saying. but we think it is even better to say so, especially since the single sky committee has not agreed to include the workers' representatives and in this area this is absolutely decisive for the quality of the service.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last conference held in beijing in 1995 clearly distinguished between different factors of female pauperism and recognised the gender dimension in the governments' treatment of poverty. the chain of events that lead to poverty is always the same: unemployment, disease, humiliation and then social exclusion. in this vicious cycle, women are more vulnerable than men. women are constantly at a disadvantage compared with men in all spheres of society. since the 1970s, the number of women living below the poverty line has increased by 50 percent, while the number of men has increased by 30 percent. what is behind what sociologists call the feminization of poverty? no one can deny that poverty is a fertile breeding ground for prostitution. and the aids virus spreads more rapidly in settings where women are held in sexual slavery. europe cannot be indifferent to all this. it must continue to play a wise and uncompromising role in order to tackle all the underlying causes of poverty and to put an end to its most degrading consequences, namely the trafficking of women for the benefit of a parallel market which reduces them to being seen as commodities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ten years after the beijing conference, the reality is still unrelenting for millions of women in the european union. three points higher for unemployment among women than among men, 33% of women work parttime unselected compared to 6% of men. for the same job, the pay gap varies from 6 to 30%. one in five women in the eu is a victim of domestic violence, which is a serious violation of human rights and must now be made public. in 20 years, the number of registered prostitutes has increased tenfold, and 90% of them are victims of violence by their clients and supporters. it is necessary and urgent, commissioner, to promote voluntary policies for information on rights and the application of existing legislation in the member states, and to implement an effective policy of control and sanction, because it is not enough to set ambitious objectives to make the same observation ten years, twenty years, thirty years later. it is not enough - and this is true for us - to give ourselves a good conscience for one day a year and then despise women the rest of the time. the enlarged, reunified europe, the land of freedom, the land of human rights, has the duty to conform to its future constitution. (applause) i would like to thank
the president may well feel challenged by what you have said but i will now turn the floor over to mrs batzeli who is the last speaker on the list.
thank you, commissioner. i have received, in accordance with rule 108, six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs ilda figueiredo (a6-0035/2005) on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs on the social situation in the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the long debate we have just had on this women's day on the situation of women should have its place in this debate on the social situation in europe, since the issues are so interrelated and women are the first victims of a much more general situation. the social balance sheet of the european union for 2004, which we are examining today and which is the subject of the report before us, is alarming. mass unemployment, social inequalities, instability and insecurity have developed over the past twenty years. although social development and the fight against poverty are common objectives of the member states, it is clear that the laws of the market are now being developed against people and that more than 70 million european citizens are now at high risk of poverty and insecurity. the question before us is simple: are we going to promote social equality, equal development or are we going to let free competition deteriorate the european social situation? it is to this question that we must respond by adopting a social agenda that takes concrete steps to deal with the problem. i do not have time to go into detail, but i would like to indicate at least two priorities: we must move towards upward harmonization of social situations and not introduce social dumping through directives; we need a sharing of wealth which allows for solidarity and not competition between poor and rich regions!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of the european social model, which is being threatened by the directive on working time or the directive on services, at a time when the problems of poverty, social exclusion and quality of life are more acute in a europe of 25 countries. the european union of 25 is clearly more unequal economically and socially than when it was 15. that is why we must now, more than ever, promote real social cohesion on our continent. defending a european social model that would be a sign of a europe of excellence is not defending the status quo. on the contrary, we must take advantage of enlargement to reaffirm the social and employment policies which can characterize the european union and also serve as an example for other regions of the world. what would greater competitiveness mean without a fair social policy? what would better growth mean if it did not benefit the majority? it is not necessary to prove this: everyone knows that policies which promote social cohesion are decisive factors in economic dynamism. on 22 and 23 march, the heads of government will take a crucial decision on the future of europe by adopting a strategy that will set the agenda for economic development for five years. they cannot ignore the fact that high social standards must be part of a winning economic perspective because they are also indispensable to a europe of the peoples.
member of the commission. let me just make a very brief comment on the debate. it is clear that the problems which have been formulated are the problems which are touched upon in the texts and documents presented by the european commission. these are texts in which we seek answers to the problems that really exist in europe. i am sure that the reformulated lisbon agenda, linked to the social agenda, contains solutions that are capable of bringing us forward. it is absolutely clear that europe needs growth, it is also absolutely clear that europe needs social responsibility, and it is absolutely clear that there are inseparable links between these two elements, that neither of them can be taken out of context.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today.
the next item is the report (a6-0045/2005) by mr sánchez presedo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a council regulation applying a system of generalised preferences. i now give the floor to mr mandelson on behalf of the commission.
ladies and gentlemen, the sitting department has informed me that we are very late and has suggested that i should extend this debate for about ten minutes until all the speakers speaking for their groups have spoken. so i'm going to ask you to be patient and listen for ten minutes. i thank you in advance for the respect you will show to the colleagues who will be speaking.
the debate on mr sánchez presedo's report will resume at 9 p.m. this evening, since at 3 p.m. we will continue our work with a statement by the council and the commission on the non-proliferation treaty and nuclear weapons in north korea and ireland.
president of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. mr president, i would simply like to draw the attention of this house to the importance of this document as we are about to approve this procedure. this is an agreement at first reading in a codecision area. clearly, this is a trend which is bound to develop and care must be taken to safeguard the rights of our parliament in such a situation. in this case, we have, in a sense, served as guinea pigs. the commission document was voted by parliament in a version which was not the one adopted by the council on the grounds that the legal linguists had intervened after parliament's vote. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our colleague richard corbett was given an own-initiative report in the previous parliament to validate the right way of proceeding in such cases. i hope that parliament will be able to adopt a report on this very soon, because we need additional weapons to confront the council and the commission in cases of agreement at first reading.
in writing. relocation, unemployment and social decline. the picture which mrs figueiredo paints of the social situation in europe is correct. but it does not expose the causes of evil and therefore does not offer a solution. this disaster is the result of the europe of brussels and maastricht, which, remember the promises of 1992, was supposed to bring prosperity, growth and employment. but the worst is yet to come with the european constitution institutionalizing the principles of free world trade. the bolkestein directive, which obliges our service companies either to relocate or to close their doors, foreshadows what this europe will be: anti-social because it is anti-national. what can i do ? building another europe, based on common sense principles: community preference and the restoration of our customs protection, the solution of the immigration problem, respect for national sovereignty and therefore for france the maintenance of its social protection system and its public services, the refusal to accept non-european countries, such as turkey. but before that, the french will have to vote on 29 may in self-defence and say no to chirac's referendum.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, since our debate two weeks ago, the situation in lebanon has been constantly changing under the pressure - everyone has said so, everyone has it in mind - of a people almost entirely united, without regard to origin or religion, who continue to demand freedom of thought and life. after the resignation of the karamé government and the joint statements by presidents al-assad and lahoud on the withdrawal of syrian troops, tens of thousands of them were still there yesterday in martyrs' square, renamed freedom square, to assert their will and to maintain all the pressure on the political staff necessary for the launching of a genuine democratic process. i said that this people were almost all gathered, because there is a discordant note, expressed in the speech of the leader of hezbollah, hassan nasrallah, calling on his followers to demonstrate today, at this very moment, against the un resolution, to protest shamelessly against foreign interference and to, i quote, "continue the resistance against israel". it is this last part of the speech which particularly concerns me because it expresses a willingness, which i hope is a minority, to oppose the very fragile resumption of peace negotiations between israel and palestine. we are a number of people who will be travelling to cairo on friday to take part in the plenary session of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. we are aware of the absolute need to strengthen the position of the palestinian leader mahmoud abbas in his courageous will to fight against the continuation of violence and to achieve, with israel, a lasting ceasefire as a first step. if it should appear that hezbollah is determined to obstruct this process, it would be up to you, mr president-in-office of the council, to draw the consequences, going so far as to put this movement on the list of terrorist organisations. i hope that the council will not be led to this extreme, wanting to continue to believe that the immense desire for peace will prevail.
for the greens/efa group my group will be happy to sign and vote on the resolution which was prepared this morning and which sets out a number of positions which are extremely important to the european parliament. they have been supported and stated by you, mr president of the council and mr commissioner. we welcome, encourage and learn from these popular demonstrations - today in beirut, yesterday in kiev - which appear to be the strongest guarantors of the democratization process from the moment when the populations feel and know that they can count on international support. this is a lesson we must learn and draw from it for the future. we too, with these demonstrators, with this united lebanese people, are waiting for clear answers to the investigations being carried out - fact-finding missions sent by mr kofi annan, investigations carried out by the lebanese authorities - to find out exactly who is responsible for this heinous act. we have also heard statements from the lebanese and syrian presidents and we expect more. indeed, even though this is provided for in the ta'if agreements, why exclude the security services from this withdrawal plan? we need the syrian services in lebanon to evacuate the area. today we must say that the continuation of this process of democratization is the best guarantee of stability, and we have said how crucial this stability is in the region. we expect a great deal from this process of democratization and the commission cannot ignore, in the report it is preparing on all aspects of the situation in lebanon and relations between the european union and that country, a number of issues which are fundamental for the future of democracy: the reintroduction, for example, of the death penalty; the many tens of thousands of people who have disappeared in lebanon; that state's accession to the international criminal court, which was born of the rome statute; accession to the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees; the resolution of the palestinian refugee case; the need to bring the situation in lebanon under control and to ensure that the palestinian refugees are not subject to arbitrary arrests. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. so there is a lot of hope behind this situation and i am sure that we will encourage it with this resolution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my deepest indignation and condemnation of the despicable attack which took the lives of rafic hariri and 14 other innocent civilians. in the face of this horror, i offer my deepest condolences to mr hariri's family and to the families of the other victims. i hope that, in accordance with the statement of the united nations security council of 15 february, the causes and circumstances of this attack will be fully clarified so that those responsible can be brought to justice swiftly. this attack is aimed at all lebanese, regardless of their religious or political affiliation, in order to create a climate of terror among the population. we must not play into the hands of those who seek to destabilize this country. this event is an opportunity for us to recall the need for the implementation of un security council resolution 1559, which reaffirms the commitment of the international community to the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of lebanon. this implies the immediate and total withdrawal of all syrian forces from lebanon. the international community must remain mobilized and vigilant so that the next parliamentary elections, scheduled for next spring, take place in democratic and transparent conditions. these elections will give an indication of the willingness - or unwillingness - of the parties concerned to respond to the demands of the international community. perhaps the council should take the initiative in organizing a peace conference on lebanon, in order to take advantage of the current climate in the middle east, which is conducive to the settlement of long-standing conflicts. the european union must take part in the peace process in the region and advance the cause of democracy, as french foreign minister michel barnier put it, 'without complacency or arrogance'. let us not disappoint the hopes of millions of women and men.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the fact that the international community is demanding the withdrawal of the syrian army from lebanon. it's about time! syria has occupied lebanon since 1976 and the ta'if agreements calling for the withdrawal of its troops are 15 years old. it is also regrettable that the promoters of this initiative are not the european countries but the united states. the french governments, both right and left, are particularly to blame. by supporting the syrian dictatorship until last year, they betrayed the friendship which had united our nation from st. louis to lebanon and dealt a blow to france's interests in the region. let us not be under any illusions either, the resignation of the karamé puppet government, the announcement of a redeployment of syrian troops, are only one step in a process. the complete departure of syria, that is to say its army, its intelligence services and its 500 000 immigrants, the disarmament of the islamist militia hezbollah, the holding of genuinely free elections, the return to their country of outlaws such as general aoun, the release of all political prisoners and in particular of the christian leader samir geagea, these are the demands of the lebanese people and the conditions which our governments must put to the syrian leaders in order to achieve the re-establishment of lebanon as a free and sovereign nation.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, we are all still here in the throes of the barbaric assassination of the former lebanese prime minister, rafic hariri, which also killed 18 people and injured hundreds more. we are in fact unanimous in our support for a common attitude, which must be one of principle, directed towards action. president bashar al-assad announced last saturday, at the request of france and the united states, but in reality under pressure from international opinion and the lebanese people, the withdrawal of his troops from lebanon in two stages. it's a first step. a first step towards the military withdrawal that has been needed for so many years. it is also a first step by syria towards implementing un security council resolution 1559. we must take this first step into account, but we must also remain very firm and very demanding in the future. let's face it, our road map is resolution 1559 in its entirety. we must first of all ensure that it is implemented fully and rapidly. this means that syria must withdraw completely from lebanon so that it can regain its sovereignty and hold free and democratic elections very soon, as the lebanese people, whose mobilization and aspiration for freedom are impressive, are unanimously demanding. the european union must therefore remain very vigilant in the face of the political situation in lebanon. many have spoken here of hezbollah, but now we also need a government. on the other hand, even if the date of the parliamentary elections has not yet been set, it would be good if they were held under international, and in particular european, observation. it is also necessary to maintain pressure on the lebanese authorities to continue to cooperate fully with the un commission of inquiry, to shed light on the circumstances of the attack of 15 february, which to date have not been determined, and to establish clearly who was responsible for this murder which in reality targeted all lebanese, regardless of their religious or political views. lebanon cannot be associated any longer with the images of division, occupation and violence that have been striking us for the past three decades. the european union must give its full support to the lebanese people in order to restore their freedom, and this is the message that the unanimous parliament must carry with force.
mr president, a minute is not enough for such a complicated matter, of which we know very little. i will confine myself to asking a question, why only blame syria? the syrian guilt is certainly possible, but it is a hypothesis, and i am surprised and regret that everyone, the media, and, alas, all the political classes in europe, from the extreme left to the extreme right, are only focusing on the syrian issue, which is itself complex. there are others. the iranian track, with iran certainly having an interest in diverting attention from syria, the american track, with the united states probably having an interest in cutting the middle east into as many religious or ethnic communities. there are others. why not consider them? who has an interest in the resumption of the conflict in lebanon? not necessarily syria, and certainly not europe, and, mr moscovici or mrs le pen may not like it, not france, which needs lebanon, a christian and also multi-confessional country, which in some ways is an example for the whole region.
mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, mr president, lebanon is writing a new page in its history and in this respect we must not only be vigilant but also play an active political role. i, for my part, condemn, once again, very strongly the use of violence as a political weapon. the attack on mr hariri is thus a symbol of an intolerable escalation. the international investigation, which is essential, must shed light on the responsibility of those who seek to destabilise lebanon and create a climate of terror. i would like to commend the mass mobilization, the popular fervor of the lebanese people, of all faiths, in favour of the full sovereignty of their country. they expect the european union to support their fight and we must not disappoint them. as such, full and rapid compliance with resolution 1559 is, of course, a key priority. yes, every effort must be made to restore a strong, democratic and sovereign lebanese state and to disarm all armed militias. the european union must not forget that the golan heights and the sheba farms are a matter of national security. no, the situation in lebanon must not be disconnected from the general situation in the middle east. the comprehensive and just resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict is essential and we must support the new palestinian leader. yes, the question of the future of the palestinian refugees in lebanon and elsewhere is a crucial one: the question of their return must be integrated into a comprehensive settlement. the successful experience of the palestinian vote also illustrates the relevance of the presence of european observers, and i hope that the lebanese government will take up this extended hand. in this sense, i support the commission's exploratory initiative. finally, i stress the need to offer a positive outcome and a prospect of progress to the whole region. syria and lebanon have all the assets to develop side by side, in partnership with the european union, our association agreements and our european neighbourhood policy. it is therefore up to us to take the appropriate steps in due course.
mr president, i can tell you, commissioner, that your directive is absolutely the rage in france. it is the only subject on the agenda of the current debate on the referendum on the constitutional treaty. this is a good sign, you might say, because we are getting some attention. but you know very well that's not the case. the whole of france - one might say - is opposed to this directive and in particular to the principle of the country of origin. as you have just announced, by maintaining this principle you are very well aware that you are dragging europe down and that, in the end, you are increasing the mistrust of our fellow citizens, who had confidence in us, who had confidence after the european elections, to make a people's europe, a social europe. you are raising mistrust and worse, you will take responsibility for france's falling into the no, which would be even more serious. i therefore also ask you, commissioner, to withdraw your proposal.
mr president, commissioner, like all our colleagues, i listened to you carefully. this directive is a great first in the history of civilization, since it is the first time since the law exists - force is enough for the strong, the law is made for the weakest - that a barbaric derogation is thus instituted from the principle of the territoriality of the law. you enter a country; when you step on the soil of that country, you adopt the law of the host country. it is true that in france today this directive is all the rage, to use the expression of our colleague. i heard you. you said, "the directive will not be withdrawn". we have heard in france, in a solemn manner, your colleague, commissioner barrot, declare that the directive is being withdrawn and we have heard the president of the french republic, jacques chirac, reassuring our fellow citizens, explain that the directive is being scrapped. so in france today, when you address... (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
mr president, commissioner, we must have the internal market in services, but we must also make a fundamental change to the directive you are proposing. and we congratulate you on that. what we want is first of all that the scope be reduced, and in particular that everything concerning cultural diversity and social rights be excluded. we want the community method to be applied, that is to say, harmonization before any other principle. and finally, we want the existing community laws to prevail over the new directive, in particular private international law for contractual and non-contractual obligations and everything that concerns the rights of workers. that, commissioner, is the basis on which you could regain the confidence of the european parliament. work with us! you said it yourself, we're going to amend your proposal. we're going to change it profoundly. i challenge you to accept what we're about to propose. this is your task if you really want the internal market in services.
mr president, commissioner, i do not have time to address the unease felt by the internet world over the procedure for adopting the directive on software patentability. the luxembourg presidency had no right to refuse to move from point a to point b and the adoption of point a, but with a debate, one vote against and three abstentions, is almost unprecedented. this picture is disastrous. we have people on the internet telling us they're going to use this to vote against the constitution. it's stupid and dangerous. but there is also and above all the question of substance. we have listened to you and once again we agree with the vocabulary and the written text. you can't patent anything! let's keep it down. however, we still do not find in the draft directive a clear demarcation between what is patentable and what is not. i would therefore ask the commission: do you think that a clear delimitation between what is patentable and what is not patentable is essential to this text or not? and if so, consider that the only possible one - because no other is known - is that of the use or non-use of energies or materials, the reference to technique being tautological and allowing anything.
mr president, i would like to say to mr mccreevy that i still do not quite understand where exactly he is taking us, particularly with regard to this problem of software patentability. mr. mccreevy, in a minute, i can only say this. software is a language. patenting software is exactly like giving some people the ability to become the exclusive owner of the words or grammar of a language and thereby prevent others from using it. for example, it allows a company to become the exclusive owner of the commonly used method of closing a file by clicking on the upper right corner of its image on a computer screen. this is absurd, software should be protected by copyright like all languages. it is copyright which constitutes the legitimate protection of software, the protection which will safeguard the freedom of small creators.
mr president, i regret, commissioner, that you have not made the gesture of putting forward a new proposal. i regret that you have not made it clear to our parliament that you wish to challenge the principle of the country of origin in a profound way. if you had done so, you would have shown that the commission is capable of listening to the expectations, fears and questions of our fellow citizens. i regret that and i think it is a missed opportunity for the commission. i hope that our parliament will be able to conduct the substantive debate tomorrow. we will try to live up to our responsibilities as elected representatives and not disappoint the expectations of our fellow citizens, expectations of a europe which must not only be a market but also and above all a union of men and women. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr antolin sánchez presedo, on his excellent work in the area of greater transparency, clarity and, above all, efficiency in the system of generalized preferences. i would also like to highlight the remarkable progress made by this new regulation, not only in terms of simplifying the number of schemes, while concentrating the benefits of the gsp on those countries which need it most, or in terms of encouraging compliance with sustainable development and good governance practices, but also in terms of the rapid adoption of the new regulation, in order to provide additional trade support to the countries affected by the tsunami as soon as possible. on this last point, however, i remain concerned about the capacity of the beneficiary countries, and particularly those affected by the tidal wave, to be able to carry out quickly the administrative procedures necessary to benefit from the new system. will the commission have enough time to properly assess the requests from the countries concerned? the rapporteur's proposal for a transitional period until january 2006 seems to me the most reasonable one in this respect, especially when we know that these long and complex procedures have always limited the use of the scheme by poor countries. the european union must give priority to harmonizing the rules of origin at international level, particularly within the wto, even though i welcome the greater flexibility provided for in the text. developing countries have to adapt to the specific rules of origin of each country which gives them a preferential system, which makes the procedures very complicated and expensive, to the point of sometimes losing all commercial value. i would also like to stress that parliament asks the commission to monitor very closely the application of the new system in order to determine whether it is achieving the objectives set for it, and this country by country. the commission must regularly assess the system, monitor its implementation and keep parliament informed, which has not been done in the past. i would like to end by saying that the gsp is not one of the instruments designed to promote the development of the poorest countries and their full integration into international trade. if we really want to help poor countries to benefit from globalisation, we need to rethink the rules of global trade as a whole in a more equitable way, linking trade and sustainable development in our thinking.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work, which, as our colleague mr arif said, is aimed at simplifying and making the generalized preferences system more efficient. but i would like to thank mr sánchez presedo in particular for having taken into account in his approach the impact of the 'everything but arms' initiative in the sugar sector, in particular, in the context of the forthcoming reform of our common market organization. the recent example of the balkans has shown that unlimited access to the european market can sometimes have the disadvantage of contributing to the development of illegal triangular trade, which in the case of the 50 least developed countries would probably generate a massive influx of sugar on the european market. the reform of the sugar cmo therefore provides that european countries will now experience fluctuations and will therefore be subject to market fluctuations, a significant increase in the supply of sugar will cause a sharp fall in prices in the union, thus reducing the economic interest of the 'everything but arms' initiative for the least developed countries. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the development of the common agricultural policy, in particular by providing for the setting up of a common organization of the market in cereals and the establishment of a common organization of the market in milk and milk products. the economic survival of the least developed countries depends on this remarkable progress, which is due to the foresight of the rapporteur. it will give them time, in line with the reform of the sugar cmo, to modernise their production structures to adapt to the new european situation. it is therefore imperative that the european parliament votes on this text to take account of the specificity of certain sectors and for the generalised system of preferences to really fulfil its primary objective, which is the development of the countries which need it most.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as markus ferber has just said, the salvador garriga polledo report does not really pose a problem, since we knew that, given the changes made to the commission, we would probably have to go through an amending and supplementary budget. i should like to begin by making a few remarks on the anne jensen report on the brs for the european parliament. it is a fact concerning the budgetary estimates for the running costs of our parliament. we can only worry that these forecasts may have been distorted on such important items as the expenditure forecasts for civil servants' salaries and the forecasts for real estate expenditure. the recommendations of our rapporteur calling for greater vigilance by our administration are a blow to common sense. in this respect, we are also respecting our commitment to budgetary consultation, an act which always leaves available and always possible the expenditure envisaged in the 2005 budget, and even to finance the arrival of bulgaria and romania in our union with non-allocated expenditure. there is therefore no reason for us to oppose this management act. as regards the report on the guidelines for expenditure by the other institutions which mr dombrovskis is presenting to us today, i should like first of all to thank him for the excellent work he has put before us and for the speed with which he has enabled us to debate and vote on these guidelines at this march part-session. in the tradition of our budgetary guidelines in this area, it is essential that all the institutions continue this effort to complete the enlargement with bulgaria and romania, which the 2006 budget should allow. we share the concerns of our rapporteur. only a last-minute controversy over the provisions to be implemented at the court of justice will lead my group to examine more closely some of the solutions proposed in mr deprez's report. the report by mr dombrovskis, reinforced by the previous report by mrs jensen, recalls that parliament's budget must enable it to acquire additional means of work which would enable us to respond better to the scale of our task and to the expectations of the citizens. in our view, the reduction of a parliament's budget below the 20% agreed cannot be envisaged until the end of the policy of acquiring different places of presence and work of parliament. but above all this budget is indispensable for parliament to strengthen the means of interpretation and translation made available to the various committees. i would also like to draw your attention to the need to increase professional support for members. the sums allocated to each member for his staff are really insufficient in view of the complexity of the new powers of our parliament. moreover, the lack of status of our assistants is a situation that is completely unworthy of a political institution whose projects focus on a society of innovation and respect for human rights. having a professional status is a right for our assistants, but giving our assistants a status is a duty for the legislators that we are. i also think we should think about the problem of the status of members of parliament. so when i hear some members say that it is difficult for them to access a pension scheme because of the cost of some of these schemes, i think that is completely unworthy of the democratic institution that we are. on the other hand, like anne jensen, i would like to draw attention to the communication policy difficulties we face as a parliament. this policy must be strengthened and, although new means are indispensable, new techniques and a new approach to this communication are becoming a priority for us. we know how essential this information of the citizens is when the draft constitutional treaty is being ratified by referendum or by parliamentary vote. but we must put in place a simple, daily and effective information that can relay, decentralize the interest of citizens in relation to the work we do here. we have a priority here, which must be reflected not only in figures in a budget, but in the successful professional work of parliament's ad hoc services. it is therefore clear to us that the idea of reducing parliament's budget below 20% is not acceptable in view of our commitments and, above all, the expansion of our powers. until we have the means to do our job effectively, we cannot go back on this principle, which is essential to our role and therefore to european democracy.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we now know that the origin of our resolution was clearly unfounded, but we take this opportunity to return to the framework decision on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human organs and tissues. it should be remembered that article 3 of the charter of fundamental rights calls for a ban on making the human body and its parts as such a source of profit. the removal of eggs is not trivial and involves extremely heavy and painful treatments. and when a woman is forced to sell her eggs, especially because of poverty, she becomes easy prey for organized crime networks. egg donation, like organ donation in general, must be very carefully regulated and monitored to protect people in vulnerable situations and thus avoid the exploitation of human beings for their cells. i regret that the framework decision on the prevention and control of trafficking in human organs and tissues, which was taken on the greek initiative, has not yet been adopted by the council. this framework decision prohibits trade in organs and tissues of human origin and also clearly defines the offences, so that trafficking in organs of human origin can be punished. divergences between national laws create a favourable environment for criminal networks to exploit these differences. we therefore ask the commission what measures are in place and what measures are being considered to prevent a new form of exploitation of women's bodies.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in march 2000, the heads of state or government of the union and the commission wanted to prove that social policy could be achieved by liberal means. their overriding goal of moving towards full employment by 2010 had raised some real hopes. five years later, the findings are harsh. unemployment is still, on average, around 9% in europe, where precariousness is rampant. in the union's largest economy, germany, which holds the absolute record for exports, the figure of five million unemployed has been reached. to meet the lisbon target of 70% employment by 2010, 22 million more jobs would need to be created over the next five years at the current rate. hard to imagine when the european central bank just cut its forecast for euro area growth to 1.6% this year, and countries like italy and the netherlands are on the verge of recession. but things are not going badly for everyone. the economist acknowledges, and i quote, "an explosion in corporate profits". their share of gross domestic product in europe, as in asia, the british newspaper points out, has reached a level not seen for 25 years. the employees, he said, were the big losers. who's talking about that here? the atd quart monde association, for its part, regrets that nowhere in its communication of 2 february does the commission mention the objective of eradicating poverty, which today affects 68 million people in the union. do you not think that such a radical divorce between the objectives set out yesterday and the results achieved today would warrant serious reflection on the relevance of the liberal dogmas which have served as the foundation of the lisbon process from the outset? errare humanum is, perseverare diabolicum. it is the same as saying that the devil is a liar. what messages are being sent from brussels to our fellow citizens every day? the commissioner for regional policy, danuta hübner, wants to 'facilitate relocations in europe'. the commissioner for employment and social affairs, mr pidla, said: 'our aim is above all flexibility'. the vice-president responsible for industry, mr verheugen, says in the french press, and i quote, 'with the lisbon strategy, there were so many priorities that there were none. this time we want a concrete action plan focused on competitiveness". the commissioner for competition, nellie kroes, said that she wanted to put an end to regional state aid in the 15 former member states. and mr mandelson, the trade commissioner, reminded the member countries of their duty to, quote, "continue to reform their labour market and welfare systems". mr mccreevy, the commissioner responsible for the internal market, deserves special mention. he also called for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism and for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution. finally, he spoke at the european policy forum in london in the most frankly anglo-saxon terms, and i quote mr mccreevy. we should remember that the internal market programme is by far the greatest deregulatory exercise in recent history. this is what mr barroso calls a new impetus for growth and jobs. do you not feel that the threshold of an overdose of liberalism is approaching irrepressibly and that the rejection of this model will sooner or later come back like a boomerang on the eu's governing bodies in one form or another? my group is fighting precisely to help this current to speak out not against europe - as it may be - but for its profound transformation. that is why we obviously cannot agree to the compromise resolution before us today. that is why we have tabled an alternative text. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr vice-president, i should like to begin by thanking my co-rapporteur, mr klaus-heiner lehne, for the work we have done together in preparing the resolution which will be put to the vote in parliament today. i am also glad to hear the president and vice-president of the commission echoing what our resolution says. the european union has, in recent years, adopted a currency, expanded, adopted a draft constitution; basically, she set her framework. now the content of its policies is not up to the expectations of its citizens. that is why it must focus on growth, employment, social and territorial cohesion, not only because that is the very purpose of this european construction - now that peace is assured - but also because that is the condition for citizens' support, as martin schulz said, for the political projects for the construction of europe. we therefore think it is important to say that the lisbon strategy must be the union's priority over the next five years. we believe that this is the right strategy, provided that it is taken seriously, that is to say, that it is actually implemented in the member states in the three dimensions defined at the summit in 2000 under the portuguese presidency. our aim must be to focus on european competitiveness and growth, based on the elements of the european model and not - as we sometimes feel you were doing, mr president, when you spoke of your three sons - by contrasting one of the three sons with the other two. we believe that economic competitiveness can only be achieved by taking equal care of social and environmental issues. we do not believe that europe has a future as a low-cost competitor. i am glad to hear you speak of the need to focus on excellence, on the quality of training of the workforce, on human capital, on research, on the quality of infrastructure and public services. these are the assets that will make investors invest in the european union. it is because the products of the european union will incorporate more technology, know-how and eco-innovation that they will find their place on world markets. it is because we will be reviving growth on this basis that we will have the means to effectively finance a high level of training, redistribution and social cohesion within the union, and in particular the enlarged union. so there is a battle to be fought, a clarification to be made. in fact - and i am glad that we have managed to avoid these pitfalls in this parliament, in the main, through our draft resolution - some people would like the lisbon strategy to be reduced to a kind of magic recipe, a programme of liberalization in all directions: liberalization of the services market, liberalization of the labour market, liberalization of pension systems. as if that alone was enough to ensure the revival of european growth and competitiveness. not only is it a little short, but i think it's completely off topic. europe needs reforms and we agree. it needs adaptation and a more dynamic economy, but it also needs investment, it needs to revive domestic demand, it needs to coordinate its efforts on what can make tomorrow its wealth and its chance in international competition. that is why our resolution insists on financial perspectives consistent with the lisbon strategy, i.e. a doubling of the european research budget and a continuing effort in the field of the transeuropean networks, social cohesion and regional policy. that is why our resolution insists on an ambitious social agenda, which must be integrated into this overall strategy, and on the fact that the road map you have presented - the legislative and budgetary action plan - must address the three dimensions of the lisbon strategy. we now feel that there is still an imbalance, that the main focus of the concrete proposals is on competitiveness, the economy and structural reforms, and that there is a lack of incentives, indications and legislative initiatives in the field of social cohesion and the environment. for example, we now want to see a real draft framework directive on services of general interest. we would like to see a reform of the european works councils to say that the quality of social relations in europe is part of our development strategy. we would like to see more concrete initiatives in the field of eco-innovation and we are pleased to see that industrial policy linked to innovation and support for small and mediumsized enterprises is finally on the commission's agenda. that is the message that will be conveyed by the european parliament. i am glad that we have reached a very broad agreement once again thanks to the work of mr daul, mr lehne and mrs thyssen. i regret that a number of other left-wing groups do not agree with us on the content of this resolution. i can understand that there are still differences, but i believe, quite honestly, that we have arrived at a clear, strong message that is in line with the lisbon strategy and contributes to the european social model. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, you know that to succeed, we must first learn the lessons of past failures. however, the lisbon strategy launched in 2000 has not made the progress hoped for. we see that growth is stagnating, that there is not enough jobs being created. the first reason seems obvious: this strategy was too confused, too dispersed, it was like a battle plan without an army. to this day, most of our fellow citizens do not know what it is. europe must therefore play on its capacity to create added value while preserving its social model, through priority action plans with precise timetables. we know that our companies can no longer compete in terms of traditional competitiveness with countries like china or india. our strengths are in innovation, the quality of our training, our environment and the promotion of our know-how. our key card is eco-innovation and advanced technologies, to meet a demand for products with very high added value that our competitors cannot meet. the union must also avoid shooting itself in the foot by continually stifling its economy, which is facing the challenges of an ageing population. that is why we have asked that every legislative proposal be subject to an economic and social impact assessment, as well as an environmental impact assessment. that's what better lawmaking is. to revive the economy, to create jobs, is to strengthen entrepreneurial approaches, by helping our large companies to become world champions and by providing our smes with the means to expand, by offering our citizens a society in motion. let us work together to make europe a centre of excellence, as you have said, mr barroso. to this end, we want a simple, fair and as unobtrusive as possible tax system, public-private partnerships, an internal market without social dumping, a strong commitment to youth through the recognition of diplomas and the strengthening of exchanges, the appointment of a 'mr or mrs lisbon' in each capital and the commitment of the member states to the financial perspective. the world maps have been redistributed. every continent has a beautiful game in hand. lisbon should be the winning number in europe, but let us always remember this quote from churchill, which should be our maxim: 'the fact that the strategy is good is a fact, but do not forget to look at the results.'
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us is based on the necessary balance between the three pillars of the lisbon strategy: economic, of course, but also social and environmental. in this way we will demonstrate to our fellow citizens our desire to give substance to a competitive europe, of course, but also a europe based on social cohesion and on the recovery and maintenance of a healthy environment. the text also sends a number of clear messages which i should like to stress. the text is addressed to young people first, since it encourages the joint initiative of four member states in favour of young people, which is set out in the commission's communication to the spring european council. a second message is that of affirming the role of smes as creators of jobs and sources of innovation in a voluntary and balanced industrial policy focused on the big champions, but also and perhaps especially on these small enterprises which, once again, are the essential element of job creation in europe. a third message emphasizes the clear need for a major push for research across the union. finally, the text confirms a fundamental point to which you referred earlier, mr vice-president of the commission, namely that the ambitions of the lisbon strategy are only meaningful if sufficient resources are put at their service, which implies, as you will have understood, a european budget commensurate with the objectives to be achieved. the future of the lisbon strategy now belongs to the european political authorities, but equally and perhaps more to the national political authorities and to all the actors of economic life in the 25 member states. the success of the lisbon strategy depends on the ability of the member states to orient their policies in the direction it is intended and to involve the people of europe as widely as possible. this association of peoples will be possible only if there is a general good climate in public opinion towards the work of the union and its institutions. the commission must understand this and respond to this expectation. if we are to stand by some of the recent statements on relocations, or the statements by mr mccreevy yesterday in the house on the services directive, then i fear, mr president of the commission, that you will continue your work under the treaty of nice. be careful!
madam president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the two co-rapporteurs, mr lehne and mr désir, but also the group of 33, and i also include the members who are unlikely to take part in the vote. i regret it a little, but i can tell you that the working atmosphere was excellent, that we worked under extraordinarily good conditions and that i was a delighted chairman. the revitalization of the lisbon strategy must be an unquestionable priority and this requires the mobilisation of all the actors concerned. parliament has therefore set up its coordination working party with the sole purpose of helping to improve the implementation of the strategy by making parliament a more readable and influential partner in the process than in the past. among its tasks is the preparation of a recommendation for the conference of presidents before the spring summit. i hope, mr president of the commission, that you will take account of all that has been said, and all the commissioners will do the same. there is one small paragraph still missing, mr president of the commission, which i have not heard, on the coordination of the three presidents. i think it's very important for the rest of the story. i therefore hope that we shall reach a very large majority on this draft resolution today. that is why we must also identify key measures such as the importance of the service sector, special support for private enterprises and also the need for a new regulation on chemicals and the modernisation of the labour market. another important step is to be taken next week, with the first parliamentary meeting on the lisbon strategy with national parliaments to be held in our parliament in brussels under the presidency of mr borrell. it is very important to study and work much more with our national parliaments. our meeting will mark the opening of a parliamentary dialogue on this lisbon strategy. the aim is to coordinate initiatives at parliamentary level in order to send a strong and coherent message to heads of state and government on the eve of each european council. we will also continue our work on the other elements of the mandate received, i.e. working at interinstitutional level for better legislative programming and improving the transposition and implementation at national level of the measures taken under the lisbon strategy. as the kok report proposes, we want parliament to play a proactive role in monitoring the results achieved under this strategy.
madam president, what was pompously called the lisbon strategy is turning into a farce. firstly, the objective of growth and prosperity is clearly not being achieved. at the mid-point, growth is so anemic that the oecd calls the eurozone the black hole of the global recovery, with growth stagnating at 1.7%, sometimes less for many countries, while global growth is 5%, and ironically, europe as a whole is growing at 2.9% thanks to the relative performance of the countries that, precisely, escape the stupid trap of the euro. as for prosperity, for our fellow citizens it is for the moment rather synonymous with precariousness, with a decline in purchasing power, with unemployment, the symbol of which is the eight million unemployed in the hard core of france and germany. the outlook is becoming increasingly bleak, particularly in the euro area. the euro has not lived up to its promises. it is obvious that it is not a medium of exchange, it is not a factor of budgetary discipline but the opposite of laxity. and for our contemporaries, it would be more of an inflationary factor. the stability pact is clearly falling apart. i do not understand how anyone can be a supporter of the euro without being a supporter of the stability pact. there is a contradiction in terms at least on this point; i report to the commission. the lesson of the commission is simple. we must postpone the enlargement of the eurozone so that among the 25 - soon the 30 - there are only 12 countries that are part of the eurozone. this is far from the stated objectives, of course. all this would be pleasant for us - because, of course, that is the number of arguments given to the 'no' campaigners - if we did not play, alas, alas, three times over, with the idea of europe, which has been unfortunately compromised, and perhaps for a long time, in the minds of our citizens.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i believe that with the lisbon strategy we really have what can be considered an added value of the european union, namely a long-term vision, an objective. but we also have what sometimes makes the european union all wrong: high ambitions and means that do not measure up to the objectives we set ourselves. this is what we have just experienced over the last five years. so for the next five years, let's try to change that. that is why, mr president of the commission, mr vice-president, i was pleased to hear from you this morning that we were at the beginning and not at the end of the process of revising this strategy, that we were not waiting for the outcome of the european council as an end in itself. i think that behind the meeting we have today there are at least two other important meetings ahead of us. firstly, the adoption of the financial perspective, and what you have just said seems to me to be in the right direction. then there is the reform of the stability pact, which few have mentioned this morning, and which is contrary to what our colleague mr poettering said when he called for stability and flexibility. but where have we seen that we can rebuild leadership, where have we seen that we can rebuild trust by telling citizens that nothing needs to change except their ability to relax their relationship to work? this is not the way to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. so if we really want to implement this strategy, we will also need a good reform of the stability pact. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. i have received, in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, three motions for resolutions. the vote will take place today at 12.30 p.m.
the agenda now calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes, see minutes)
this amendment is therefore withdrawn in favour of another, on which we shall have to decide later.
mr president, when you call for amendments, you very politely give the names of the groups. i would ask you to note that in this parliament there is no longer a liberal group but a group called the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe.
i am particularly pleased to note this, since the session department advises me not to name the groups as i do, trying to be as brief as possible. so i'll do as you say. (applause) - on amendment no 29 by mr von der vring, which i have tabled.
mr president, on amendment no 29, i wanted to point out an error in some of the language versions. it is the original version, that is to say the english version, which is authentic and which says: 'urges the commission to come forward with an initiative to ensure ...' and not, as stated in the french version, 'present an initiative on liberalisation', because the amendment, agreed by mutual agreement, was precisely intended to remove these words, among other things.
mr desir, i am quite in agreement with you, since the words 'on liberalisation' appear by mistake in the french version. i wanted to make it clear that at the same time as this amendment, amendment no 29, it is obsolete. the texts will be checked later anyway, but the amendment is void as a result of the adoption of one of the two parts of amendment no 5.
on this point, it seems to me that the adoption of the first part of amendment no 5 by the greens does not invalidate the fact that amendment no 29 was put to the vote.
they are the same words, mr. desire, new initiative and initiative. so amendment 29 is dead, but your correction was relevant and we'll be reporting all this in session. - before the vote on amendment no 23
i thank my co-rapporteur, mr lehne, for presenting this oral amendment and, as he has done, i invite parliament to support this amendment. (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
i therefore put amendment no 30 to the vote, which is only part of it. (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
in writing. the system of generalized tariff preferences for developing countries is a system of generalized preference for foreign trade, a customs disarmament of the european union. you claim that this system is good for the beneficiary countries. but you admit that the reform proposed today is not based on any assessment of the functioning and effectiveness of the previous system. the negative consequences for industry and agriculture in the european union are, however, foreseeable: - non-existent or preferential customs duties are granted to more products, exacerbating global competition for many sectors, including agriculture and fisheries. - the market share, beyond which a country is no longer entitled to benefit from customs preferences, is so high that it heralds the ruin of entire sectors of our industry. the textile sector, in particular, will be particularly affected, as it is being hit hard by the end of quotas. - the safeguards are still inadequate, bureaucratic and never applied... but as usual, the commission is concerned with the ultra-tradesman's ideology. it is not by impoverishing europe, by creating unemployment in europe, that the third world countries will be allowed to develop. that is why we shall vote against this report.
in writing. the commission has accelerated the reform of the generalised system of preferences, citing the urgency of supporting the economies of the countries affected by the tsunami of 26 december. the new system is due to come into force on 1 april. but in the face of this disaster, the people and the states of europe have shown that their generosity can be counted on. the commission, on the other hand, intends to make the european industry, especially the textile industry, pay the full price for its extravagance. the textile industry, although suffering from the increasingly unfair competition from china, still employs 2.5 million people in europe and generates a turnover of 230 billion. by requiring a threshold of 12.5% of community imports on these products to deprive a country of the benefit of gsp duties, the commission is imposing competition at reduced duties on indian textiles, which are considered competitive under the current gsp, whereas a 10% threshold would allow customs duties to be maintained, thus allowing for balanced competition despite wage and social disparities. it is anti-liberal to make a part of the economy pay for public aid, and it is anti-social to destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe in this way.
in writing. the system of generalised tariff preferences is over 30 years old. its philosophical inspiration is older, since it actually dates back to the unctad of 1963, which created the concept of compensatory inequalities". what we would now call "positive customs discrimination". apparently, poor countries like peru and colombia have benefited from this by being able to send us their asparagus or shrimp duty-free. even if there were some traffic diversions through obscurity on the original rules. the gsp, like the whole gatt and wto system, is based on an inadequate paradigm: the reduction of customs duties to achieve their abolition. it would be more innovative to go to the deduction of customs duties. the exporter would benefit in the importing country from a customs credit equal to the customs duties borne and deductible on purchases to be made in the importing country. these customs credits could be mobilised on a stock market futures market. thus the problem of economic and social asymmetries would be solved and neutrality would exist in global trade.
in writing. the lisbon strategy had the stated objective of making europe the 'most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world' by 2010. it was a total failure. by contrast, brussels europe has succeeded in making the european union the least dynamic economy in the world, with a special mention for the even less successful eurozone. of course, this is not the fault of brussels. this europe never questions itself. so what do we do to get out of it? more europe, of course. more liberalization of markets, more regulatory constraints on businesses, fewer public services, more european and global competition, less public funding, less social protection... the social and environmental objectives of lisbon, first version, are over: there is room for 'all competition', 'all productivity'. man is a commodity. the market will reallocate it and take care of the unemployment ! what the barroso commission is proposing is a nightmare. oh, of course, the text is very "soft". it is just a programme and objectives, sometimes common sense. but we are accustomed to seeing in this chamber the actual text of the directives which implement these programmes and try to achieve these objectives. the bolkestein directive is a prime example of this!
in writing. we have to decide today on the mid-term evaluation of the lisbon strategy. at a time when 68 million of our citizens in the european union are still living in poverty, we can only confirm the lisbon strategy of 2000 and reaffirm the objective of eradicating poverty. progress has been made, such as the national plans for inclusion, the inclusion of the poverty reduction objective in the european charter of fundamental rights. but that is not enough, we must keep going, we owe it to our fellow citizens who are waiting for our promises to be fulfilled, and i insist that everything be done at the spring summit to that end.
we have now finished with the explanations of vote and i shall adjourn the sitting. (the sitting was suspended at 1.10 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the lisbon strategy, the stability and growth pact, the whole question of economic policy is at the heart of the next spring council. with unemployment reaching 9% in europe and growth forecast at only 1.6% in the euro zone, we can see that we cannot be satisfied with mere talk and that we must take decisive action to restore growth and employment. we need common budgetary discipline. we must make this clear again so that there is no doubt. it is the responsibility of each member state to control public spending, to combat the deficit and to stabilise or even reduce the debt burden. if not, future generations will have to pay the price and the more member states try to circumvent the rules they have set themselves, the more they will destabilize the whole system. if we have rules, well, obviously we should enforce them. without that, it's no use. only after agreement has been reached on these basic principles and common sense will it be appropriate to start thinking about a possible development of the pact. and this development should take account of the nature of business cycles and the necessary distinction between operating deficits and investment deficits. we have another question before us, an even more important one: can we live sustainably with common budgetary discipline, while pursuing different economic policies? well, in my opinion, the answer is no. i think we must urgently decide to coordinate our economic policies, otherwise we will never be able to create our own growth. we are fortunate to have a president of the european council who is also president of the eurogroup. well, let's make the most of it. it is time to put in place the economic governance that europe so lacks and to take initiatives that will finally make a difference. let us propose that the major investments of tomorrow be made now at european level. i am thinking, for example, of defence, research or major infrastructure. we are far behind in this area and i think it is time to put an end to it - or to try to put an end to it. there you go, my colleagues. of course, it will take ambition, will and courage, but i have one certainty: i know that alone, each in our own corner, taken in isolation, we will not succeed. if we want to create growth and jobs, if we want to continue to carry an original social model, then the only answer is: more europe.
mr president, i am addressing the council to ask what it has done with gothenburg and what is left of gothenburg, because in my opinion there is not much left. and if the council were to keep its commitments, it would not, as you have done this morning and again this evening, seek new impetus to overcome the euro-sinistrosis, because göteborg had paved the way and given new hope by proposing, every spring, a special summit to measure progress on sustainable development, mrs wallström knows what i am talking about. what have you done with the enthusiasm that was born in gothenburg to face the new threats, the challenges that haunt our fellow citizens? what are your innovative, binding and concrete plans to combat climate change, to counter the degradation of biodiversity? what progress has been made in four years and what progress has been made towards social harmonization? what is the state of european public services? in the end, i think you have misused the aims of the spring summits, which were to answer all these questions and gradually reorient policies. and now you want a charter on the new criteria! but, mr president, these criteria exist and you have simply brushed them aside, perhaps because they were too restrictive, too embarrassing. the commission has not yet taken account of the biodiversity criterion. there is no need, mr president, to try to reinvent the butter-cutting thread every morning. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i will not repeat the questions which have been put to you. however, it is worth recalling that last year, in april 2004, the european parliament rejected the agreement negotiated between the council, the commission and the united states and took the matter to the court of justice. i would also point out that article 7 of directive 9546 lists the exhaustive circumstances in which the processing of personal data is authorized. such authorisations must be understood as being imposed by community law or by the national law of a member state and not by the law of a third state. in the absence of the opinion of the court of justice, and following the negative opinion of the european parliament, do you not consider that the automatic transmission of passenger data to the us authorities constitutes a violation of the right of european citizens to privacy? i would remind you that the us authorities cannot guarantee the level of data protection that we require in europe and that we also require from other third countries such as australia or canada. in particular, we have no way of knowing who has access to this data. the question should be settled in accordance with fundamental rights and the principles laid down by the european parliament. thus, we should define which data could be transferred in an automated manner and which could be transferred on a case-by-case basis. we want to see a list of serious crimes for which an additional request can be made, a list of the authorities and agencies that could have access to the data and the data protection conditions to be respected. we want to know the retention period for both types of data. while acknowledging that data on the prevention of serious crime should be exchanged in accordance with the eu-us agreement on judicial cooperation and extradition. we want to make sure that passengers have guarantees that they can correct the data that concerns them. do you think, commissioner, that the transmission of data respects the principles of purpose and proportionality advocated by the article 29 working party? on the other hand, we want to have evaluations, we want to have figures, we want to know what the results of these practices are. finally, do you not think that it is all the more urgent to deal with the problem of data protection in the third pillar, with a framework decision? an initiative has been proposed by france, the united kingdom, ireland and sweden on a draft framework decision on data retention, and the committee on civil liberties is currently working on it. we would like to know, commissioner, whether you support it? and what are your plans in terms of data protection? do you wish to make your own proposal? finally, we in the committee on civil liberties need to know on what legislative basis we are to work. and we would thank you, commissioner, for answering all these questions precisely.
on behalf of the green group mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate our colleague on her excellent report which raises the real issues of natura 2000. i am rather surprised - but i do not blame you, commissioner - at the text you have read to us to give the commission's position. i have the impression that mr dimas has sent you to the coal mine and is washing his hands of it, because in the end we learn nothing more than what the commissioner has already revealed to us two weeks ago. the question that arises - and this is the subject of mrs auken's report - is the financing of natura 2000. but in your explanation, once again, the commission does not say that it guarantees the financing of natura 2000 for seven years. when our colleague asks about the figure, he is right. these are not fancy figures, drawn from ngos that could afford things. no, that is the commission's figure, which has estimated the cost of managing natura 2000 at a minimum of eur 6.1 billion per year. i really do not understand why you cannot assure the european parliament that the commission will fully guarantee the eu's contribution of three billion a year. the offer you're making doesn't guarantee them. so today we are no further along than we were two weeks ago and we would like to have a reply from the commission.
mr president, commissioner, despite all the sympathy we have for you, i have to tell you that we are very sorry that commissioner dimas is not here, because at the last part-session in strasbourg he did not give us satisfaction in his answers and we would have liked to express our resentment to him again. natura 2000 is a mandatory policy for the conservation of biodiversity and we have a duty to implement it. the european commission has proposed to integrate natura 2000 into the erdf and the rural development fund for its financing. i think that is a double mistake. the concept of transversality is a good thing, but it is not realistic. the priority of the european union is rightly growth and employment and one may wonder how much weight will biodiversity issues have in relation to economic development projects. it is therefore not realistic to integrate this funding into the structural funds or the rural development and improvement fund. how can the necessary funding for natura 2000 be secured? the members of the committee on agriculture, like the members of the committee on regional policy, believe that this could also affect the guarantee of the funds. so we all agree that natura 2000 will not be properly funded under these conditions. in addition, some natura 2000 areas are neither agricultural nor forestry and will not be covered by the structural funds or the rural development funds. in this case, these classified areas would not receive community funding. how can we explain to the owners of these lands, who have been forced to adopt the natura 2000 classification, that they will not benefit from financial instruments? in our view, only the creation of a specific fund would guarantee that all natura 2000 sites could receive community co-financing. we are asking for this fund to be included in the new life+ instrument, because we cannot talk about biodiversity over a long period of time in the context of sustainable development and dangerously compromise the few financial instruments that allow action to be taken in favour of biodiversity.
mr president, commissioner, mr fruteau, i will be very brief, because i want to give my friend fruteau, who wrote the report, the time he needs to speak. i would simply like to make three points, madam commissioner. firstly, the committee on agriculture and the house, by the vote which will follow at noon, are asking you to manage the market through a quota system and a safety net, in order to avoid a sharp fall in prices. secondly, we hope that this reform will make it possible to set up a market organization which will represent a new approach to our relations with third countries, and more specifically with the acp countries with which we are linked by the sugar protocol. i am against the liberalization of agricultural products at any cost, it is a dogmatism that can only lead to tragedies. i would like to see regulatory tools that will help to stabilise prices in the european union and in the international economy. that is why, commissioner, i think, along with my colleagues, that we need instruments to prohibit triangular trade between competitive countries such as brazil, the poor countries and the european union. this trade, which is now being established, must be monitored in the context of the gsp and the new organization of the sugar market. thirdly, i would like to draw your attention to the difficulties currently facing the community sugar market. i have been informed that the european union has a sugar surplus of 850 000 tonnes compared with last year. it appears that this stock is the result of incorrect estimates of available stocks and consumption in some member states. it would result in unusual flows. in these circumstances, madam commissioner, we should make a thorough study of this illogical solution which the community sugar market is currently experiencing, in order to determine the cause and how we can deal with this problem. that is what i had to say about the three points which concern us. i now give the floor to mr fruteau, who has done a very good job on this matter. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the resolution after this speech, which was adopted almost unanimously by the committee on agriculture. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 february the committee on agriculture and rural development adopted by 31 votes to 35 a common position on the reform of the sugar com. this large majority is a sign of the balance we have managed to achieve, which takes account of the views of most of the political groups and nationalities represented in this parliament. the case is complex. on the one hand, in view of the international economic context, the reform of the sugar cmo is now necessary and indispensable. but at the same time, it must not neglect the place and future of the women and men who depend on the sector in europe and in our trading partners. with this in mind, the draft resolution sets out clear guiding principles: adaptation of the sugar moc to the rules of world trade, increasing the competitiveness of the sugar sector, a social objective of guaranteeing a decent standard of living for the operators in the sector while maintaining their activity or, if necessary, in their conversion, and respect for the principle of community solidarity which takes account of the most fragile regions and states of the union and our historical partners, the acp countries and the least developed countries. to meet these requirements, four main lines must be identified which will guide the future reform of the sector. firstly, in terms of timing: the forthcoming reform must remain in force until the end of 2012 in order to give the industry the visibility it needs to carry out its investments. secondly, the reduction in prices and quotas must be limited to what is strictly necessary to take account of the interests of european farmers. it must also be accompanied by a level of compensation which is really responsive to needs. the resolution also proposes that the quota transfer mechanism, which is unfair and destructive for the most vulnerable countries, be replaced by a specific budget-neutral fund managed by europe, which will make it possible to organise the restructuring of the sector. fourthly, the members of the committee on agriculture finally voted overwhelmingly in favour of market regulation, in particular by adapting the 'everything but arms' initiative in the sugar sector. this major axis aims to maintain the coherence and sustainability of the cmo by requiring that the european union be able to maintain control of the supply of sugar on its market. but it also responds to the repeated requests of the least developed countries themselves, who have clearly understood that illegal triangular trade, which can be promoted by unlimited access to the european market, will not offer any benefit to the development of the economic and social structures of the least developed countries. finally, in parallel with these four main lines, the draft resolution stresses the need to take account of the particular situation of the outermost regions of the union, taking into account their geographical and structural constraints and their specific needs for economic and productive development. the text stresses the major and irreplaceable role played by sugarcane in some of these regions and strongly advocates full compensation for any loss of income suffered by overseas farmers and equally strongly calls for the essential mechanism of aid for the disposal of sugar beet to be maintained. ladies and gentlemen, in view of the current deadlock caused by the commission's radical measures in the council of ministers, only the european parliament is now in a position to play a leading role in defining the terms of the reform of the sugar com. that is the ambition of our text, which takes a position which i consider to be balanced, coherent and voluntary in the sense of effective but supportive reform.
mr president, for reasons of vague compromise with the wto, tens of thousands of workers are about to be thrown out of work, dozens of companies are about to be closed, european agriculture is about to be dealt a terrible blow, and the development of many countries is about to be called into question. but who will benefit from this reform? the farmers? who would believe such stupidity when the gross revenue loss is reported to be 50%. to the consumers? this is doubtful, because a fall in agricultural prices has never had an impact on households' purchasing power. small producers in the south? the experience of the coffee market and of sugar production in brazil can only make us doubtful. on the other hand, multinational food companies have reason to rejoice. they will, thanks to the commission and the wto, be able to put more young children to work in sugar cane fields. they will be able to exploit a little bit more of the suffering men and women, often on less than $100 a month. they will be able to watch their profits swell immeasurably against the backdrop of social disaster. this reform also raises grave concerns in all the outermost regions. our group recently went to réunion, at the invitation of our colleague verges. we have seen that for this island this reform was a disaster. beyond the need to compensate fully, there is a problem of consistency which arises. even though the bulk of the european union's agricultural investment has been devoted for more than 40 years to the development of the sugar cane sector, which accounts for one third of final agricultural production, 25% of electricity production and three quarters of exports, it is proposed today to fundamentally challenge this strategic act of development without an alternative commensurate with the consequences of the situation being possible. the consequences of this reform in all its dimensions must be understood. at the request of mr verges, our group would like the commission to undertake to submit to parliament a study of the social impact of the situation in the peripheral regions. we also want the same type of study to be carried out on a european scale. mr president, let me conclude by saying that we are convinced that the solutions lie in a genuine policy for the regulation of the sugar market, which europe would be the promoter of.
the canary industry is a major issue for the french overseas departments (dom) in terms of social, economic and environmental balance. the sector no longer has room for industrial restructuring and it is not realistic to envisage a global conversion, given the context of international competition for tropical agricultural products. the commission must indicate what measures it envisages to avoid the outermost regions (ors) being doubly penalised by the reform in question. these regions risk being treated proportionately more favourably by the acp countries with which they are in direct competition and their development capacity being limited, even though they do not participate in the community's sugar surplus. the commission must, in its forthcoming proposals for reform of the sugar cmo, transpose the 'specific treatment' promised for the outermost regions into concrete technical measures with financial resources corresponding to the real needs of the sector and the development objectives of these regions. i hope that you will support me, commissioner, in the legislative proposals for reform which the commission will present shortly, so that we can better understand our situation in the outermost regions.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about organic farming, there is a real paradox. everyone - including you, madam commissioner, and the european commission as a whole - recognises the undeniable benefits of organic farming, not only for the environment, biodiversity and health, but also for employment and rural development. however, despite increasing consumer demand for organically produced products, organically grown areas and production are stagnating and still represent a very marginal share of overall agricultural production. we were very surprised to learn of the commission's action plan for organic farming, which we hoped would be particularly ambitious and well-funded. this is not the case, although we are of course pleased to note some good proposals, such as awareness and information campaigns or the emphasis on collective catering and school catering in particular. we could start by restoring the european parliament itself to organic products. so you are not providing special, additional resources, nor are there any voluntary measures - much less binding - for the member states, whereas the need to harmonize the different policies of the member states in the field of organic farming is obvious to everyone if we really want to contribute to the development of organic farming and reduce disparities. we also see no progress on the crucial question of genetically modified organisms, the coexistence of conventional and organic farming, or responsibility in the event of contamination. we are waiting for your proposals in this area, without the member states being left entirely to themselves in these matters which are essential for organic farming. that is why the members of the european parliament wanted a much stronger commitment to organic farming, much stronger than information campaigns, which are useful but which we believe are insufficient to meet the challenges. we therefore believe that a lot of investment is needed, in particular to make the specifications for the different products in the different member states more consistent and precise, to make better use of the rural development funds, by defining much more clearly the share of organic farming. we hope that the eafrd programme for rural development will help to answer these questions. these rural development funds must also be strengthened. but they are facing serious threats and we cannot accept plans to reduce the overall budget of the european union which would risk undermining them. we also want to make organic farming a priority research objective in the framework of european research programmes. we want more support for the economic structuring of the organic sector, from production and processing to redistribution and marketing. without the support of this channel, we will not be able to make real progress. it is also important to resolve the question of genetically modified organisms and to significantly improve controls and the fight against fraud in this area. all this must be done in consultation with the professionals concerned, with the associations, consumers, cooperatives and all those who have been committed for many years to organic farming, and unfortunately without much support. the european parliament must also be fully involved in these policies, and i would draw your attention to the fact that any amendment to the organic farming regulation should also be the subject of consultations with the european parliamentarians. in conclusion, we really need to move beyond the concept of 'niche' when it comes to organic farming. this is not a small, isolated sector that would be for a friendly, environmentally-minded, high-income clientele that could afford to have access to this type of food. we believe that organic farming can be the spearhead of a truly sustainable agriculture. in the context of the forthcoming reforms of the common agricultural policy, which we all know are inevitable, we believe that organic farming can be a model, obviously not reproducible, not 100% everywhere, but we believe that this agriculture, whose merits and benefits are recognized by everyone, must be strongly supported, encouraged, so as to achieve much higher percentages of overall agricultural production. we therefore count on the action of the european parliamentarians and hope that the commission will hear this desire to affirm much more strongly the support for organic farming.
ladies and gentlemen, we shall resume the debate on the aubert report for about 15 minutes so that we can finish it and then vote on it at the voting session this morning.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once men used nitrates, pesticides, herbicides and they were driven out of the agricultural paradise. since then, we can't even eat golden apples. before, with good organic pork you could get tapeworm and parasites, with good jams from grandmothers you would die of botulism. now, because of industrial agriculture, well, we live 25 years longer! we must therefore change this situation, go back to the time of the cro-magnon man, where in the landscapes of biodiversity, the 130 000 organic farmers roam, the 230 000 organic cows live, the 400 000 organic sheep, the 230 000 organic pigs. it's only one percent of agriculture, but it's one percent that changes everything. it's like the red sea parting, muhammad riding his mule, jesus returning at easter, that's what organic is, it's useless, but it makes life bearable.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to make a few comments on the report. first, with regard to public support for sustainable agriculture, the action plan acknowledges the role of organic farming in society. in delivering public goods, organic farmers incur high production costs. they should be entitled to be compensated for income foregone and costs incurred when delivering those public goods. that is exactly what we recommend that member states do within their own development programmes. on the other hand, as stated in the report, the successful development of organic farming depends crucially on customers’ willingness to pay a higher price to have organic food. that brings me to the next point: promotion and marketing. consumers must be given the correct information in order to stimulate demand. the commission has already contributed to organic food information and promotion campaigns. i am fully aware that we need to make use of the best expertise available when taking the further steps set out in the plan. i have a great deal of sympathy for your call to promote organic food for children and school canteens, but want to have advice on this from specialists. we need to be sure that we reach our target groups, and must therefore use the right channels in our marketing campaigns. regarding the internal market, i share your concerns about the obstacles that might hamper trade. organic food that has been produced in accordance with all the requirements of eu legislation should have access to all eu organic markets. the european logo can play an important role in making this happen. at the same time, i see no contradiction in organic producers underlining the region of origin of their own products if they wish to. innovation in organic farming and food processing relies, to a great extent, on research. we have already seen an increase in organic research and there is more to come. however, it is not up to the commission to prescribe in detail the different research subjects. with regard to coexistence, the action plan is not the right place to address this issue, since organic farming is not the only area concerned. at the end of the year the commission will issue a report on the national coexistence measures which will show what further steps need to be taken. the action plan recommends that member states make full use of the rural development policy possibilities available; not only agri-environmental measures, but also investment, extension services, quality schemes and all the other rural development elements that can be used to help organic farmers extend their production. i appreciate the comments you have made and look forward to working with you on this important issue in the future. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the voting session which will now begin.
mr. bowis, this will be relayed. i would also like to ask members to be silent during debates in this house, particularly when the commissioner is speaking, because i can assure you that this is not always the case.
i will pass on this to the sitting, but i would remind the house that we also have votes at the end of the debate this afternoon. i will, however, do my best to catch up, without going too fast. (applause) i would like to thank
the agenda now calls for votes. (for the results of the votes: see minutes)
is there any objection to this addition?
mrs mann, you are not in the least disturbing the president of the sitting, who was expecting it to be so, on the contrary, since i had heard reports to the contrary. i was indeed expecting someone to rise up in the epp-ed benches to ask for the end of their amendment to delete the last part of paragraph 21 to be dropped. is there a member of the epp-ed group who would like to speak on this?
in short, the epp group's amendment no 5 adds the words 'in addition to the representatives of business and industry', no longer calls for the end of paragraph 21 to be deleted and is supplemented by mr prodi's oral amendment. (the president noted that there was no objection to the consideration of this oral amendment.)
in writing. violence against women takes many forms: physical and psychological violence, rape, domestic slavery, trafficking in women and prostitution - they are everywhere and are constantly increasing. in our so-called 'civilized' countries, where the rights of man and citizen are held in high regard, do you know that in france, every month, six women die in almost indifference as a result of domestic violence? did you know that in 2002, the amnesty covered these kinds of violence, but not animal abuse? women cannot be considered less worthy of protection. only a few days ago, police violently beat up women who were peacefully protesting in istanbul. this has to stop. we must tackle the factors that contribute directly or indirectly to making them an object of subjugation as is the case for women in islam. it is intolerable to accept in our territory, but also elsewhere, such archaic and inhuman practices as circumcision, honour killings, stoning or even beheading. this day dedicated to women should not be symbolic, it should be an opportunity for a real awareness of women's rights in france and around the world.
in writing. our assembly has just adopted a resolution calling for the withdrawal of syrian troops from lebanon. that's good, but it's not enough. the restoration of lebanese independence also requires the return of lebanese who have been driven from their lands and the release of all political prisoners, chief among them samir geagea. on the other hand, the majority of the members who voted in favour of a text defending the sovereignty of lebanon are the same who are campaigning for the dissolution of the sovereignty of our nations in brussels europe. a europe without frontiers, open to immigration from all over the world. lebanon lost its sovereignty as a result of mass immigration. the arrival of hundreds of thousands of palestinians in the early 1970s upset the demographic balance between muslims and christians, who became a minority in their own country. the ensuing civil war served as a pretext for syria to occupy lebanon and end its sovereignty. the presence of 500,000 syrian immigrants today is a strong predictor of the country's return to independence. the tragedy in lebanon is proof of this. woe to the people who lose their identity and sovereignty.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, european policy towards china is based on political dialogue and genuine exchange. only through this exchange can we help our chinese friends in their transition to a more open society that respects human rights and the rule of law. this exchange must also be the keyword in our discussions on tibet. the recent case of tenzin delek rinpoche has allowed us to appeal to the chinese government for improved conditions in prisons. indeed, if china is to see its global role grow, it must respect international standards on detention, including in tibet. in particular, everyone has the right to a fair and equitable trial, which is internationally recognised. that is why we rejoice every time prisoners of conscience are released in tibet. we are again calling for the abolition of the death penalty. the european union has succeeded in abolishing the death penalty within its territory. it was a great victory for mankind. we hope that china will follow suit. we want to see a continuous improvement in the human rights situation in tibet. we call on china to ratify the united nations international covenant on civil and political rights. everyone should be able to express his political views freely and without the threat of imprisonment. the european union-china interparliamentary delegation was able to go to tibet two years ago. we learned a lot on the trip. we visited european programmes and we realised the importance of our relations with china and the tibet autonomous province. tibet needs electricity, running water, hospitals. i also hope that the european union will be able to share its experience with regard to the rights of minorities. we could exchange good practice on the rights of minorities to preserve their heritage and traditions and we will need it when we see lhasa being disfigured. finally, we encourage china to continue dialogue with the representatives of the dalai lama. this dialogue must be conducted with a view to reaching a mutually acceptable solution to the question of tibet as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by withdrawing the parliamentary immunity of three opposition members of parliament - including our friend sam rainsy, whom some of us have met - who have drawn attention to what is happening in cambodia and who have denounced the gangrene of corruption in their country, cambodia has once again shown itself to be a very poor democracy, where the autocracy rules arbitrarily over political life as well as economic and social life. it should be remembered, as our colleague has just said, because it should be known, that despite the 5 billion dollars in international aid received over the last ten years, cambodia is still the only country in the world where illiteracy, infant mortality and the number of people living below the poverty line continue to increase. as the un and the world bank have pointed out, the ruling leadership is appropriating international aid, the country's resources, while leaving the cambodian people to sink into ordinary suffering. the donor countries - including ourselves - are complicit in this situation, because there is no control over the real recipients of aid and no account is taken of a regime known for its corruption and authoritarian ways. what about the farmers who have been expropriated for the benefit of a chinese company which, like other companies, is unscrupulously clearing up entire hectares of forest? since 1993, 50 percent of cambodia's forest has been destroyed with the complicity of corrupt government officials. it is time for the european union to support those who are genuinely fighting corruption, for the establishment of a rule of law respecting democratic rules, for example by making the granting of our aid conditional on respect for democracy, human rights and the environment. finally, we must oblige the cambodian leaders to respect and support the democrats, which is the duty of any democratically elected government.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, encouragement and regret are the two feelings that one can only feel after the local elections held for the first time in saudi arabia. encouragement, as this election is a significant first step towards the political democratisation of this country. we must clearly support this process, because choosing between different ballots and then putting them in a ballot box indicates an undeniably positive social development for the saudis. however, not everyone was allowed to make this gesture and i deeply regret it. while this election was held by universal suffrage, women in saudi arabia were denied this right, as they are denied other rights, such as the right to drive. our parliament sent a delegation to the elections and our colleagues on the ground have repeatedly stressed how surreal this situation is for us and how it cannot continue. we are not alone, fortunately, because - and i am glad to say this - senior saudi officials have publicly expressed their desire to change this situation. while globalisation is fraught with threats and risks, it is also a remarkable instrument of openness to others. in the age of the internet and satellites, no society can remain cloistered and blind to the dignity of all. i hope this message is heard in riyadh as well. without, of course, wanting to give lessons in democracy, there is still much to be said about the situation in saudi arabia in respect of religious freedom or about the immense challenges posed by the fight against terrorism in the region. i would like to conclude with a note of encouragement: our political dialogue with the saudi authorities must remain calm and cordial, but it must also be frank. let's have the courage to face real problems and solve them!
mr president, this initiative is interesting, but we in the epp think it would be better to have a discussion with the commission in the environment committee in order to follow the usual procedures and to put the matter before the environment committee. if i may say so, i am in complete agreement with the chairman of the committee on the environment, mr florenz.
mr president, i hope that the european parliament will be the interpreter for the thousands, the millions of textile workers whose jobs are threatened by the abolition of quotas in the wto. the usa did not resort to the same contortions as the european commission in order to initiate the safeguard procedure for chinese textile products. the european commission is telling us to wait. but according to euratex, we would lose 1350 jobs a day in the textile sector if this safeguarding decision were not taken. how many unemployed people must the commission have on its conscience before it finally has the decency to react?
president. - mr president of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, the oral questions put to you by the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs deal with three preconditions which parliament has repeatedly referred to since the treaty of amsterdam set us the objective of transforming the union into an area of freedom, security and justice. we have been convinced since 1999 that this objective can only be achieved if three conditions are met: greater legitimacy, more efficiency and more credibility for our political action. firstly, greater legitimacy means for parliament greater respect for the democratic principle that the european parliament must be more seriously involved in the drafting of european legislation and in the negotiation of international agreements. the european council in the hague decided to move to codecision on illegal immigration, but it excluded - which is rather bizarre - legal immigration, which is the one most interested in among european citizens. parliament is still merely consulted on criminal matters, which is the most sensitive area of the relationship between citizens and the european institutions. the council has not yet grasped that unless this relationship is based on very high standards and a courageous policy to promote fundamental rights, any initiative launched by the union is likely to be opposed by those same member states which are holding back the development of the union. this discrepancy between public statements and concrete decisions is already facing us in the court of justice on the regulations on family reunification, data protection and perhaps, tomorrow, on the asylum procedure. secondly, more efficiency, since most of the answers given by the institutions to requests concerning the free movement of persons, the fight against organised crime and the fight against terrorism are very vague, if not virtual declarations. we have seen this again in the fact that we are still trying to find solutions to border controls, to develop schengen cooperation, but also to prevent conflicts and to promote integration. the absence of clear objectives and priorities leads us to disperse our energies as much as the obvious lack of links with other community policies which are complementary to the policies of the area of freedom, security and justice. another essential element to be defined is the relationship between the european institutions and the national institutions. we will hardly be able to achieve greater mutual trust if we are not able to define the tasks of each decision-making level, the expected responses and the measures to be taken in the event of failure. we must not forget that when it comes to the freedoms or security of citizens, the strength of the chain is that of its weakest link. finally, mr president, we need more credibility. last year the european council faced an impressive rate of non-implementation of the action plan against terrorism and was only able to appoint a representative of the secretary-general, adding, if necessary, a new piece to a kind of institutional meccano that is already lacking in transparency and certainly not in efficiency. to date, agencies such as europol or cepol still have to prove themselves and have difficulty integrating into national security systems. the european parliament has repeatedly called on the council to create credible bodies that are better integrated into the union's institutional framework, but it has never received any truly credible answers. in some cases, as in the development of intelligence agencies, the answers have even been so vague that one begins to wonder whether their design really lives up to the questions raised. i shall listen very carefully, or rather - since i have to leave the chamber in a few minutes because of the french election campaign - i shall read carefully the replies to this debate as early as tomorrow morning. i can already commit myself to presenting to the competent parliamentary committee proposals to relaunch a dialogue between our institutions that meets our expectations, those of our citizens and also those generated by the tasks entrusted to us by the treaties, and which calls for a clear political perspective, not delayed technocratic responses.
author. mr president, the year 2004 saw significant progress for the european area of freedom, security and justice. firstly, with the adoption of the hague programme which sets out the new priorities for the coming years. then, with a council decision of 22 december, which allows the transition to codecision for border control, asylum, immigration, judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation. we can only welcome the fact that the council has listened to our requests and we wish to continue in this spirit of dialogue between equal partners to ensure continuity of the progress to be made. unfortunately, the european immigration policy has mainly developed repressive measures and the fight against illegal immigration. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has presented a green paper on economic immigration. but i hope that this green paper will open up a wider debate on the opening up of legal immigration and not be limited to the needs of the european labour market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must work to find sustainable solutions for migrants that respect their fundamental rights. i therefore call on the member states to allow the transition to codecision on legal immigration. the year 2004 also saw the presentation of the proposal for a directive on procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status. i would like to draw the attention of the council and the commission to our serious concern about this proposal. the proposal is simply a bottom-up approach to asylum policy, allowing too many derogations. in the worst case, it may jeopardise the more protective asylum policies of some member states. i regret that the council has not allowed codecision on this matter and i call on it to take account of the concerns of the european parliament. we want to ask the council where its proposal on data retention is, since commissioner frattini has told us that the commission wants to put forward its own proposal. will you allow a personal data protection instrument in the third pillar? the question is asked. we're hoping for an answer. finally, i would ask the council to decide at this week's jha council to consult the european parliament again on the framework directive on racism and xenophobia, and i thank you for your replies.
mr president, i would like to express my surprise at the fact that your remarks - whether those of the commissioner or those of the president-in-office of the council - have given little attention to the external dimension of asylum and immigration policy. you are aware that the european parliament decided to discuss the situation in lampedusa and the camps in libya in its emergency resolutions on thursday, that the delegation for relations with the maghreb countries and the arab maghreb union (including libya), which will be visiting libya next week, has decided to visit a reception centre for foreigners and that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs is considering a mission on the ground. in these circumstances, i think that the interest of the european parliament, which has repeatedly rejected the outsourcing of asylum and the setting up of camps on europe's borders, would have deserved a more detailed statement from you. in lampedusa and libya, several of the fundamental rights enshrined in both the charter of fundamental rights, the european convention on human rights and the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees are clearly being violated. in these circumstances, does the council intend to demonstrate to the offending state the situation of repeated and systematic violation of rights, since we are today in lampedusa iii, i believe?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur for this excellent report, which i wish to support wholeheartedly. we should have introduced a minimum harmonisation of procedural rights in parallel with the introduction of the european arrest warrant. by adopting this report, we are affirming that the area of freedom, security and justice is not only a crime-fighting area but also a rights area. despite a significant convergence of procedures in europe, differences persist. it is therefore essential to establish common rules guaranteeing everyone the assistance of a lawyer, the right to interpretation, protection and in particular the protection of the most vulnerable. the establishment of a genuine european area of security and justice requires first and foremost the protection and promotion of the fundamental rights of european citizens. we are showing our intention to defend this political vision of an area of freedom, security and justice by strengthening the commission's proposal, which establishes these minimum guarantees for individual rights in criminal proceedings. we also want to ensure the right to legal counsel within 24 hours, the proper information of the suspect, the charges against him and these rights through a letter of rights provided in a language he understands. finally, we must certify the competence of interpreting services and that is why we propose their registration in a national register of interpreters. while terrorist crimes - barbaric crimes - must be dealt with with particular care, the fight against terrorism remains inseparable from the protection of fundamental rights in our democracies. while it may be necessary to make special provisions for suspects in connection with terrorist investigations, the right of everyone must be respected. the establishment of a genuine european area of justice is a priority. improvements in judicial cooperation and mutual recognition require the harmonisation of rights and procedures.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs buitenweg on her excellent report. i think it has shown perfectly well why the questions of freedom and justice cannot be separated from those of security. today, thanks to this report, we have an opportunity to rebalance things, because for several years the repressive aspect of justice and home affairs was the most developed, or sometimes the only one. it is absolutely essential today to go further and ensure that the system of extradition applies, with the same respect for the person, to all suspects, including in cases of terrorism-related crimes. we also need a corrective mechanism for cases where a national judicial system does not meet minimum standards. such measures will thus give more substance to the principle of the right to a fair trial, as guaranteed by the european convention on human rights. these measures are - as has been said before - a late addition, absolutely essential to the european arrest warrant. let us remember - and let us remember this all the more as we have heard a number of rather shocking remarks - that this is not about sparing criminals but about increasing confidence in each other's legal systems to encourage member states to work together. it is an absolutely essential step towards strengthening mutual trust between the member states and the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions. this is an essential condition for the construction of the european judicial area, and i am sure we all want this.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work and also on the fruitful cooperation which has enabled us to reach a number of compromises together in order to arrive at the text which i hope we will vote on wednesday. i would remind you that our aim here is to make up for the shortcomings resulting from the inadequacy of the current structure of cepol to the tasks assigned to it, namely: first, the improvement of mutual knowledge of the european police services; secondly, the approximation of their operating methods and finally the development of better practices in police action. i am unfortunately aware of the many differences on this issue within the council, together with the extreme sensitivity of the member states, since even a tiny part of the royal power is the subject of european projects, and this despite the objective sought by all of us of greater efficiency in the fight against crossborder crime. so i know it's going to be very difficult to achieve. i have therefore no illusions as to what the council will do with this opinion of the european parliament, which unfortunately remains purely advisory at the moment. it will take some time before we can make any progress in this area. that is why the european constitution, which i very much hope will be ratified, should help us to do so. in the meantime, however, i call on the council to make every effort to achieve a genuine community approach to police training, because only in this way can we best ensure the safety of european citizens, who are confronted every day with violence and other crimes that are becoming less and less national in scope.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am a newly elected member of this parliament and this own-initiative report is therefore my first report as a member of the european parliament. before i give you the main points, i would like to thank the committee on transport and tourism and my political group, the pse, for entrusting me with the task of working on this very important subject of short sea shipping and motorways of the sea. i would like to thank in particular the administrators of the european parliament, mr ioannis darmis and mr jean préat, and my parliamentary assistants, mr guy caballé and mr alexandre polack. they have accompanied me throughout the consultation, synthesis and drafting of this report. finally, i would like to thank the commission departments, the energy and transport dg and the main professional players in the sectors, in particular shipowners, ports and logistics, who have actively participated in our consultation work. i should like to take this opportunity to express my surprise at the lack of human and financial resources for the investigation of the members of the european parliament. the european parliament, with its continually increasing budgetary and legislative powers, has become the voice of the citizens within the european union. i was surprised to find that a member of the european parliament, as rapporteur, cannot organise observation missions funded by the european parliament other than the official missions of parliamentary committees, which take place only once or twice a year. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the devil is in the details and if the european parliament is to carry out its monitoring work effectively, it should be able to benefit in future from increased capacities of its own expertise, in particular to ensure the independence and impartiality of its members. let me first of all remind you of the context in which the question of the development of maritime transport in europe is placed. in its 2001 white paper on european transport policy for 2010, the european commission recalled the important role of short sea shipping in reducing greenhouse gases and stressed the need to simplify its regulatory framework. it introduced the concept of motorways of the sea, recalling the need to promote massive and rapid shipping lines, particularly to bypass bottlenecks such as the alps and the pyrenees. the european parliament supported these proposals on the tmcd in its white paper report adopted on 2 january 2003. the rapporteur was mr izquierdo collado. the last commission communication published in 2004 that we looked at is above all a progress document; the aim of the report is to take stock of the situation of short sea shipping, the obstacles it faces and the measures taken to overcome them. my report first of all wants to give you an overview of the state of short sea shipping in europe. i would like to draw your attention to two main facts. first, the share of short sea shipping in total intra-european transport grew by 25% between 1995 and 2002, representing 40% of total goods transported within europe compared to 45% for road. secondly, recent data on the environmental impact of short sea shipping show that it has a significantly lower negative impact than road transport. the conclusion of this situation is obvious. our duty is to advance short sea shipping to reconcile environmental protection, quality of life and economic growth. however, there are many obstacles to the development of short sea shipping. i do not wish to give you an exhaustive list of all the obstacles which i have highlighted in my report. i would like to draw your attention to two main issues. firstly, the report stresses the absence of a genuine voluntary policy to attract and orientate the major road transport organisers and operators towards short sea shipping. secondly, our meetings with the sector's leaders have convinced us of the urgent need to adopt effective, clear and sufficient financing arrangements for the actions to be carried out. the various existing aids must allow for optimum complementarity, making it possible to start new permanent lines. in the face of these obstacles, my report stresses the need to address the issue of standardisation of intermodal loading units and to facilitate the integration of short sea shipping into the chain. we also propose to reactivate community thinking on the unification of the legal regime for the multimodal chain. this report was unanimously approved by the members of the committee on transport and tourism. our concerted work has enabled us to reach compromises on crucial points. the report stresses the potential for developing short sea shipping for passenger transport, the possibilities of creating thousands of jobs, the importance of links between short sea shipping and inland waterways, the role of short sea shipping for islands, compliance with community competition rules and, finally, the improvement of the environmental performance of short sea shipping. to correct our missions and for the sake of consistency, i would like to table an oral amendment, mr president, which is purely technical. this amendment is intended to bring the definition of short sea shipping in recital a, where we have integrated passenger transport and inland waterways, into line with that in recital c, where we have failed to do so. my amendment therefore adds the words 'and passenger' and 'or inland waterway' in recital c, so that the definition of tmcd is identical throughout the report. in conclusion, i would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the three main reasons why i am asking you to support my report on short sea shipping and motorways of the sea. firstly, the widespread use of short sea shipping, which would irrigate all sectors of the european economy, would have an extremely positive impact on the development of all regions of the european union and would be a fantastic way of creating hundreds of thousands of jobs on our continent. secondly, short sea shipping is one of the relevant solutions for reconciling the safeguarding of our natural heritage with the economic and social development of our regions. finally, short sea shipping has a key role to play in spatial planning and in strengthening territorial cohesion within the european union. as such, i believe that the concept of motorways of the sea should be firmly integrated into the problem of strengthening solidarity within the union. this is why this report, on behalf of the committee on transport, proposes that consideration be given to the possibility of recognising the status of services of general economic interest for priority projects in the field of short sea shipping, which plays an important role in improving territorial cohesion within the union. i hope that i can have the widest possible support from this parliament on a subject as crucial as the development of short sea shipping and intermodal transport. the european union's policy of environmental protection, regional development and territorial cohesion will thus be strengthened for the well-being of our citizens and future generations. i hope, therefore, that i can count on your broad support.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, yes, short sea shipping must be developed in the european union in the same way as rail transport. it is a question of making it possible to transport throughout europe the goods needed to keep our economies running, while seeking maximum safety for our citizens and constantly ensuring the preservation of our environment. why would you do that? because it is clear that the trucks continue to pile up in the bottlenecks, causing many inconveniences that allow us to observe human exploitation in all its glory. many of the cabotage vessels are often garbage boats that ply our coasts, often in such a state that they do not cause real ecological disasters. this is why only a public service action at european level, including direct industrial and economic intervention, can unlock the situation. the development of short sea shipping cannot be seen as a strategic choice for spatial planning. the growth of short sea shipping must be seen not as a competitive force with the necessary investments in rail freight and railway transport, but as a synergy. i would like to stress that in maritime matters safety and respect for the environment must be paramount, competition secondary. the administrative procedures for cabotage can and must be improved, but there can be no question of skipping everything just to save time. all means of surveillance must be maintained to oppose trafficking of all kinds. in conclusion, mr president, i would say that short sea shipping has a great future in europe if it is the work of seafarers and states and not of large groups whose only motivation is absolute profitability, whatever the economic, social and human cost.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is necessary to recall what a discharge is. discharge should be given to ensure that the european budget is properly implemented and to give guarantees as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of operations. the discharge should also allow the assessment of progress in implementing the recommendations contained in the previous discharge. i would therefore like to express my surprise at the substance and the form of this report, particularly the one concerning the european parliament's section. i do not understand the very unpleasant tone used by the rapporteur and the authors of certain amendments in relation to all members of this institution. the catalogue of reproaches does indeed imply a form of dishonesty, which i will not condone at all. i do not think that the european parliamentarians can be so shamed. i would add that until we have a single statute for members of the european parliament, it is not possible to change the current rules on allowances. is this dump also intended to deal with the issue of tobacco and cigarettes on our premises, which is totally out of the question even though, i would like to think, it is a real problem? and what about the fact that the european parliament's seat in strasbourg is once again being called into question? i would first like to point out that parliament has no competence in this area, contrary to what is stated in the report presented today. in addition to the decision of the 1992 edinburgh european council, at which the heads of state or government unanimously decided to fix the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg for political reasons, this decision was set out, so that it could be guaranteed by the treaties, in protocol no 12 annexed to the treaty of amsterdam. a year ago a similar proposal was made to remove the seat of parliament from strasbourg and transfer it to brussels, and the members of the european parliament, in their great wisdom, rejected this proposal in plenary, as the convention members also recalled during their discussion of the constitutional treaty. the discharge for 2003 must not be an opportunity for the opponents of strasbourg to try to change the seat of parliament once again. this is a matter which is outside the scope of the law and outside its jurisdiction.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission naturally welcomes very much the report by mrs kinnock on the role of the european union in achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs). i would like to congratulate mrs kinnock and the committee on development on this report, which should stimulate discussions and negotiations on the measures required to achieve the mdgs. your report, madam president, rightly stresses the importance of governments adopting strategies to achieve the millennium development goals. it also stressed that the eu's development policies, whose main objective should be poverty reduction, should be anchored in the millennium declaration and the mdgs. the european union's consolidated report on the mdgs shows the progress made in this regard. the european union has stressed on several occasions that the evaluation of the millennium development goals at the un high level meeting in september 2005 was a crucial opportunity to accelerate progress towards the mdgs. in november 2004, the council invited the commission, with a view to the european union's contribution to the high-level event, to prepare specific and ambitious proposals on action to be taken in particular with a view to financing the development of policy coherence for development and the priority to be given to africa. the commission is today adopting a set of communications which constitute its response to the council's invitation. this comprehensive policy package takes stock of the union's development contribution and identifies measures to be taken to accelerate the achievement of the mdgs. your report and our communications share many of the same concerns and recommendations. i would like to mention some of the conclusions of your report which we think are of great importance and which are key points in the package of communications we are presenting. first of all, it is essential, as you have said, to continue to increase development aid. the commission proposes new intermediate objectives for 2010 in this respect; in addition to the public aid budgets, new sources of funding must also be considered as a complement. i also welcome your attention to the coherence of development policies; it is essential to examine how policies other than aid can help achieve the millennium development goals. the communication on policy coherence for development identifies no less than eleven priority areas where the challenge of achieving synergies with development policy objectives is considered particularly relevant, for example in the area of trade - of course - research, the environment, agriculture, fisheries, and so on. important synergies are possible with these different skills. many of the recommendations in your report are included in the consolidated report of the european union on the millennium development goals, for example - and you were right to mention this - the special attention to be paid to girls' education, the need to meet the needs of the most vulnerable groups, especially children, orphans, young women and the elderly. in response to the challenges facing africa, it is essential that development partners give priority to the continent. the european union must and will do more to enable africa to achieve the millennium development goals. africa must be at the heart of our attention and increasing aid resources for sub-saharan africa is vital. the european union must ensure that a significant proportion of additional official development assistance is directed to africa. our proposals on coherence must also apply with priority to the african continent. finally, in addition to all our existing programmes, particularly in the framework of the cotonou agreement, the commission is proposing new commitments in areas with a clear multiplier effect. i think about governance, about connectivity and about equity. preparations for the new york event are accelerating. i thank you for your contribution and i look forward to continuing to work with you to ensure that the european position meets the challenge of achieving the millennium development goals. now, madam president, a few words on the communications which i shall be submitting to the college of commissioners in a few hours. the preparatory process for the september summit showed the progress made in many poor countries and the importance of the efforts made by the international community, and by the european union in particular, to achieve the millennium development goals. all the reports, the secretary-general's report and the report of the millennium project, which was carried out under the leadership of professor sax, also show that the objectives set for 2015 can still be achieved if we want to. but this -- and you said this -- requires a major investment from developing countries, as well as, of course, from donor countries. the european union, the leading international donor and trading partner of poor countries, therefore has a special responsibility towards our own citizens, who expect us to set an example at international level, because this is an imperative of human solidarity, but it is also in our own interest. if we want a more stable and secure world, we must invest more heavily in development. the union also has a responsibility towards partners for whom europe often appears as a model: look for example at the african union, which has taken the european union as a reference. i believe that the proposals i am going to defend this afternoon meet that challenge. these proposals are based on three fundamental pillars: first, financing for development and aid effectiveness; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the question of financing, the european union - and this is my answer to your question - has fulfilled its commitments and in 2006 its aid effort is likely to exceed the collective target of 0.39% of the gross national income of the member states. it is clear that this effort must continue and i propose that the member states set themselves a new individual intermediate target of a minimum of 0.51% in 2010, corresponding to a collective effort of 0.56%. this would make it possible to reach the 0.7% target set by the united nations and considered necessary by the millennium project experts to achieve the mdgs by 2015. in terms of annual aid, this would represent an increase of as much as €20 billion per year in 2010, with eu aid rising from €46 billion in 2006 to €66 billion in 2010. in addition, new sources of finance should also be encouraged. i forget to say that i will propose to the new member states that they should reach 0.17% by 2010 - we are introducing a differentiation because they come from much further away - which should enable us to reach 0.7% in 2015. in addition, new sources of funding must be encouraged, but this should not be a pretext for postponing or reducing the european union's commitments for 2010. the second element is the improvement of aid efficiency, which is another important area of work. substantial progress has been made in recent years in the management of community aid. at eu level, the main challenge today is to implement the commitments made by the european union to better policy coordination, complementarity on the ground and harmonisation of procedures. europe must be much more than the simple sum of the budgets of our individual states. the second element is the use of budgetary aid - which i would like to give priority to - although the efficiency of aid would be greatly improved. but it's not just about money. the real challenge is to manage globalisation through the exercise of solidarity that lays the foundations for a global social contract, which implies not only increased official development assistance but also comprehensive public policies that allow the gains of globalisation to be distributed in a more equitable way. in the same way, this is the first time that the commission - and i am quite happy about that - has agreed to talk about coherence and to identify, in the other areas of competence than development aid, no less than eleven areas which are related to development and which can bring added value to it. i think it's important. i'm going to go with you. this is the first time the college has taken up this challenge and i think it is quite useful to be reminded of it. the third component of our proposals concerns the priority to be given to africa. the reason is threefold. sub-saharan africa is the region most lagging behind. europe is a key partner, and africa is a geopolitical partner that will become increasingly important. the united states and china have already understood this, which explains their increased interest in this part of the world. i propose that we step up our action in areas where there is a clear multiplier effect. three things in this regard: first, in the area of governance, we must support the implementation of reforms resulting from the african peer review mechanism. we must also ensure the refinancing of the peace facility to support the work of the african union and subregional organisations in conflict prevention. secondly, the first, i would call it the political axis in the general sense of the term, the second is the economic axis. infrastructure and network interconnection should be supported on the basis of african union and nepad strategies to facilitate south-south trade. in fact, i am thinking here of really getting the trans-african networks off the ground, as we had to do in europe with the trans-european networks. we must make the construction and implementation of these large trans-african networks a priority and a concrete objective. this is the economic axis. i think about all the infrastructure, all the things that are related to communication, technology transfer, and i go beyond that. the third axis is the social axis. it is obviously the policy of equity. the european union must develop incentive measures and support african countries in their efforts to promote social cohesion, employment and environmental protection. i am thinking more specifically of education, health and culture. i said during my hearing that culture is a much more important vehicle for development than we think and i would like to use it to the full. the ambition of this set of communications is to be able to unite the member states around a european vision which would give the union the capacity of influence, credibility and visibility necessary to contribute effectively to the high-level event of september 2005. i am currently touring the capitals to mobilise national parliaments and member states on this issue. these three communications must lead in september to the complete redefinition of development policy, as i announced, in the form of a new declaration of development policy which i intend to translate into a common european development strategy. what we have been able to do for the common security strategy, i see absolutely no reason why we should not be able to do for development. i would also come up with a real battle plan for africa, articulated on the three axes i have just mentioned. that is the answer i wanted to give, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, mr president. i hope i was complete. if there are any other questions, if i have inadvertently omitted to address any of the questions, please do not hesitate to ask me. i am, of course, at your disposal to answer.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i thank the commissioner for his positive response to mrs kinnock's report. i think it is important to coordinate the views of the commission and parliament and to present a common vision. the european union, you recalled, is the largest donor, with 55% of the world's official aid. so we have a priority to keep and keeping promises is something that is quite well seen in politics. i have noted the increase levels that you have set because, if the objectives are praiseworthy - i will not mention them, mrs kinnock has done very well - they are achievable. 0.7 is achievable and, in the steps you have outlined, we are going to go from 0.51 in 2010 to 0.7 in 2015. i would simply remind you that the increase of 20 billion euros per year you have mentioned is almost equivalent to one and a half european development funds per year, whereas the european development fund is scheduled for five years. so it is actually a considerable amount of money that could be spent if we are willing to make the effort. i would therefore like to draw your attention to four very brief points: firstly, the absolute necessity of policy coordination, which you have illustrated with your eleven areas, also applies to agricultural subsidies, so as not to ruin what we give to each other, but also between european countries, to avoid the healthy emulation that can sometimes be found on the ground. then there is the responsibility of the partners, which naturally involves a requirement for governance, and a requirement for the audit of budgetary aid, which seems to be a good new way, and finally - as you have stressed, commissioner - support for major regional projects, particularly for large trans-african networks. we already have the possibility of using the edf surplus to finance part of these large networks. the third point is the control of public money. it is essential that the money of the european taxpayer be used in a visible way. if we are to be able to ask for more, we must have identifiable and demonstrable objectives for our friends in the european countries which give public money for this purpose. and finally, the private place. we cannot do anything without political security, without legal security, without infrastructure and without markets. public aid cannot replace private sector involvement in development. so let's be exemplary donors, but let's be lucid partners as well.
mr president, to take up an idea put forward by one of our colleagues in the group, i simply wanted to say that in this malaria case we have a unique opportunity to relay what i said earlier about the millennium development goals: the absolute need for the european union to have a legible action, so that our compatriots, who are the taxpayers who feed public aid, can have something to be proud of. we have a unique opportunity here to take the malaria problem seriously and to say that the european union is taking care of it. we have the scientific means, we have the logistical means, we have the financial means, and we would have the opportunity to demonstrate our degree of participation in aiding development and increasing the share of happiness in the world. i would therefore ask the commissioner to consider the possibility, not of us being a major player, as i think we will already be, but of us being, if necessary, a single player.
whether legal aid, translation and interpretation, legal information, protection of suspects or consular assistance, these five procedural rights relating to the rights of the defence laid down in the commission's green paper form the basis of useful standards in criminal proceedings. it is clear that the situation is not satisfactory. i would like to give just one example: here in alsace, a man has been in prison for five months, whereas everyone is presumed innocent until proven guilty, according to article 9 of the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen of 26 august 1789. mr lezeau, accused of racist graffiti in the cemetery of herlisheim, must, from his cell, prove his innocence with the very difficult handicap of a presumption of guilt established from the outset by the public prosecutor of colmar, mr schultz, on the basis of absolutely ridiculous elements. if this report were to be a means of resolving such scandalous and unjust situations, then yes, we could support this text. but i fear that this is not the case, and i believe that this report is only helping to force the establishment of a single judicial area, which is not said to guarantee freedoms better.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i have said on several occasions, following the negotiation of the conclusions on accession with bulgaria and romania at the council meeting of 16 and 17 december 2004, the commission delivered a favourable opinion on accession on 22 february 2005. it is now up to our parliament to give its assent to the request of both countries. in this context, it seems to me important - and i believe mr van orden will share this view - to avoid separating the votes on bulgaria and romania. in both cases, therefore, we must be equally welcoming and this in a very loud way. the foreign affairs committee has also voted very broadly in favour of romania's accession and i ask you today to give your opinion in favour of romania's accession. why do you do that? i do this because i continue to advocate a positive, lucid and demanding attitude. positive because romania's accession is a political will of the european union, a will of the romanians. positive because a lot of effort, a lot of progress on the road to accession has been made and i believe that it has acted as a catalyst for romanian society: the previous government started working, the current government is continuing the task and we are on the right track. at the same time, i suggest that we be clear-sighted and demanding, because let us face it, the problems remain, we know them. much remains to be done in the field of justice and home affairs, particularly in the fight against corruption, organised crime, border control, the recognition and protection of minorities, including roma and hungarian minorities, in the field of competition and in the field of the environment. the romanian government, we will continue to say, must focus in particular on the effective implementation of administrative and judicial reforms, on the fight against corruption, on the fight against social exclusion and poverty, on freedom of information, which is of course crucial for us, on the strengthening of local and regional governance. i would add that there are safeguards or instruments through which we can continue to act. i am thinking, for example, of the possible use of safeguard clauses, which should not be seen as a sanction but rather as a lever for action, as positive pressure to make progress in the right direction, particularly in the areas i have just mentioned. on this basis, the debate in the committee on foreign affairs focused on a very crucial point, namely the role of our parliament. in this procedure for assent, we are concerned with one question: what will happen after the signing of the accession treaty, since the council is asking the european parliament to give its assent to an accession which will not take place for another 20 months? the procedure is unusual, since we usually give it later. many colleagues were moved by this situation. they are afraid of signing a blank cheque, of depriving themselves of any capacity to act in the time between us and actual membership, when the problems exist and may even worsen, and when the possibility of recourse to a safeguard clause exists. it is therefore important that the commission and the council fully involve the european parliament in monitoring romania's compliance with the commitments. at a meeting of the committee responsible, commissioner rehn gave a political commitment to involve parliament in the preparations for the accession of the two countries, and in particular to consult parliament in the event of the use of safeguard clauses. several colleagues have worked on this, we have had amendments tabled on visas and recommendations in the reports on bulgaria and romania, because this is basically a common role for parliament in both situations. president borrell, who has been very active on this issue, has in fact written a letter to president barroso on this subject, asking him to confirm the position taken by commissioner rehn on 30 march, which he did, but i imagine he will speak about it. the president-in-office of the council, mr jean-claude juncker, also exchanged letters with president borrell on this subject. what can we expect today, then, if not a confirmation of this commitment not only from the commission but also from the council presidency today or tomorrow? i hope, commissioner, that you will be able to reassure us on this point so that we can all vote in favour of this opinion. it will then be for the european parliament, in the next commission report in november, to assess whether this commitment has been respected and to draw the appropriate conclusions. in any case, what we want is for parliament to be able to vote on this report in the broadest possible way, to do so with the awareness that this is a new moment in the enlargement of the european union and in the realisation of the common project, but also to do so with the feeling that i felt when speaking with many colleagues, the feeling that europe needs to be protected, that we can vote in safety and that this parliament is also one of the guarantors of this protection and security.
madam president, commissioner, we are a few members who have been seriously concerned for months about the risk of a flu pandemic and sounding the alarm because both the pharmaceutical industry and the global vaccine fund are particularly concerned. we are not equipped to deal with such a risk today because we do not know how to anticipate it. we know that the question is not whether an epidemic will occur, but when. you have given us a number of explanations and when you tell us that it takes six months to develop a vaccine, i wonder if the pharmaceutical companies are really giving themselves all the means to, on the one hand, prepare the antiviral drugs and, on the other hand, try, when we have isolated stem cells, to develop the appropriate vaccines. the european union should provide financial support to both support the development of vaccines and the conduct of studies on them and encourage mass production. this financial participation would be conditional on an acceleration of the laboratories' vaccine activities. the idea of using the solidarity fund is therefore excellent, because it should also make it possible to ensure the equitable provision of vaccines and to involve the member states. in close cooperation with the member states, have we already planned an adequate emergency plan in the event of an outbreak? has the commission carried out simulations to coordinate action with the member states in order to avoid panic among the population, to combat trafficking which will inevitably occur if there are serious risks, to determine the priority areas to be isolated, i.e. the places to apply quarantine measures, to identify the populations to be vaccinated first and to ensure fair distribution of products to all? i also hope that a framework will be considered to ensure the rapid and unhindered export of products from producer countries to non-producer countries. we are waiting for immediate answers, because we are preventing a disaster which would not only be a health problem but also an economic one.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to say to you, madam president, that i very much regret the late hour at which this essential report is being debated. i would like to congratulate mr giovanni pittella on this report and also on the unusual exercise he has achieved in anticipating the commission's communication on its annual strategy some time ago. we want to continue to clarify the priorities of the european union, to succeed in the continuation of enlargement and, above all, to succeed in the relaunch of the lisbon policy. giovanni pittella also managed to take account of the current framework for the negotiations on the future financial perspective. the commission's ambitions in its communication are high. but we are already concerned that the budgetary resources are not up to our expectations. for us, the relaunch of the lisbon strategy is above all about creating quality jobs. we will therefore pay particular attention to the realism and implementation of aid to smes and very small enterprises. i thank our rapporteur for introducing a new concept in our budget: ethical financing instruments. the european union must continue and strengthen all its actions to create social cohesion, to promote human rights everywhere, to help our young people, our citizens, to meet each other, to listen to each other in order to better understand our culture, our european identity. i would like to see us continue to work with the commission on the establishment of pilot projects and preparatory actions. we will also have to find new and better ways of communicating. so far, despite our requests, the results have not lived up to our expectations. the commission must have a professional strategy that meets our needs. to inform citizens regularly of our political plans and decisions taken by the union. before i close, i would like to stress the amendment which we will put to the vote tomorrow. the solidarity fund must be a recourse for all european citizens, wherever they are in the world, in the event of a disaster. the european union's aid must respect its word, its commitments to its objectives and especially in the context of development towards the poorest countries. we must also support the democratic changes of those who hope to have the support of the european union. again, we will run out of resources. another year, and the ball will be in the council's court. we want him to live up to his promises and commitments. the role of the european union depends on it and the credibility of our promises and projects for the citizens also depends on it.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the president of the council on the role he played in this spring council in achieving the necessary consensus among all the member states at a very delicate time for europe. as regards the stability and growth pact, i would say that it is important because it guarantees the stability necessary for the single currency. but what europe needs are criteria and not dogmas, and many of us in this house called for more flexibility. what we really need is economic governance. this pact is also a pact for growth. why should countries which invest more than others in research, defence or infrastructure be penalized? that would be nonsense and in total contradiction to the lisbon strategy. on the other hand, the uncontrolled and unjustified increase in deficits and debt must be severely punished and national parliaments must play their full part in the budgetary control of their governments, those european governments with whom we must also discuss the coming of the fifth age. we're going to have more and more centenarians. we can only rejoice in this, but it implies a transformation both socially and economically. mr president of the council, mr barroso, we will be very attentive to the proposals you will make to us at the june council on the sustainable development strategy in relation to the economic and social recovery required by the lisbon process. climate change is another european challenge. finally, i welcome the commitment to start construction of iter at cadarache before the end of 2005. we must restore the confidence of the european citizens, who are anxious to avoid social and fiscal dumping. that is what we in parliament will try to do with the services directive. i am surprised that the previous speaker has any doubts about the role that parliament can play in this respect. i would remind you that the legislative power, ladies and gentlemen, is shared between the european parliament and the council. in reality, what our europe lacks is enthusiasm and self-confidence. it is up to all of us to reassure and convince, and that is how our fellow citizens will be able to make their own the constitution which is essential for a europe of 25.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, this is a matter we have not yet discussed, but i believe that the conditions under which you have had to negotiate within the eurogroup and then within ecofin show that there may be a problem of articulation between the power of the two bodies. you also mentioned the 3% and the 60%, indicating that they had not been changed. you're right, i know. you would have had difficulty in changing them, because these two figures are recorded in a protocol annexed to the treaties and reproduced in a protocol annexed to the constitution. i would like to go back to the essence of what this reform was. the first points, i think, have not been mentioned enough, and they are points which allow us to move forward in harmonizing the basis on which each member state will draw up its budget tomorrow, the macroeconomic perspectives which will be taken into account and the improvement of the statistical apparatus for assessing the results of a given member state. the idea of better involving national parliaments is in the air. however, i believe that, as these are matters which remain essentially within the sphere of the member states, this is the right way to proceed and this is the spirit in which we will have a debate in the european parliament on 25 april with the national parliaments on the issues of economic policy in europe and in the member states. when i look at the reality of this reform, there are disappointments. each member state has presented its own request and, as is often the case, there has been a form of bargaining in which each has drawn the cover for himself, without, in the end, the european added value and the real prospect of a tool for growth and employment being implemented. we still have work to do in this respect. i know that you share this concern that tomorrow, a genuine coordination of economic policies will finally enable us to enjoy all the advantages that the changeover to the euro should have brought us. the last point - if i may say so, mr president - is that the structural reforms, and therefore the pensions, are unfortunately the big winners of this reform, since they will have to be taken into account, both in the preventive phase and in the deficit assessment. i remember what you said to us in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, you did not necessarily seem to share the idea that a pension reform should be guided by accounting reasons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to begin by congratulating mr juncker, president of the council, mr barroso, president of the commission, and his colleagues, not to mention the heads of state and government. i am grateful to you for having made the council of 22 and 23 march a decisive step forward for europe. in terms of content and form, it was probably one of the best i have ever had the opportunity to meet. the council has indeed provided solutions to a number of longstanding questions. firstly, a smart reform of the stability pact, i think that even in politics and even in european politics, we need intelligence. then there are improvements and new guidelines to ensure that the existing legislation is balanced, i am thinking of the services directive, reach. the environment is also at stake, as soon as kyoto is in place. finally, our relations with china, the european research effort. in this connection, i would like to highlight the historic decision taken to launch iter. i hope that the european union will not wait too long for japan's goodwill in this respect. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer to it. that is why, mr president, i fully support the joint resolution which presents parliament's positive view of this extremely important and extremely positive council.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the last european council gave a new direction to the european economy in the sense of pragmatism, flexibility and encouragement of innovation. on the stability and growth pact, i am pleased that realism and flexibility have taken the place of dogma and blind adherence to rules which were decided during a period of much more sustained economic growth than we are experiencing today. rules are of course necessary, because the stability of our common currency depends on them, but the reform of the pact is positive insofar as it makes it possible to reconcile the essential principle of respect for the rule of law with the minimum flexibility required in the management of the public monies of the member states. i would like to thank president barroso and president juncker for their insight and persuasiveness on this thorny subject. this pragmatism was also reflected in the draft directive on the liberalization of the european market in services. in acknowledging that the current wording of the directive does not fully meet the requirements and in calling for every effort to be made to make the internal market in services fully operational while preserving the european social model, the council has not - as has been said too often in the media - pleased france. it has instead recognised that the country of origin principle raises obvious problems of social and fiscal dumping risks and has relied on the wisdom of the european parliament to find an acceptable solution. this is the kind of attitude that the citizens expect from brussels. the future of our economy is at stake if we do not make a massive and increased investment in education and training and in research and development. we are more than behind our american and asian partners in both these respects. the twenty-five confirmed their determination to make the union a more attractive area for investment and job creation, to promote knowledge and innovation, and to support growth. these are ambitious, necessary and achievable objectives, provided that our states devote the political will and the necessary funds to them.
mr president, on behalf of the conference of committee chairmen, i would like to express our deepest concerns about this draft calendar before the vote on the calendar of our partsession for 2006. with this timetable, the resulting distribution of committee meeting weeks and the number of working days of committees will reach in 2006 the lowest levels since 1994, which was a non-election year. despite the increase in parliamentary work and the increase in the number of members, the number of committees and the number of amendments, we all know that since 1994 parliament's powers have increased in terms of codecision and that the sequence between the plenary sessions in strasbourg and brussels and constituency weeks will not allow parliamentary committees to meet the deadlines set by the code on multilingualism for the adoption and submission of reports for plenary sessions. a clear example: for the session of 11 and 12 october 2006, the reports will have to be adopted by the parliamentary committees by july at the latest. do we want a parliament that is dynamic in its legislative powers? with such a timetable, i do not think that is the case. and in terms of methodology, i would just like to warn all members that we are going to have huge problems in 2006 because we have respected the european school holiday schedule. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, a very simple procedural motion. do we have the right to know what decision has been made? let's tell everyone, because we weren't there. it would be nice to know what was decided. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, under rule 170 (4) of the rules of procedure, the green group/efa request that the vote on the assent procedure for bulgaria be postponed. i'll explain it in a very simple way. we have two different situations: bulgaria and romania. as far as bulgaria is concerned, we believe that there are still problems to be solved and that, as it is an accession in 2007, we do not think it is useful to vote today. the greens/efa group in the european parliament solemnly declares that it is in favour of accession, that it does not want to vote against, but that, as regards the assent, it can only say yes or no or not participate in the vote. however, since we do not want to vote no and we say that we cannot, for example, vote yes today in view of the situation in bulgaria with regard to nuclear energy, we simply ask that the vote on the assent be postponed and that there be first, in accordance with the terms of the agreement with the commission, an interim report from the committee on foreign affairs so that we can vote on the assent at the beginning of 2006, a year before accession. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i call for the postponement of the vote on romania's accession, in accordance with rule 170 (4). if the resolution we have all voted on by an overwhelming majority is read by the honourable members, we shall find that romania is indeed showing a development in the economic field which we can support. but if we look at the political aspects, such as freedom of the press and corruption, if we take seriously all that we have found in the report itself, then no one can say that romania could join in this situation! we say again - and this has been said many times - that we are in favour of accession and have confidence in this new government. but why should we give a boost of confidence when a country has such fundamental problems with democracy as corruption and a lack of freedom of the press? such difficulties cannot be overcome so quickly in one country. therefore, we are requesting that ..... (the president cut the speaker off) in our group we said that the vote would be one of approval or rejection, but not abstention. that would be like an avis conforme. i ask the president to inform me whether it is possible to abstain on the basis of an avis conforme. so far, the only possible outcome of an avis conforme procedure has been approval or rejection, in accordance with the rules of parliament. we want the bureau to inform us about the electoral legislation as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are real shortcomings in romania in the field of human rights and the fight against corruption. the authorities have made commitments in this respect and i believe that strict monitoring of the implementation of these commitments is obviously necessary. i think, however, that the reasons given for such a postponement of the vote are not based on that, since we have heard exactly the same request with regard to bulgaria, which is in a different situation. that is why my group would like to draw attention to one of the consequences of a possible postponement. this would lead, in our view, to the cancellation in extremis of the signing of the accession treaty, which is scheduled for 25 april. we would therefore be sending a message to the romanian people, which would have extremely dangerous political consequences. that is why my group, by a very large majority, does not support the request for referral back and will vote in favour. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, i believe that at a time when the french are debating the constitutional treaty, the signal to be given is not one of scepticism towards enlargement. the enlargement of the european union is not a constraint. it's a project. it's a shared will. and that is why we have to vote today. i don't think that's a reason to postpone. let each one speak for or against his convictions, but certainly not for the postponement. but there's another argument, and it's a very strong one. i have heard many members in the course of the debate say that they fear that our parliament will today sign a blank cheque or say its last word. we have had all the guarantees, through an exchange of letters between you, mr president, the president of the european council and the president of the commission, that our parliament will be fully involved in all the decisions that will be taken tomorrow, and we know that there is the possibility of invoking the safeguard clause. i therefore believe that all members can vote today in full knowledge of the facts and in complete confidence, because this parliament will play its full part in the procedure that follows between now and 1 january 2007. so i too call for this postponement to be rejected. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. marie anne isler béguin did not follow the advice of her group chairman daniel cohn bendit, who called for a vote to postpone the european parliament's vote on romania's accession. it believes that its vote is in no way a blank cheque offered to romania. on the contrary, it should encourage this future member state to double down and speed up reforms, particularly in the fight against corruption, the defence of civil rights, the protection of ethnic minorities and border controls. it recalls that this will be the first time - thanks to a green proposal accepted by the foreign affairs committee - that the european parliament will be fully involved in the decision-making process, in particular if the safeguard clause is activated - a clause which means that accession can be postponed by one year if either country is not ready in 2007. the commissioner also welcomed the fact that the final report adopted by the plenary contained her amendments: - calling for the adoption of clear and prudent coexistence rules to avoid the spread of gm varieties; - underlining the european parliament's concern about the rosia montana project - and calling for in-depth preliminary impact studies of the project's impact on the environment.
in writing. the french delegation of the independence and democracy group voted against the van orden and moscovici reports for several reasons, mainly because of their interest in bulgaria and romania, members of the international francophone organisation and long-standing friends of france. we love them too much to fall prey to the eurocratic trap, which promises much, gives little and takes away the essential - sovereignty. the soviet-style "limited sovereignty" imposed by the eu is also opposed by prominent citizens of these countries, who refuse to see their nation bought by eu subsidies, and who call for the support of our no. together with them, outside the eu's confines, it will be possible to achieve a greater europe based on cooperation adapted to the interests of each participant, in the service of the freedom of the peoples. on the other hand, the accession of romania and bulgaria ensures territorial continuity with turkey, which favours its accession. this would complete the eu's evolution as a culturally divided, and politically powerless, if not feudal, agglomeration. this vote does not therefore deny the european character of bulgaria and romania, which have always been european countries.
in writing. the 2006 budget closes the budgetary planning for 2000-06. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the budget contains a litany of narrow budgetary themes: uncollected surpluses, spillage of funds from the balkans, the need for mosquito nets for children with malaria, the financial implementation of the cap reform, talk of rural development without rural people, the lack of funds for fisheries... a budgetary strategy without originality because it serves the absence of ideas. for example, in pursuit of the millennium development goals, the budgetary authorities are not thinking of a new technology of customs duties which, if made deductible, would allow the african country exporting bulk to benefit from a drawdown on importing economies equal to the amount of customs duties incurred. in 2006, as always, the budgetary imagination is not in power in brussels.
in writing. on the occasion of mr markov's report, i wish to protest against the state of european legislation which is notoriously insufficient (both in terms of working time and working conditions and pay) to properly guarantee road users and the safety of all. the european union has chosen a method which sets maximum possible working hours and some minimum social rules. it does, however, offer the possibility of better regulation in some member states. but in reality this system causes social dumping because free competition in services leads to the penalisation of carriers from countries with better social conditions. the search for competitiveness is therefore pressing for a deterioration in working conditions and wages in these countries, and this is unacceptable. the european union should have embarked on a different dynamic, one of upward harmonization, through a system of progressive social convergence. this strategy should have linked the establishment of a base level (more favourable than the chosen one) and the requirement of gradual convergence towards the highest level. this is not what is intended and the situation which has arisen from european legislation cannot be accepted.
in writing. the european council last march was a further demonstration of the hypocrisy of the european union's leaders, who were panicked at the prospect of a 'no' vote in the french referendum. despite the soothing rhetoric, the bolkestein directive has not been repealed or withdrawn. it proceeds along its normal legislative path, with this one obstacle: the council of ministers will try to reach a consensus. we are being led to believe that this is a great diplomatic victory, when it is nothing more or less than the application of a 40-year-old method, the 'luxembourg compromise'. the reform of the stability pact, a harmful budgetary trap, is also misleading. the negotiation of the european constitution could have been an opportunity to reform the maastricht criteria in depth, which make little economic sense, to require the european central bank to give priority to supporting employment and growth. nothing has been done. instead, we have this poorly dressed, and the pact continues to have an amplifying effect and even a trigger for the economic and social difficulties of our countries. these maneuvers are ridiculous. they will not deceive those who, in increasing numbers, reject the evolution of europe from brussels.
in writing. contrary to what the supporters of the european constitution in france have claimed, mr chirac did not win the withdrawal of the bolkestein directive in brussels on 23 march. the directive will not be withdrawn, the european council said in its official report, adding that it must remain on the european agenda as the strategy for growth, employment and competitiveness implies that we open up the services market. but this is not the first lie told by the yes-turtle. mr bolkestein himself said that until this year neither mr chirac nor mr raffarin had expressed any reservations about his directive, which was approved by the french commissioners, the socialist pascal lamy and the chiracite michel barnier. and for good reason, mr bolkestein was only implementing a decision taken in 2000 at the lisbon summit, where france was represented by mr chirac and mr jospin. but this directive is only a preview of what awaits us if the european constitution is adopted. articles 144, 145 and 148 of the text are clear. did you like the bolkestein directive? you're going to love the european constitution. on may 29, by voting no, the french will defend their jobs and social rights.
mr president, a half hour is much too long for me, since the vast subjects covered in this brief report require the existence of a foreign minister, a diplomatic service and a common foreign policy. but we have not had a single outline of a common foreign policy since it was introduced in 1992 by title 5 of the maastricht treaty. there is no common policy and there can be no common policy, for the very reason that there is no agreement between the principles, traditions, interests and, therefore, policies of our different nations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the other minimum requirement, the creation of a common diplomatic instrument, requires the adoption of a european constitution. i am sorry to say that this is not a secret for many people, but it is very likely that this project will never see the light of day and that all your scaffolding, installed on the great void of popular legitimacy, will collapse by itself. i could therefore stop here and not waste my time or your time, but i would not like to stop you from dreaming, because your dreams are of great interest to the sovereigntists who are campaigning today in france and elsewhere. when we announce to the french at our meetings that there is a person in washington who is given the pompous title of ambassador of the european union to the united states, they laugh a lot. when the french are told that there will be, with the said constitution, a so-called minister of foreign affairs and that the holder of the post will, as it happens, be a former secretary-general of nato, well, the french are even more amused or intrigued or scandalized. so, ladies and gentlemen, euists and europe-lovers of all kinds, keep on giving us such distracting arguments.
mr president-in-office of the council, let me first of all publicly state that we are pleased with the steps taken by the president of the european parliament and one of its vice-presidents, mr vidal-quadras roca, to name but one, to secure the release of the french journalist, mrs florence aubenas, and her colleague, mr hanoun al-saadi, who have been held hostage for exactly 100 days today. this is an opportunity for me to recall that in iraq a number of journalists and press assistants have been the victims of kidnappings, as is rarely the case in a war, since there are several dozen kidnappings. i also insist, on the basis of my experience on the one hand and my new duties on the other, that the council submit a request for a joint inquiry before the people demand it in the streets, as was the case in italy with mr calibari. there is something morally and technically feasible.
deputy author. mr president, the alstom power boiler case puts us all on the back foot of our commitment to building a europe of full employment, with strong industry and advanced technology, a europe which cares about the environment, a europe which is free from american technological and financial domination. what's this about? a member of the alstom group, with creative, research and production capacities in europe 250 employees in france, in vélizy, 300 employees in germany, in stuttgart, a number of establishments in the czech republic, portugal and poland and with its headquarters in connecticut, usa. the know-how of this company lies in the manufacture of boilers for the production of steam and electricity. it is the world leader in clean coal production and is developing new co2 capture technologies. with the implementation of the kyoto protocol and the need to diversify energy sources, it is clear that such technologies have enormous potential. for reasons that are not entirely clear, alstom's management decided to transfer european know-how to the united states and to divide the workforce at vélizy by five and that of stuttgart by two, with the probable objective of eventually closing the main european sites. the pretext for this vampirisation of european know-how is a pseudo-study conducted by the americans, which predicts a foreseeable reduction of the market by one third over four years. like the employees of power boiler, one can only doubt the seriousness of this study, especially when one considers the gigantic needs in this field that are emerging all over the world. but don't we say in my country that when you want to kill your dog, you accuse him of rabies? the alstom group has been characterized by a complete lack of longterm industrial strategy and a frantic search for immediate profits since its privatization. the commission, like the french government, also has a share of responsibility. fortunately, the employees of the european sites concerned, supported by their unions, did not give up. vélizy's employees devised a counter-project, which involved the exit of the company from the alstom group for a sales price of around the symbolic euro, the creation of a european public limited company combining the vélizy and stuttgart sites and preserving the establishments located in the czech republic, poland and portugal. this project is based on the voluntary participation of employees. it has the advantage of being part of the requests made by the european commission to alstom on 7 july 2004 concerning the sale of assets, the aim being to preserve and develop european employment and technological potential vis-à-vis the united states. it is a cooperation between european employees which is at the forefront of the application of european law, leading to the creation of a european public limited company. but we must act quickly, the company's intellectual property is about to be transferred to the united states and switzerland and alstom's management is working to put the company in financial difficulty. if, ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to the development of industry and employment, we must do everything we can to support this initiative. the european company law directive and the regulation on employee involvement in company management have not yet been transposed into french law, but it is still possible to anticipate. it is a question of political will and i expect the commission to show that will. so let us not disappoint those workers who are threatened in their jobs but who are so proud of their unparalleled technical achievements and always ready to innovate.
i am glad to see you presiding over your first sitting, mr president, especially since your arrival in this office is linked to excellent news for my group and for the european socialists: the victory of the socialists in portugal. mr president, commissioner, like my colleague mr henin, i am one of the authors of this question to the commission. a few weeks ago we were receiving a delegation of alstom group employees, consisting of german and french trade union representatives from the two sites of this subsidiary specialising in boilers. these workers are now affected by the announcement made by their management on 16 february 2005 of the closure or, in any case, of a very significant reduction of jobs and activities, both in stuttgart and in vélizy: 150 out of 350 jobs would be eliminated in stuttgart, costing 150 out of 200 in vélizy. this means that in the long run, both sites would probably be condemned. a few months ago, on 7 july 2004, the european commission approved aid granted by france to alstom under strict conditions of sale, but with the objective not only of restoring healthy conditions of competition but also of ensuring the sustainability of alstom's industry and its various subsidiaries. the subsidiary alstom power boiler is a company specialised, as has just been mentioned, in the construction of boilers for thermal power stations. it is a european, but also a world, technology leader in several fields, in particular those of clean, difficult combustion and co2 capture. from the very perspective of the european union's priorities under the lisbon strategy, which we discussed recently, which is to make europe develop its skills and technology and become the most competitive economy in the world, from the perspective of our objectives in terms of sustainable development and clean energy, this society is a strategic tool and it turns out that obviously many jobs depend on it. this is precisely what justified the commission's approval in july 2007 of the considerable aid: eur 3 billion granted by the french state to the alstom group to carry out its restructuring. in its final decision, the commission stated: 'with regard to the power generation and transport sectors, the restructuring measures are sufficient to ensure the industrial recovery. the planned reductions in workforce are considered to be proportionate to the extent of overcapacity in these industries, and the estimates of the cost of these restructurings and the resulting savings appear realistic.' the group's management today is going beyond the job cuts announced at the time, beyond the divestments it had undertaken to make. i therefore believe that the european commission cannot ignore the decisions which have just been taken by the management of the alstom group. if the commission is always extremely scrupulous about compliance with the competition rules after aid has been granted, it must also be extremely scrupulous about the consequences for employment. i am not sure that the commissioner has understood this, but it seems to me that the ultimate justification for aid granted for the restructuring of a company is the maintenance of this activity, particularly and ultimately because it helps to maintain employment, because it generates a whole lot of benefits, tax revenues, etc., but above all because it helps to maintain employment. the commission cannot be hemiplegic, cannot, after granting aid, look only at the effects on competition and compliance with competition. it must also ensure that the aid actually contributes to maintaining activity and employment at all sites, since it was considered, at the time of approval of the aid in july 2004, that the planned job cuts were sufficient and that there was therefore no justification for going beyond that. we are therefore now counting on the commission to ensure that employment is maintained and that the two sites in question are not closed.
deputy author. mr president, i am here to replace my colleague, hélène flautre, with whom i have been working on this dossier for five years. i think mr. harlem desire's intervention is the real problem. i have been telling former commissioner monti for years that there would come a day when the main job of the directorate-general for competition would not be so much to refuse aid but to see whether it was used well. what is the basis for a country granting state aid in apparent contradiction with article 87 of the treaty? it is in europe's interest because if this aid were to be withdrawn, jobs would be lost which would be irreplaceable. the offer of know-how, of work in the service of the union's objectives, in the service of the citizens of the union, in the service of the consumers of the union would disappear. in its great wisdom, the competition directorate and the commission granted this aid to alstom a year ago. it was not a matter of giving in to pressure from the french government. it was a question of making a judgment on the fact that, in the state in which alstom proposed to continue living, yes, it was worthwhile for a state to give it its help. it was good for all of europe. well, if that judgment was good a year ago, it's still good today. alstom is demonstrating that, in applying for this state aid, it was not at all seeking to maintain the supply of clean technologies in europe, it was not seeking to contribute to the objective of full employment in europe. it was merely seeking to obtain state aid on the basis of the principle of privatisation of profits and socialisation of losses. we cannot accept this, whether on the right or the left, in europe. so i think we have here a key example on which the commission must base its doctrine. if the authorizations to grant state aid, as they are listed in a rather extensive way - there are a dozen cases in article 87 which is also preserved in the constitution - do in some way ground up europe's industrial policy, it is now time for it to show it. the commission must say whether the aid granted a year ago was simply to bail out the alstom shareholders or whether it really served the interests of the european people, their future and in particular compliance with the kyoto protocol.
vice-president of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to begin by congratulating you on your appointment and wishing you a successful term of office. the question can and must be considered from two angles: first from the industrial policy point of view and then from the point of view of aid control. i am responsible for industrial policy. i therefore feel very confident when i say that it is in the interest of european policy not only to maintain but also to develop innovative technologies, modern enterprises and modern jobs in europe. it is in the european union's overriding interest to maintain a strong industrial base in europe, because without a strong industrial base we will not be able to defend our competitiveness in global competition. from this point of view, as the commissioner responsible for industry in europe, i am very interested in alstom successfully completing the restructuring it has begun and continuing to exist as a healthy, successful and profitable company. this is the industrial policy side. but that's not the issue today. the subject is the question of aid control. it is true that the commission approved alstom's restructuring plan at the time as a condition for the aid granted by the french state. the commission imposed conditions on this restructuring plan and on the aid. it is the commission's task, as the honourable members have rightly pointed out, to ensure that the conditions are met and that the aid is used in the way it has been authorized by the commission. we'll look into that, too. the commission had in particular pointed out at that time that the approval of the aid was conditional on the divestment of certain business lines and operational restructuring. the question to be answered tonight is whether or not the supplementary restructuring plan in question contradicts the commission's decision. if the restructuring plan does not conflict with the conditions, the management of the company is responsible for its implementation, but not the commission. the commission does not run alstom, but the management does. the competent services have informed me that the commission has so far received no evidence of a breach of the commission's conditions for authorising the aid. but i can assure you that we will of course continue to monitor the case and will be very careful to ensure that the conditions are met. in principle, the commission is committed to finding partnership solutions which take account of all economic, social and environmental aspects. the commission's recent communication on restructuring and employment explicitly calls for the mobilisation of all the forces of society to better accompany restructuring, with the aim of sustaining the development of competition and employment. the commission proposes in particular to organise a more intensive sectoral and regional follow-up. the provision of dedicated resources is intended to support the implementation of this strategy. in addition, maintaining and building europe's capacity for innovation, research and development is of strategic importance. the commission has just presented a framework programme for competitiveness and innovation. i am aware of the fact that our options are extremely limited when it comes to the question of job cuts. i share your sentiments in this regard. the commission must, however, strictly observe the law. i promised you that we would monitor this case very closely and take action if it turned out that the conditions attached to the aid were not being met.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of the alstom group has been a cause of great concern for many months. the future of the 25 000 alstom employees in france is at stake. we have had to fight hard and our government has stood firmly by the alstom workers. it was our finance minister, nicolas sarkozy, who went to negotiate with the then commissioner, mario monti, so that we could bring the aid that saved alstom. it was, of course, a question of saving the future of the workers but also of preserving a jewel of the european energy and transport industry. we shall be talking about velizy and stuttgart this evening, but also about brno in the czech republic and setúbal in portugal, as well as many subcontractors throughout europe. today, the announcement of the cutting of 350 jobs, including 200 in vélizy at alstom power boiler, brings worries to a head. the weakening of the boiler market is evident, but not to the extent that such a reduction in the workforce is warranted. the commission is not, of course, dictating the management of companies or managing, in place of governments, the social support of possible redundancies. it should be noted that alstom power boiler is a leader in clean coal production and is developing carbon capture technologies. it is not a business doomed to sclerosis and obsolescence. accepting its transatlantic migration or, worse, its disappearance, is looking into a rearview mirror. the employees - they should be congratulated - have built a project around the concept of 'building the european clean combustion champion'. they have, with experts, built a blueprint for the future that covers all aspects: the legal structure of the new company, technological aspects, commercial aspects, social aspects. this approach, which refuses to give in, should be welcomed. it has been brought to the attention of the european partners: the commissioners responsible for employment, industry, trade, competition and the environment, who are awaiting your conclusions. mr commissioner, you must now anticipate the cultural and social revolution launched by the draft constitutional treaty. the social rights will, with the constitutional treaty, prevail over the perfection of the internal market which prevailed in the earlier treaties. the social dialogue will be institutionalized, but above all we will have to build an industrial policy which gives priority to clusters of competences and preserves the social market economy which is proposed to us as a social model in article 3 of the constitutional treaty. the question which is put to you today, commissioner, is this: how do you anticipate the philosophy of the constitutional treaty? do not be the clerk of the old europe, but on the contrary, set up the new europe, the one that was wanted by the constitutional treaty. you have a good way of doing that, preserving the future of alston power boiler.
for the greens/efa group mr president, this resolution is certainly moving in the right direction. we have all seen at the last olympic games a number of athletes - in fact very few compared to the thousands of athletes present - being caught for having ingested a few doses of prohibited substances. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. clearly, the first thing we need to do is to take a stand to defend the public health of our athletes, top athletes, professional athletes. but there is a contradiction here, as we have seen recently. the world anti-doping agency, which is doing extremely important work, has just decided, particularly with regard to corticosteroids, that tests will be carried out and that a certain dose will be accepted - i believe it is 30% - of corticosteroids in the samples that will be operated. this is a position taken with regard to the medical profession, a position which amounts to accepting a certain dose. it reminds us and it reminds me that, in the world of professional cycling and hematocrit, we accept a rate of less or equal to 50% but not more. there is one request missing from our resolution. this is an expensive but essential requirement to ensure independent and continuous medical monitoring of athletes. in this way, we can see, regardless of the age of the athlete and the sport they play, how athletes treat themselves throughout their career, starting from a zero level because athletes also have the right to treat themselves and what legal or unfortunately illegal doping they may have taken. if we do not have this kind of instrument in the field of doping, in europe, in the european union and in the world, well, everything we have said before is of little use, unless there is this independent and longitudinal medical monitoring.
the negotiations under way at unesco are of great importance to us europeans. we have so far succeeded in making our principles prevail in international forums. these principles have been reiterated in this house by my predecessors. cultural goods and services are not commodities like other commodities. cultural diversity is a wealth for all mankind. every government must have the right to support the creation and dissemination of its own culture without being subject to the sacrosanct requirements of free trade or the authority of the wto. we have succeeded in enforcing these principles so far and the cultural sector has been excluded from the international negotiations on the liberalization of services at the world trade organization. but those who consider cultural goods and services to be part of the entertainment industry are again on the offensive. at their initiative, bilateral free trade agreements involving the cultural sector are increasing. at unesco, representatives of the united states and its allies sought, and to a large extent succeeded, in weakening the original text proposed for the convention. the only effective way to guarantee our right to cultural identity and diversity is to make it a universal right recognized by all peoples and defended in international institutions by their representatives. the unesco convention must become the international legal instrument of reference on cultural policy issues. it must not be subordinated to other trade agreements. it shall have an effective dispute settlement mechanism. finally, it must be ready for the next unesco general conference in october 2005, at which time it can be adopted.
member of the commission. mr president, i have taken good note of what was said by the various honourable members and i will pass on their comments and suggestions to mr figeľ. in general, let me say first of all that the commission welcomes parliament’s resolution on cultural diversity and that our views fully correspond. parliament’s resolution will help the commission continue its work on the negotiating process in cooperation with parliament. on a number of specific aspects that have been raised by speakers, i would like to make the following comments. on the involvement of parliament, let me reaffirm our commitment to keep parliament informed. we have regularly passed on information to parliament and specifically to the committee on culture and education. the next meeting is due to be held on 19 april and mr figeľ is committed to continuing the dialogue with the committee and to addressing the substance of the ongoing negotiations with the committee. we want to make good use of parliament’s ideas during the negotiations. parliament’s strong support is welcome and assists us in our tasks. on the request for more information on the negotiations, let me state that at the moment most of the negotiations concern procedures. the discussions on the substance will come later, during the may and june part-sessions. concerning deadlines, we would like to see the timetable respected so as to allow us to conclude the negotiations during the course of this year. on issues of substance, we will be particularly attentive to the protection of cultural and national specificities, as also the interests of our media sector. on the point raised concerning languages, let me say that linguistic diversity is another aspect of our policy. in fact the commission has included a proposal on lifelong learning in the financial perspective for 2007-2013. linguistic diversity is a pillar of this proposal and the main education and culture programme.
the debate is closed. i have received a motion for a resolution at the end of this debate. the vote on this resolution will take place at noon.
the next item is the report (a6-0051/2005) by mrs rosa miguélez ramos on the proposal for a council regulation establishing measures to restore the southern hake and norway lobster stocks in the cantabrian sea and the west of the iberian peninsula and amending regulation (ec) no 850/98 and the report (a6-0050/2005) by mr philippe morillon on the proposal for a council regulation establishing measures to restore the western channel and the bay of biscay sole stocks.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, the proposal from the committee on fisheries for measures to restore the stocks of sole in the western channel and the bay of biscay has been submitted to parliament in the consultation procedure. it is the result of the proposals submitted to the council in december 2002 for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, as you said, in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. the aim of this proposal is to ensure that stocks are maintained or restored within safe biological limits in the two regions concerned within a period of five to ten years. it has five chapters. the first, setting out the criteria to be met in order to achieve the objectives of the plan, provided that, where stocks could be considered to be within the limits, the council could decide to cancel the plan on a proposal from the commission. the other chapters specified technical and control measures to enable the plan to be implemented. in the course of the debate on this subject it became clear, as you said, that for at least one of the two regions concerned, that of the bay of biscay, the latest scientific reports indicated that the stock situation was not below biological limits. consequently, instead of adopting a recovery plan as referred to in article 5 of the 2002 regulation, it appeared preferable to adopt a management plan as provided for in article 6 of the same regulation. the proposal does not, of course, leave fishermen free to resume intensive fishing without any control, which would inevitably have catastrophic consequences for the future of the species. it has led to the amendment of the technical provisions proposed by the commission, but in such a way as to ensure that these stocks remain within biological limits, while recalling that the new common fisheries policy aims to enable the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources, taking into account in a balanced way the environmental, social and economic implications. i would point out that parliament's proposals make it clear in this connection that if the commission should find, in the light of the annual assessments, that any of the stocks of sole concerned are at risk of collapse, it should propose to the council additional measures to be implemented to ensure the recovery of the stock concerned. in summary, mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the essence of the proposals in the report which will shortly be put to the vote in parliament without amendment and which received very broad approval in committee, demonstrating the desire to involve fishermen themselves in the thinking of scientists and politicians and to reconcile the expertise of the latter with the experience of the former. i would add that the discussions which led to the drafting of this report were conducted in an excellent atmosphere and i would like to conclude, commissioner, by expressing my sincere gratitude to you.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, congratulations to the rapporteur on a report which does not present any major problems. i take this opportunity to thank the fishermen for catching one of the best fish, the sole, which nature, for some, or god, for others, has put at our disposal. let them keep on fishing for it! there are a number of lessons to be learned from this report and this proposal. firstly, we must know how to adapt when necessary and the decisions taken are not taken against the fishing vessel owners. if there are more suns than expected, you have to be able to adapt to the situation and not be confined or stuck. secondly, the calm of the ports and the confidence in the future depend to a large extent on the good work done by the fishermen and the scientists. some people don't necessarily believe each other, and i think we need to persevere in deepening our relationships. i think that one place that has been set up within the framework of the common fisheries policy is very useful: the regional advisory councils. these bodies must be used to ensure that these two broad categories of professionals and scientists understand each other as well as possible. in this case, commissioner, your work is all the easier and we share the same aim: to conserve as many fish stocks as possible on the seabed because without fish, there are no fishermen at work and without fishermen, there is no fish for the consumer.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am sorry to make a slightly discordant note in this fine consensus. we would have liked to have supported the commission's proposal in a much more voluntary way and we regret that systematically, in the face of the serious situation of the constant decline in fisheries resources - albeit with nuances depending on the species - the member states, aided by many members of parliament, continue to want to mitigate the objectives to be achieved at all costs. although everyone says they want to conserve resources, in reality this is not the case and we cannot accept this situation. that is why we shall not vote on both reports. there is no doubt that there is a need to discuss with local actors and fishermen the adaptation and simplification of measures which are sometimes too complex. it is also important, of course, to take account of the socioeconomic impacts, to provide for compensation, which must be made fair so that they do not always go the same way, and to preserve small-scale fishing and small-scale fishing, which must also survive. we agree with all this, but we cannot accept that the commission's objectives, which are based on scientific data, are systematically reduced. we can't keep arguing about the situation. that is why we shall vote against both reports, but we shall support the commission's intention in this area.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their hard and constructive work. i also wish to thank mr varela suanzes-carpegna for his good work on the hake plan. concerning the proposal for a council regulation establishing measures for the recovery of the southern hake and norway lobster stocks in the cantabrian sea and western iberian peninsula and amending regulation (ec) no 850/98, i can fully agree with 14 of the 26 amendments considered by the committee on fisheries. these are amendments 2, 4, 10 in part, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 26. it is appropriate to remove the out-of-date proposals concerning management by kilowatt days, to adapt the minimum quantities concerning control arrangements according to the measures set up for 2005, to establish tolerance margins and conversion factors consistent with those in the northern hake recovery plan, and i can agree with the deletion of obsolete provisions concerning effort messages. the fishing mortality rate of 0.27 is acceptable because it is consistent with the implementation plan of the world summit on sustainable development adopted in johannesburg in 2002. i also agree that it is appropriate that a recovery plan should anticipate a recovery taking place within less than five years. although estimates of biomass of fish stocks are uncertain, observations of stock size above a precautionary level for two years in a row could be a way to signal the need to move from a recovery phase into a long-term management plan. concerning amendment 10, we can, therefore, accept the 35 000 tonnes exit criterion, but not the requirement of a ten-year delay in recovery or the reference to ‘in a sufficient period of time’. such an approach would be contrary to the fao code of conduct. we do not fix the duration of the plans: we set an objective and estimate the approximate time we will need to achieve it. i cannot accept amendments 15 or 16 because the 10% constraint on tac changes is too tight to allow an adaptation to real circumstances. in line with the opinion of the advisory committee on fisheries and aquaculture, the figure should be retained at 15% rather than 10%, but the 15% could apply in the first year of the plan. i support the principles behind amendment 17 and can accept paragraphs 1 and 2 of that amendment, with modifications committing the council, as well as the commission, and making reference to maintaining the arrangements embodied in annex ivb of regulation (ec) no 27/2005 on a comparable basis to the cod recovery plan. for these reasons, i cannot support amendment 27. in relation to paragraphs 3 and 4 of amendment 17, and amendments 3, 28 and 30, state aids should be decided in the context of the financial instrument for fisheries guidance and the european fisheries fund, so that comparable financial resources are made available to all fishermen who find themselves in similar situations. as is the case with sole stocks, which i will come to later, it is appropriate to have an interim review procedure, but this should be done at reasonable intervals. i could support amendment 25, subject to the extension of the review period to four years rather than two years. i cannot support attempts to rebuild stock size year-by-year, because of the disruptions that this is likely to cause industry, and i cannot support amendment 5.after extensive consultation with my officials and with officials and fishing representatives in member states, i can agree to some modification in the size and number of closed areas for fishing for nephrops. however, complete deletion of any reference to closed areas, as in amendments 6, 7, and 24, goes too far to be compatible with precautionary management at this stage. management of hake and nephrops in the gulf of cadiz is an important issue given the abundance of juvenile hake in that area. on the basis of the precautionary principle, greater uncertainty in this area is not a reason to be less cautious, so i cannot support amendments 1, 8 or 9, which would exclude this area. however, i accept that measures for the gulf of cadiz may need to be different. i cannot accept amendment 30. capacity needs to be managed so as to be in balance with the productivity of the fish stocks. if either or both fishing effort and capacity were allowed to increase again once the stocks are recovered, the result would be a decline in the stocks and a reduction in the amount of fish available to the industry. this would not achieve the aim of sustainable exploitation. turning now to the morillon report, i am pleased to say i can fully agree with amendments 7, 16, 17, 18 19, 20, 21 and 22. it is entirely appropriate to remove the chapter concerning management of effort by kilowatt days, to apply control measures only to landings above 100 kg instead of 50 kg. i accept that the provision for the margin of tolerance in logbooks should be the same as that already adopted for northern hake. i also accept that, as a general rule, variations in tac should be limited to no more than 15% for these stocks. notwithstanding the deletion of the kilowatt days scheme from the proposal, it will be necessary to substitute alternative effort management measures. for the western channel sole, these should be based on the measures already introduced under annex ivc of the current tac and quota regulation. the biological state of sole in the bay of biscay is apparently better than previously thought and it is appropriate to apply a management plan to this stock, rather than a recovery plan. i can therefore accept the substance of amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 12 and 13, but only insofar as it relates to bay of biscay sole. the biological conditions prevailing for western channel sole are sufficiently serious for recovery plan provisions to apply to that stock. i also support the idea of an interim report mechanism as mooted in amendment 11, as i mentioned when discussing southern hake and nephrops. however, the plan needs to be given time to take effect before a review is useful, so a four-year interval would be appropriate here, which is a similar timescale to the one used for the interim evaluations of long-term measures agreed for the northern stocks shared with norway. i can also agree with the idea of setting a target fishing mortality rate for bay of biscay sole, as in amendment 15. however, we should take account of the scientific advice that will be provided by stecf in june on this topic, and i will reserve my position on the right figure to use until i have seen that report. however, i cannot agree with the idea of setting a tac according to an annual increase in the quantity of adult fish in the sea. the scientific advice is simply not precise enough to allow such an approach and i fear the result would be an unwarranted, overly erratic adaptation of tacs. the fishing industry needs more stability than this method can provide. i am not therefore in a position to support amendments 8 or 14. i see legal problems with certain amendments. amendment 5 would be in contradiction to the requirements of the last sentence of article 5(2) of regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 and the last sentence of article 6(2) of the same regulation. and while regional advisory councils, where they exist, should be consulted when developing new legislation, the implementation of regulations is the responsibility of member states. for this technical reason, i cannot support amendments 5 or 6. however, we would certainly have no problem with member state authorities consulting the regional advisory council, on a voluntary basis, concerning such plans. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time in a few minutes.
i am now pleased to announce the presence in the official gallery of a delegation from the armenian parliament, chaired by mr armen rustamyan. (applause) the delegation took part yesterday and today in the seventh meeting of the european union-armenia parliamentary cooperation committee. i wish him every success in his meetings in the european parliament and a very pleasant stay in strasbourg.
ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote. (for the results and other details of the votes: see minutes)
i am very grateful to you, mr samuelsen, for the help you have given me in clarifying a subject which is always sensitive.
before voting on amendment no 13, with the semantic nuance underlined by mr speroni, we shall first vote on amendments nos 1 and 10, which are strictly identical. (parliament adopted amendments nos 1 and 10 and amendment no 13 is therefore withdrawn)
madam president, can you please present the text of the amendment?
we have now finished with the votes.
all explanations of vote shall be in writing. (the sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
mr president, many migrants arrive regularly on the island of lampedusa in italy. these people have made the painful decision to leave their country because they are mostly fleeing political situations in which their lives are threatened. on 18 march, the italian authorities deported 180 people from the centre of lampedusa to libya. the lack of transparency and access around the centre and the conditions of these expulsions raise questions about the respect of the right of asylum and the geneva convention. the speed of the expulsions and the fact that the deported persons were sorted by nationality shows that the applications could not be examined individually and with the necessary care. it cannot therefore be certain that well-meaning asylum seekers have not been returned to dangerous situations. we are also particularly concerned that the high commissioner for refugees is being prevented from fulfilling its mandate. the latter must have access to asylum seekers in order to ensure that any person who wishes to make an application for asylum can do so and that his application is carefully examined. these expulsions are all the more alarming as we are sending vulnerable people back to a country that does not allow them to be protected. libya is not a signatory to the geneva convention and has no asylum system. it cannot therefore provide international protection for those who need it. finally, it is itself deporting refugees outside its borders to dangerous areas. we therefore call on the italian authorities to grant the high commissioner for refugees unlimited access to the lampedusa centre immediately. the expulsions must also be stopped until the lampedusa centre is in conformity with community and international law.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is customary to congratulate the rapporteurs in this chamber where everyone is competing for friendliness. this time, however, we really must take full measure of the work that has been done by mr coveney, a painstaking work based on intensive listening which, it is true, results in a complete, clear and fair report. but it is clear that it is not easy to achieve this feat of assessing the human rights situation in each country. i therefore wholeheartedly endorse all the congratulations that have been paid to him. there are positive points in this report, a lot of positive points, and my group particularly welcomes the balance it has achieved with respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism. i believe that this is a subject which is attracting a great deal of attention at international level, at european level, in this house, and that what we are witnessing today, with the help of the rapporteur - i am referring to what has just been decided following the un session - should enable us to make very significant progress in this area. my group also welcomes the extension of civil and political rights to economic and social issues, with a major chapter on corporate social responsibility. i would hope that perhaps tomorrow, when we consider the amendments, we will also recognise, as we are called to do by the work of undp on the degradation of ecosystems and the impacts of pollution on our ability on a global scale to achieve the millennium development goals, the right to development as an inalienable human right, as stated in a 1986 un declaration. this was reiterated at the johannesburg summit as a key reference point for environmental and social standards and human rights. i shall invite you to consider these questions tomorrow. that said, i believe that the main point of the report probably lies in the capacity, which we can continue to develop in the coming years, to analyse the instruments of the european union for the protection and promotion of human rights and democracy in the world. i think that's an extremely important chapter. everyone is seeing today how much the credibility, the expectations around the european union, its project through the hoped-for adoption of the constitution are focusing on the issue of human rights and democracy and i believe that we will not succeed in imposing a european way, in dialogue and credibility, in fairness, if internally, between our institutions, we are not capable of considerable progress. if we really want to monitor and evaluate all our mechanisms, then the european parliament must be associated, involved and informed of all the actions decided on in the framework of the guidelines, in the framework of the structured dialogues on human rights and in all the measures taken at the level of the commission and the council. through better interinstitutional dialogue we will achieve greater efficiency and coherence in our policy. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, the roma have been present on european soil for many centuries, having arrived in greece in the fourth century. although no census has been taken of the population, it is estimated that there are about 8 million of them scattered throughout europe. roma are subject to discrimination, marginalisation and segregation in all areas of public and private life, including in access to public services, education, employment, health services and housing, as well as in crossing borders and in access to asylum procedures. now this discrimination is not just a roma problem but concerns all europeans and we must show solidarity to improve their living conditions. we must, of course, strongly condemn all discrimination faced by the roma, but we must also allow them access to decent housing, education, health services and social protection. and i insist that we must do everything possible to ensure that they are not forced to leave their country because of the deplorable living conditions they are experiencing there, which can even lead to persecution. europe must recognize the roma minority as such, so that it can provide them with the tools to combat all forms of discrimination. we therefore call for an action plan from the commission which makes clear recommendations to the member states and the applicant countries for better economic, social and political integration of all roma in europe. the commission has already made some observations and it is high time that action was taken. this has gone on long enough. the rights of roma must go beyond their access to decent living conditions. europe is the cradle of multiculturalism. the promotion of roma culture will play an important role in the fight against discrimination, racism and xenophobia. they must be able to stay at home if they wish, they must not be chased on the roads, this is important, this is essential for all of us: it is our duty to act and to act quickly.
mr president, as chairman of the delegation to the countries of the south caucasus, i very much hope that the european parliament will commemorate the 90th anniversary of the armenian genocide. for ninety years the armenian people have been haunted by this past and have been waiting for recognition of this genocide. the world must recognize them as witnesses, as our european parliament did in 1987, and the perpetrators must recognize them as guilty. this recognition is slow to emerge because we are in the field of pure emotion and heightened sensitivity. but i remain convinced that this time will come, and it is up to the union to promote it. in the context of the accession negotiations with turkey, the union must help the turkish people and authorities to begin their work of remembrance, as germany did by asking forgiveness from the jewish people. we must bring turkish society to the recognition of the armenian genocide of 1919. i am hopeful, especially today, because the armenian authorities have agreed to participate in an intergovernmental commission with turkey on the genocide. i am very confident that the armenians and the turks will find a way of reconciliation and live as good neighbours.
mr president, while i welcome the general philosophy of this report, and although this text can be an acceptable basis for harmonising upwards the rights of european citizens in the field of social protection linked to health, it also has major shortcomings. it's too general, doesn't set a time, doesn't have enough constraints. but in this matter, incantation is not enough. let us be ambitious for the social europe we all want, let us exclude health and social protection expenditure from the stability pact, because these expenditure do not represent costs, they are investments that create wealth and efficiency for the whole of society. the report does not deal with the question of financing a new system of social protection and the mass unemployment in europe. both questions are of vital importance. without shared funding, without financial revenue sharing in the solidarity effort, it will be impossible to achieve the desired goal. unemployment is a permanent burden on the amount of income needed to finance social protection and health care. in conclusion, may i add these two specific answers to specific needs of the peoples of europe. the desire to reach a soft consensus that ultimately leads to nothing only reinforces euroscepticism.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a meeting which i believe we must also examine in the light of our overall strategy: the lisbon strategy. indeed, if we are to succeed in this strategy, we need financial markets that are able to finance the needs of our economies. that is the challenge we face, and that is why we have been working for the last five years to implement this financial services action plan, and that is why we believe we must move forward. many have said, many are saying: we need a regulatory break. commissioner, i know how much you are committed to this. but, as everyone agrees, there are two or three points which we obviously need to go further on. among these topics, i note that my colleague john purvis has just raised the issue of asset management. let me mention two others that you know well. firstly, the retail banking issue and the difficulty of setting up a genuine retail bank which respects consumer rights is one of the key elements if we are to succeed in this area. the second point, after the investment legislation, is the post-market issue, which i imagine will occupy us intensely in the coming months. that said, i would like to make two comments. the first concerns the rights of this parliament. we have agreed to the lamfalussy procedure. since this parliament has a right of callback, we need the means to implement this right at level 2. we must also be vigilant about what happens at level 3, because we know that at this level there could be deviations which we must be able to denounce in due course if necessary. i would like to say a word about the situation of the regulators, because this is a debate which we have not decided in a radical way within our commission. we opened the track, bounced back on what the "himalaya" report is. however, i would like to tell you what we learned when we met cesr and its leaders for the first time in paris. they have made it very clear that if we want regulation to be able to take place at european level, we will need more than benchmarking between national authorities, because this alone will not produce a sufficient level of harmonisation between the powers of the different national regulators in the step-by-step process we are in. that is something we must take into account.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mr lax in particular for our excellent cooperation. parliament will be taking a position on a crucial issue: the reciprocity mechanism for visas. behind the aridity of technical words there is a very real reality: to give substance and to make concrete and positive progress in cooperation between member states in the face of the complexity of the enlarged union's relations with third countries in the field of visas. we are here at the heart of what makes europe rich, namely the respect for law in all its forms in peace and harmony once again. the aim is to build a harmonious space between europe and the rest of the world, where borders are not walls that separate people and nations. the aim is to make europe a recognized space where it is possible to come and go without hindrance, in agreement with third countries, near and far. it is also an act of trust in our 420 million citizens. it was therefore necessary to completely revise a methodology which had been too rigid in order to make progress in this direction. the report, which i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on, takes a fresh look at the necessary amendments to the regulation which has been in force since 2001. in this context, i am very keen to avoid systematising the sanctions currently imposed between the european union and the third countries concerned in the event of failure on both sides. these reprisals often arise from technical or even administrative problems or from inappropriate political choices, which diplomacy must first of all try to resolve. as things stand, reciprocal sanctions do not bode well, nor are they the appropriate response to often complex problems that arise in everyday life. in the end, it is our citizens who pay the price, by preventing free movement, not to mention the very expensive inconveniences that this entails. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our legitimacy as elected representatives in relation to the citizens is also at the heart of this report, which, during the work in committee, has gathered a very broad consensus on the new method to be taken into account. in particular, it is necessary to guarantee all european citizens unhindered freedom of movement outside the union's borders. parliament must therefore be closely involved in this process, since it is clearly the legitimate guarantor of transparency, assuming the democratic responsibility which is its right, deriving from the people who elected it. this in no way diminishes the prerogatives of the commission, whose role is considerably strengthened in order to appear as a credible negotiator vis-à-vis the third countries concerned. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to vote tomorrow in favour of this text, which is a happy combination of the roles of the european legislature and the european executive, united in the service of the citizens and the project that is dear to us: to build a european union solidly around the values of freedom, security and justice.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to welcome the generally fruitful working relationship we have with mr coelho. the proposal under consideration today at second reading allows national vehicle registration services to access certain categories of the schengen information system. the regulation has a clear objective of combating organised crime against vehicles, which is one of our priorities, and we agree with that. we are more reserved, however, about unlimited access to european databases. we must ensure that personal data is strictly protected. in order to strike a balance between the fight against organised crime and the protection of the privacy of european citizens, each decision must also respect the principles of proportionality and purpose. i think we're in agreement on that. i regret that the council was not able to incorporate all our amendments at first reading in its common position. i believe that a record of the persons carrying out the research and the persons to whom it is directed would have prevented abuse. in the spirit of compromise, we support the rapporteur's position of only re-submitting one amendment not included in the common position. an annual report from the council to the european parliament on the implementation of this regulation is absolutely necessary for the representatives of the european citizens to ensure that the principle of finality is properly respected. finally, i would like to point out that my group opposed, at first reading, direct access to the schengen information system by any authority other than those responsible for enforcing the law. i must say that we remain committed to this principle in the context of the forthcoming discussions on the schengen ii information system, which will therefore be the subject of codecision. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat organised crime, including the creation of a european database on crime. our priority is an effective european fight against organised crime, but in respect of the rights and freedoms of european citizens, it is not always superfluous to reiterate this.
the agenda calls for the report (a6-0061/2005) by mrs klaβ, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the protection of groundwater against pollution.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs klaβ's report on groundwater is very complex. but the question that can be asked today is whether the objectives of the water framework directive and the objectives of preventing and controlling groundwater pollution will be achieved through the proposals contained in the report. the conservation of groundwater is indeed a crucial issue since it concerns our drinking water reserves for ourselves, that is, for today, but also for future generations, and for the entire water ecosystem. we know how complex it is to study groundwater, and we know that once a water table is polluted, it stays polluted for years. today, these reservoirs are threatened by a variety of pollutants. some groundwater is already being seriously degraded by the impacts of intensive agriculture using pesticides, phytocides and fertilisers, including nitrates. the application of the precautionary principle would require that pollution prevention be given priority over the restoration or cleaning of groundwater, assuming that it can be seriously considered to easily clean or depollute a groundwater table. to ensure the protection of groundwater, the most urgent of emergencies would be to remove the sources of pollution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. certain indirect releases are excluded: fertilisers and plant protection products used in accordance with good agricultural practice. in fact, this is tantamount to officially accepting agricultural pollution, which is unacceptable, especially since we know that the main cause of groundwater pollution is, of course, agriculture. the position proposed in amendment no 45 must be rejected outright if we are to achieve results in the conservation of water resources. the green group, already disappointed by the commission's failure to go far enough in its initial proposal to ensure that groundwater quality is actually guaranteed, fears that this report will further weaken the commission's own position. if certain amendments were to be adopted, this would be tantamount to allowing pollution and, of course, ultimately making european consumers pay the price for drinking water that has been polluted almost legally. in our view, article 6 and the compromise tabled by the liberal, socialist and european group and ourselves are the most important, since they call for a clear prevention policy which prohibits the most dangerous chemicals and strictly limits other pollutants. that is why we are asking the house to support this compromise.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013). the commission can accept fully, in part, or in principle amendments 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 19, 20, 22, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 55, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 89, 90, 91, 92, 97, 103, 106, 113. the commission is also of the opinion that the proposed amendments are not compatible with the common position. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 3, 4, 7, 10, 11, 16, 18, 21, 23, 27, 40, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 56, 62, 80, 88, 93, 94, 95, 96, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 104, 105, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123. the commission has not yet received the full text of the amendments.
the agenda calls for the report (a6-0068/2005) by mrs handzlik, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the internal market in the new member states: situation, opportunities and lessons to be learned.
mr president, as regards the reference to the baker plan, you all probably know that it has disappeared from the new proposals of the un secretary-general. that is why i tabled amendment no 3. i will also call for a split vote on the socialists' amendment no 15 to remove the reference to the baker plan.
no, because then we would have to vote on amendment no 17, which essentially concerns the baker plan. if amendment no 17 is not adopted, it will concern amendment no 15 by the socialist group.
mr president, i should like to point out that we will have to propose an oral amendment to paragraph 17; we have already told you this.
mr president, we have an oral amendment to paragraph 17. i read the paragraph: 'urges member states and candidate countries to introduce special scholarship and traineeship programmes for disadvantaged roma students'. we propose to add: "and for any disadvantaged pupil".
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive. this directive should not derogate from the principles adopted in the water framework directive. given the great diversity of groundwater in europe, the setting of precise targets can only be achieved at local level. it is unrealistic to want to impose the same standards on the whole of europe. only a limited number of parameters can be the subject of quality standards set at european level. the proposal to limit the parameters for nitrates and pesticides to the european level seems acceptable in this case. on the other hand, certain situations should be relativised. exceeding the quality standard or threshold value does not necessarily mean that the groundwater body is in poor condition; an examination of the causes of exceedance must be carried out in order to apply the measures recommended in the water framework directive to restore water quality. finally, certain local specificities require special consideration of historical pollution without irrevocably leading to the declassification of these water bodies. of course, the measures provided for in the water framework directive to prevent any spread of pollution must apply in these cases.
in writing. every year, the european parliament’s report on human rights tells the world how to respect these rights. however, it does not mention the situation in member states of the european union. i wish to draw attention to the case of marek dochnal and krzysztof maciej popenda, two polish businessmen, who have been in captivity since october 2004. the charges against them have been changed several times, extending with no real legal basis the prosecution procedures which allow them to be detained. this is a violation of article 6(2) of the echr on presumption of innocence. their identities and photographs have been published, in contravention of polish law, to try to put pressure on the judges. information about their private and family lives, not connected with the legal investigation, has been also published, which breaches article 8 of the echr. these two men are victims of political persecution. perhaps this persecution aims to refute the testimony of mr dochnal in front of the parliamentary committee investigating any links between certain polish politicians and certain oil companies. i hope and trust that this parliament will react against this abuse.
in writing. the social and medical situation in europe is grim. we are talking about problems of inequality, of queues, of scientific and technical backwardness. the solutions advocated by parliament will be as ineffective as those of the commission. this desire for modernisation is in fact a concern for european countries which are far removed from the french model. a system that still protects us from such deficiencies that exist all over the world. as regards the ageing of the population, no one will dare to propose that we should finally resort to a real family and natalist policy. the second concern is that in this report on public health terms such as 'market' and 'consumers' are used. more seriously, this report glorifies, for reasons that one can guess, the european constitution in recital a. a treaty which is not in force and must be denounced as an instrument of social regression which threatens the health of the french by levelling it downwards. finally, the term immigration is completely absent from the text. in paragraph 11 we find a concern in administrative terms, when it comes to the ongoing destruction of our societies, not to mention the future arrival of turkey in europe, which is why we oppose a rejection of 'social self-defence'.
mr president, in the west of france, in guérande and saumur, and in spain, in barcelona, there are now nearly 800 jobs that are going to be lost as a result of internal relocations within europe. celestica, a canadian electronic card company, has decided to close its production sites and relocate them to the czech republic, a member of the european union with lower labour costs. the european decision to devote just over 11 billion euros to regions and people affected by restructuring is a good decision. however, in a context also marked by relocations, it is absolutely vital to have a policy of support for employees and for regions which have to undergo relocations within the union's borders. the hope of a european social model for the benefit of the twenty-five countries of the union based on strong social cohesion can only exist if our institutions implement real and important policies of territorial and human solidarity. it is therefore imperative today to give concrete expression to this strong political will by supporting those who suffer from intra-european relocations.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, in reply to my colleague, if there is one directive that is popular or known to all citizens, it is the bathing water directive. personally, i would go even further than this directive: we believe that if the draft bathing water directive remains as it is, it will de facto exclude recreational activities, which will create discrimination between bathers and other users of coastal or inland waters, and we cannot accept that. the commission's version is not at all satisfactory to us and we are now entitled to ask the commission and the council why they insist on not considering other recreational activities to be covered by this bathing water directive. what value will this directive have if it does not offer the same guarantees of safety and water quality for new types of water activities such as surfing, windsurfing and canoeing, which have become - as we all know - commonplace in many bathing waters throughout the european union? these activities and recreational or competitive sports carry as high a risk of ingesting water as swimming, and we are all aware of this. if we fail to listen to the expectations of a younger, younger and ever-growing public and if we remain deaf to the demands of new users of coastal and inland waters, we will really fail in our work as legislators and representatives of our fellow citizens. while in france the debate on the union's competence and role is particularly heated, we have here, with this draft directive, the opportunity to show that the union is listening to a society that is moving and that is able to hear and respond to the expectations of its citizens. the associations which campaign for the practice of sports in good quality waters, for example, have mobilized and collected more than ten thousand signatures to ensure that we integrate recreational sports. to answer the commissioner, i think everyone agrees that investing in water quality is a good idea when it costs nothing. but we must remember that investing in good water quality is an investment in our future.
mr president, this directive is particularly popular. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore have standard information on harmonised measures. every citizen has the same information, whether in belgium, spain, greece or slovenia. i would therefore like to make five comments on this directive. firstly, it is important to put in place the appropriate measures to inform the public properly. secondly, since many local authorities have made considerable efforts to improve the quality of their water, our legislation should not discourage such local initiatives. the directive must therefore be applicable and flexible, as has already been stressed. unforeseen pollution may occur and in this case temporary prohibition measures must be taken, which do not, however, irrevocably lead to the declassification of the municipality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of bathing water is not compromised. such a measure could have serious consequences for the development of tourism in some of our resorts. it's not good to worry the citizens for nothing. the right balance must be struck between the quality of bathing waters and support for tourism, which is a vital sector of our economy. i also think it is important to exclude recreational activities from this directive, otherwise we will see surfers, kayakers, sailors, water skiers and so on disappear from our holiday resorts. i do not think that is very realistic. finally, a distinction must be made between coastal and inland waters, which are of a different nature; we therefore look forward to the european epidemiological study to assess these differences. it is our duty to do everything possible to prevent marine pollution from accidents or from the dumping of gases, which too often harm our coastal resorts.
member of the commission. mr president, on 16 march 2004 the commission adopted a proposal for a council and parliament recommendation on the protection of film heritage and the competitiveness of related industrial activities. cinematography is an art form contained on a fragile medium, which therefore requires positive, quick and effective action from the public authorities to ensure its preservation. films bear comprehensive witness to our times. the protection of the european film heritage, including co-productions with third countries, is therefore in the interest of future generations. in order to ensure that the european film heritage is passed down to future generations, it has to be systematically collected, catalogued, preserved and restored. it should also be made accessible for educational, cultural, research or other non-commercial use; in all cases, in compliance with copyright and related rights. it is therefore the commission’s intention to promote european standards on the cataloguing of films and we have therefore given a mandate to the european committee for standardisation to go ahead with preparatory work. that will facilitate the exchange of information and the interoperability of the databases that are kept by the film archives in all member states. the commission will also promote cooperation between film archives. one advantage of this cooperation will be the possibility of recuperating and restoring so-called ‘lost films’. the report and the amendments discussed today reflect the thorough work by the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs on the one hand, and the presidency on the other. i would like to thank mr hegyi for his very constructive work in that respect. the commission is grateful to all the key players who made it possible to reach a good compromise today. the commission proposal, as amended by parliament, recommends that member states introduce an obligation to deposit cinematographic works that form part of a member state’s audiovisual heritage and that have received public funding. also, and in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, the text gives member states the option as to how to implement this obligation, by law or by means of contract: we leave that up to member states. a recommendation is the best-adapted instrument available for achieving the objectives of the proposed measures. they are: first, strengthening of the film industry by laying the foundations for the explanation of sleeping catalogues by rights holders; and secondly, the systematic deposit, collection and conservation of member states’ visual heritages. the commission is very satisfied –– and i think the citizens are, too – with the prospect of a first reading agreement. the commission accepts parliament’s amendments insofar as they correspond to the political agreement reached between parliament and the presidency and confirmed by coreper on 2 may 2005.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cinema as a whole - past, present and future - is and will remain one of the most vivid artistic testimonies of our member states. europe has an identity which has been shaped by an exceptional accumulation of cultural heritage, including cinema, which has helped both to forge this identity and to safeguard and develop cultural diversity. the aim of the gyula hegyi report is therefore, on the one hand, to ensure the preservation and conservation of our national and european film heritage and, on the other hand, to improve the conditions necessary for the competitiveness of industrial activities linked to this heritage. to achieve these results, it is recommended that the cinematographic works forming part of this heritage be systematically collected, catalogued, preserved, restored while ensuring respect for copyright. another key point in this report is the nature of the deposit of cinematographic works with the bodies authorized by the member states, which should be compulsory by law or by contract. in addition, the material deposited would be a copy of high technical quality, so that future use of the work would be guaranteed. it is also specified that this film heritage would include productions, but also co-productions of films between member states or between a member state and a third state. the idea is also proposed, which i think is interesting, namely the establishment of a network of databases for the european audiovisual heritage, in cooperation with the council of europe and more particularly with eurimage and the european audiovisual observatory. finally, there is one point in this report which i consider essential: it aims to ensure that cinema can be taught at all levels of education and that younger generations also learn a little history, a little daily life, a little sociology thanks to the richness of the european film heritage.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, allow me to congratulate the rapporteur on the exemplary work he has just done on such a crucial subject as the safeguarding and promotion of europe's film heritage. i would like to highlight three crucial points in the report. firstly, it is clear that the cataloguing, preservation and restoration of works are essential to safeguarding cultural diversity in europe. secondly, the report rightly stresses the importance of systematically collecting film works through a compulsory legal deposit system. finally, it should be stressed how fundamental the development of new technologies is to ensure the cataloguing, preservation and restoration of cinematographic works so that they are of the highest quality. i would now like to stress the links between this report and the ongoing discussions on the european programmes in the field of education and media 2007. the report calls for a more active approach by the member states in the field of visual education, in particular vocational training and media culture. as the author of the report on the role of education as a cornerstone of the lisbon process - a report which i will present shortly to the committee on culture and education - i wholeheartedly support this excellent suggestion. our societies have become more tolerant with the development of literacy. it is now a matter of learning collectively how to read the image better, which has become the essential means of communication between people. in conclusion, i would like to point out that while european cinema is already a great heritage, it must continue to be part of our future. to this end, i would like to alert my colleagues to the need to include in the media 2007 programme adequate funding arrangements for european film productions. examples exist: the institute for the financing of the film and cultural industries was set up more than twenty years ago in france precisely to facilitate access to credit for independent producers and distributors. access to bank credit is crucial for these, given the way cinema is financed. i hope that the discussions on the 2007 programme will enable us to find solutions so that european cinema can retain its full vitality.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank mr hegyi for the work he has done and for the openness he has shown in our working meetings, which has resulted in the final drafting of this very comprehensive and well-founded recommendation in a very short time. i am also pleased that a compromise has been reached with the council, which i hope will lead to the adoption of this report at first reading, which will enable the european film heritage to benefit as quickly as possible from all the guarantees which this recommendation will bring. i was extremely pleased that all the amendments i had tabled were supported and adopted by my colleagues in the committee on culture and education and by those in the alde group. i thank them most sincerely for their confidence. this recommendation will undoubtedly give a new impetus to european filmmaking and will be a development vehicle for the works of the new member states. i have paid close attention to the preparation of this document, which is of particular interest to us french people, since we invented cinema. the lumière brothers in lyon were the first to develop the technical process of cinematography and they infused it with its documentary vein. a few decades later, georges méliès invented the fairy tale and the cinematic fiction. all lumière films have been restored by the french film archives and have recently been released on dvd. this has given me the strength to insist on the obligation to deposit an original of the works with a european body and the creation of a database at the european audiovisual observatory, so that nothing is lost. what a joy to be able to relive the magical moments of the watered sprinkler; i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. it is also worth noting the role played by film criticism, a french specialty which has made it possible through its writings to encourage the preservation of works. i am thinking of andré bazin, francois truffaut and henri langlois, who were all very well-known. i am therefore very pleased with this report, which i ask you to support, because cinema deserves a heritage policy, just as buildings, paintings and books do. it's about the survival of that memory, the constitution of that history, the link between the past and the future.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to draw conclusions, but unfortunately we are still far from them. in the meantime, in reply to mrs mann, it is clear that the parliamentary level is of paramount importance. this is why the commission finances trade. i am thinking, for example, of the parliamentary delegation for relations with mercosur. we would therefore very much welcome it if, on their next visit to these countries, the members of parliament, at their level, took matters into their own hands. the problem is that if we want more wto, we'd better wait for the wto to function as it is before we move forward. this is precisely the conflict between countries that want to move forward bilaterally as quickly as possible and others that want to wait for a decision by the wto. i have nothing to add to the commission statement which i made as an introduction to this debate, except perhaps the following few points. it is important that when parliamentarians visit mercosur they are aware that it is defensive on most issues of interest to the european union: industrial tariffs, services, investments, geographical indications and public procurement. the european union's agricultural offer, for example, worth €2.7 billion, is the largest ever made in a bilateral negotiation. as regards the proposals already on the table, we believe that there is an imbalance in favour of mercosur. i'll give you a few examples. the union's offer on the liberalization of trade in goods is more generous than that of mercosur in terms of product coverage, tariff dismantling and the timetable for dismantling. the supply of services to the mercosur market remains unsatisfactory in a number of key sectors of interest to the european union, such as financial services, shipping and telecommunications. the specific requests of the union for services, investment and public procurement are not about gaining wider market access - in practice the mercosur market is already fully open - but about reaching agreement on rules that give legal certainty to our operators in the region. the mercosur has specifically refused to make a bid for such rules on public procurement, intellectual property and geographical indications in the european union - a sensitive subject for countries such as spain, italy and france when it comes to wines and spirits. in short, the commission is at the disposal of the members of parliament to provide them, before they begin their work, with all the information they need to help establish, as quickly as possible and under the best possible conditions, a balanced relationship between the two parts of the world concerned.
the debate is closed. we have exhausted our agenda for this monday.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, this text is not, of course, aimed at uniformising working conditions in the union, which would be neither desirable nor possible today, but rather seeks to establish common bases for the protection of employees. the more favourable social systems, such as french labour law, are therefore not called into question and will remain applicable. this is essential, as you will appreciate, in the context of the debate on the constitution in france and in the face of the concerns raised by the development of european rules in the social field. but the stakes are high. it is up to us as members of parliament to send a clear signal as to the social system we wish to promote at european level. the ambitious objectives of the lisbon strategy make it necessary for the european economy to adapt to new challenges. it is clear that companies need to have a certain amount of flexibility in the management of working time, but we sincerely believe that greater flexibility is not incompatible with a high level of protection of the health and safety of employees. the balance between flexibility in time management and safety of employees requires the definition of minimum standards, safeguarding rules and adequate controls. the debate on the opt-out clause therefore takes on particular prominence in this context. the possibility for an employer to derogate from the legal limit of 48 hours of work per week with the individual agreement of the employees clearly contradicts the spirit of the directive. i would remind you that the plenary, when considering the 2004 report, opposed the continuation of this individual opt-out clause. however, if in a text which does not seek to achieve standardization we wanted the individual opt-out clause to be phased out, we supported the maintenance of an opt-out option which, in accordance with national traditions, would be governed by negotiation and collective agreements. as regards the reference periods, we agree with the rapporteur and the commission to allow an extension of up to 12 months, which corresponds to the flexibility needs of firms, which naturally have to be able to cope with fluctuations in demand. finally, we are convinced that all watch periods should be regarded as working hours. however, the committee on employment and social affairs proposes that member states may allow the calculation of the inactive parts of the childcare period to be carried out according to a specific system in order to comply with the maximum weekly working time. we support this provision, which again takes account of national specificities in this area.
madam president, i expected from this directive what the charter of fundamental rights of the draft european constitution did not contain: harmonization of social rights from the top down. it's not. it's the opposite. the flexibility of the workforce is thus strengthened. while the chicago hangmen died in 1886 for the 8-hour day and the 40-hour week, now at the beginning of the 21st century the great social innovation of the european union should be to raise the ceiling on the maximum weekly working time from 48 hours to 65 hours or even beyond in the case of individual or collective agreement, the reference period for the calculation of the maximum weekly working time being increased from four to twelve months. generally, a compensatory rest period is guaranteed after 72 hours of work. we can only appreciate the social audacity of this text which will probably make the european employers tremble! to top it all off, the concept of a period of inactivity in the care of a child is introduced, a period which would be excluded from working time in complete contradiction to the case law of the court of justice of the european communities. no need for further explanation. the zealous servants of the european employers' organizations have done a good job and although they know, as do those who will choose to vote on this text, that the president has withdrawn the speaker, they are not prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, not the 60-hour week, the opt-out clause must be abolished. i have no hesitation in supporting the text presented by mr cercas. i would first like to support this by referring to the common sense that we should work for a living and not the other way around. it is common sense to understand that, except for tasks clearly demanded by the person who is carrying them out, working, as is the case in some countries of the european union, 60 hours a week - or even worse, 63 hours with the authorization granted in 1993 - eventually poses problems of adaptation to one's personal, family and social environment. in the social field, as in the political field, progress is achieved through compromise. the desire to make the practice of 60 or 65 hours general is contrary to social progress. in this sense, the opt-out clause must be abolished.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted against mr hudghton's report on the revision of the various vat directives because it is really only a revision, without substantive amendment, of texts whose uniformising principles and attempts to undermine the fiscal autonomy of the member states we rejected in their time. in this text we do not see the freedom of the states to set freely the taxation of purely local activities, such as catering, which have no impact on european competition. we see no viability in the application of reduced vat rates to labour activities. we see, however, that the member states will always have to go to brussels to beg for changes in their vat rates. we see that they are still not free to choose which sectors or products are subject to certain rates. we see above all that the announcement made three weeks before the french referendum to reduce vat on catering is a final and pitiful attempt to buy the vote of the french. nothing is done, nothing is decided. enough lies and false promises.
in writing. in order to better protect europe's cultural heritage, europe intends to establish exceptional conservation and protection measures that will preserve the cinematographic heritage and promote the defence of the linguistic, cultural and artistic identities of our old continent. one of the recommendations is to extend the benefit of state aid to cinema. it is a question of extending the cultural exception and of extending the status of exception, which is the exact transposition of what we are defending for france, namely national preference! the commission has decided to extend the current system of state aid for film and television works for three years, even though these arrangements, which are far from satisfactory, would need to be assessed and reformed. in these circumstances, why limit this protection to crops and not extend it to textiles, agriculture, steel, shipbuilding, etc.? does not the commission's globalist logic condemn this moratorium, which distorts free competition, in the long run? only a clear defence of national and european preference will preserve europe from global ultra-liberalism.
in writing. the terrorist attacks of 11 september 2001 have put transport safety at the top of the political agenda. the commission has already proposed that ports, as the essential links in the transport chain linking the flows of goods and passengers by sea and by land, should be subject to security measures. i can only support such an initiative because, as an elected member of the european parliament for the greater north-west region, more than 15 major seaports, vital to local and national economic life, are involved. france is sensitive to this issue because it has three particularly well-exposed maritime facades. the north channel-sea facade (ports of le havre, dunkerque, calais, boulogne or rouen), the atlantic facade (ports of bordeaux, nantes, saint-nazaire or la rochelle which are gateways for trade to the east, north and south of europe), and finally, the mediterranean facade (port of marseille-fos). these security measures should not, of course, be confined to port terminals alone, but should also extend to the whole port and its activities.
the rapporteur. mr president, as the statute of the central bank and the treaties provide, we must renew the members of the executive board of the central bank on a rotation basis which ensures a certain continuity in the performance of the responsibilities of this institution. today we have the opportunity to welcome the way in which the predecessor of the one whose candidature we are to consider, mr padóa-schioppa, has carried out his duties in the executive board. i believe that in his relations with our institution and more generally in his capacity as the directorate's representative outside the institution, he has shown great talent and mastery of these matters. the candidate whose nomination we are considering today is mr lorenzo bini smaghi. your committee on economic and monetary affairs had the opportunity first of all to question him in writing using the questionnaire procedure with which we are familiar and then to hear him at a hearing during which a consensus was reached among the members of the committee. we have been able to verify that his expertise and professional capacity are beyond doubt, as stated in the terms of his mandate. he has all the qualities of a good central banker, with two aspects of added value that i would like to mention: a certain sense of communication - which is certainly very useful for a central banker - but also a vision enriched by a certain multidisciplinary approach. it is a debate we have had here at times: do you simply have to be in the mind of a central banker to be a good member of the board or do you have to have a wider vision and perspective? we believe that mr bini smaghi will be able to bring to the discussions within the executive board that multidisciplinary approach which would enable monetary policy to be more responsive to the needs of the real economy and the aspirations of citizens.
mr vice-president, we agree with you, of course; the first priority is the protection and promotion of fundamental rights. but in your action plan, you have only one new programme for citizenship and fundamental rights. do you think that's enough? we are equally concerned about the growing number of provisions for the repressive arsenal. we are concerned about the extension of the use of biometrics, we are very concerned about the extension of the extended access to the visa and schengen databases and we would like to know what is the state of play of the technical aspects of the use of biometrics in visas. will you take account of the negative opinion of the european parliament in the new discussions with the united states on the transfer of personal data? finally, we reaffirm our concern to maintain a balance between privacy and security.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur on the quality of his work. i, for my part, would like to stress the need to revise the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables as soon as possible, as the european commission undertook to do in its communication of 10 august last. there is a consensus to maintain the cmu in its present configuration. it is therefore not necessary to completely redesign the system. however, the crises which have occurred during the last marketing years, for example in the south-west of france, have shown the urgency of adapting the mechanisms of the cmu. first, in terms of crisis management, there is a need to respond effectively and rapidly to crises of overproduction. a surplus of 5 to 10% leads to a collapse in prices of 30 to 50%. i therefore think it is appropriate to raise the ceiling on authorized withdrawals to 20% of production. i would remind you that the producers are making a great effort in the budgetary field. they produce 15% of the value of european agricultural production and receive only 3.5% of the aid. i believe that the budget available to producer organizations should be increased from 4.1% to 6% of the value of marketed production. the quality and respect of local produce are also essential. finally, as regards the relationship between producers and the distribution sector, i propose that the european union should encourage the establishment of codes of good conduct in the framework of the interbranch organisations recognised in each member state, in order to avoid abrupt falls in producer purchase prices. i shall conclude on the external dimension of this matter, which is crucial. it is essential to control and regulate the level of market opening: maintaining community preference, including fruit and vegetables in the list of sensitive products, reciprocity in the opening up of agricultural trade, including for phytosanitary aspects, these must be the requirements of the union at the hong kong ministerial conference in december 2005 and in the framework of bilateral trade agreements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said in previous speeches, which i shall not go into. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. i would like to stress three points. first, economic and social difficulties are a central cause of the events in kyrgyzstan. the situation of extreme insecurity and poverty provided fertile ground for the development of demonstrations and the overthrow of the regime of askar akayev, which had dominated the kyrgyz economy since 1991. unacceptable practices, including corruption and nepotism, have reinforced a deaf but legitimate discontent among the population, who are longing for an improvement in their situation and we must remain attentive to these aspirations. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. only a legitimate and stable government can carry out the reforms necessary for the well-being of the kyrgyz people. secondly, the question of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is another essential aspect of the present situation. the european union must ensure that the process of democratization is based on genuine political pluralism but also allows the free activity and independence of the media and ngos. cooperation activities undertaken by the osce and under the tacis programme should be supported and encouraged. finally, i think it is necessary to broaden the thinking on the events in kyrgyzstan to include the whole of central asia. the kyrgyz democratization could thus appear as a hope, an example to be followed by other central asian countries, victims of human rights violations. the recent tightening of legislation on ngos and opposition groups calls for a particular listening and vigilance on the part of the european union in the face of the changing political situation in the region.
in writing. the recognition of professional qualifications within the union would be a real step forward if it were not part of a wider strategy to eliminate national borders, which are seen as obstacles to the free movement of goods and people. the nomadism is now promoted as a community value by making geographical and occupational mobility the alpha and omega of the new european man. the system of recognition of qualifications will have to adapt to changes in the world of work or in education systems, in line with the ultra-liberal philosophy which guides the european institutions. in this spirit, the commission has defined a very specific social policy which encourages the qualification and mobility of workers on the basis of minimum training conditions which are supposed to allow better adaptability to labour markets. on the other hand, regulatory and professional bodies have expressed many concerns about the future of certain professions and the quality of training provided in different countries, particularly in the field of public health. finally, the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is a consequence of the directive on the liberalization of services. the bolkestein directive is more relevant than ever!
in writing. the cercas report, approved, despite many shortcomings, by the elected members of the front national, calls for the abolition of the "opt-out" clause which the european commission proposed to maintain. this clause, which allowed some member states to extend the legal duration of weekly working time beyond 48 hours, aggravated european social dumping. in a europe without frontiers, french firms subject to the 35-hour work week would not be able to resist their competitors in european countries, who would apply the opt-out clause. however, we are under no illusions. the adoption of mr cercas' report is only one step. the european parliament today, at first reading, pushed back the european commission because many meps feared the sanction of french voters on 29 may.
in writing. i voted for amendment no 37 calling for the rejection of this draft directive which retains the negative points of the previous legislation such as the opt-out and the cancellation of working time. the rapporteur, mr cercas, is trying to demonstrate the european parliament's intention to get rid of the opt-out within three years, which is a real poison for the future of european social law. i think it is necessary to support him in this. i cannot accept, however, that it does in part allow the calculation of the maximum 48 hours on a 12-month basis and allows the calculation and annualization of working time, both demanded by the employers and a reduction in the taking into account of childcare time. this compromise is not satisfactory and does not constitute in any way a step forward as we would be in european union law. he even has a retrospective. we are at the beginning of the legislative procedure and the vote in favour of the cercas report is only a support for the move to abandon the opt-out. however, at the end of the co-decision stage, i will not approve a working text on a 48-hour basis.
we have now finished with the explanations of vote. i would point out that the sitting will resume shortly at 3 p.m. with statements on the future of europe 60 years after the second world war.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i was born a month before 1945. my parents left germany 72 years ago. in 1933, my father was a lawyer, he defended the red aid and he should have been arrested. i was born exactly nine months after the allied landings in normandy. i am a child of liberation, of a military invasion that liberated european soil and allowed my parents to have a child, a "child of freedom". that's why our memory, my memory, is paved with horrors. auschwitz, the horror, the anus mundi that showed the worst of what human beings are capable of. kolima, the anus mundi who showed what the most barbaric political ideology is capable of. oradour-sur-glane, which showed what a military occupation can bring. katyn, who showed that you can liberate and destroy at the same time. the entire polish elite was massacred by the red army to prevent the polish people from being able to constitute and create an independent state for themselves. we then went on to commit unparalleled but equally deadly and cruel massacres. there were the massacres of the colonial wars, there was srebrenica ten years ago now, day by day. it is because of these massacres that men and women, who do not belong to my political party, but whose greatness i recognize for having succeeded - because they succeeded - in building this europe, whether it be de gaulle or adenauer, willy brandt or helmut kohl, françois mitterrand, whatever, have done something extraordinary. and we are the children of europe, those born after 1945, but we are the children of anti-totalitarianism. this europe was created to prevent the resurgence of totalitarianism, whether of the left or the right, forever. to quote a song known to few: there is no supreme savior, no god, no caesar, no general, no communism, no neoliberalism. there is no ideology that liberates human beings. there is only one very fragile little thing that many people scoff at and it is simply called "democracy". dear friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen! it is always easy or difficult to speak german about the subject "60 years after the war". but germany has known both: the national socialism this barbarism and the communist totalitarism. so germany is also a symbol for europe, and if we today as a generation have an obligation, then it is the obligation to the truth. it is not for me to describe what the political tasks of europe are. that we can do every day. it is only about this that i can take this anti-totalitarian obligation seriously. if we really do realize it, then we must not and cannot in the name of any political realism disregard human rights and respect for human beings. (beifall) we must with russia reden, but we must about chechnya reden. we must speak out against the crime. we must speak with china, but we must speak about the oppression of the people in china. we cannot simply go over the top and say: then we have the embargo. then there's only a few weapons. then they sold a few transrapid. this must not be done in the name of european history! (beifall) because we are committed to this truth and because we believe in europe, we must act in the name of the europe of the future, which was europe at war and which must never again be allowed to be rebuilt. i am proud to be one of those who have european history in their heads, for a constitution to fight for, which represents the heritage of anti-totalitarian europe. i am convinced that we will win. this constitution will become a reality in europe. i believe that this is an obligation we have towards our children as the inheritors of what was left to us by our parents in the womb. (beifall)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr junker's fine speech and some of the accents of the speeches which followed it are a far cry from the disappointing and worrying content of the draft resolution which is being presented to us on behalf of most of the groups on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the nazi capitulation. i am sure that in most of the political families represented in this house there are men and women who will feel uneasy about this text, which is not far from being the beginning of a revision of history. when an institution like ours recalls the event which marked the foundation of europe and the world today, namely the victory of all the allies - american, british and soviet - in the anti-hitler coalition, every word counts. many people, i am sure, expected to read in such a declaration such phrases as: "may 8, 1945, is a day of liberation for europe". why not, since it is the truth, it is a day to which the soviet army contributed decisively. without ignoring the stalinist oppression, many europeans would also have liked to hear from us, in the face of the various manifestations of nostalgia for the third reich, that it is intellectually and morally unacceptable to excuse nazi atrocities by pointing the finger at stalinist crimes, or even to hear - in the context of the war of memory currently waged between the baltic republics and russia - that we must bear in mind the part of responsibility of nazi germany in the tragedy of the baltic states. i should like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that all the words i have just suggested are actually taken from an article published the day before yesterday in the french daily le figaro, signed by mr michael mertes, a former adviser to former chancellor helmut kohl. this is your political family, dear colleagues from the epp! thank you, god! we have lost this war", he concluded, adding a sentence that i would like you to ponder: the way we think about the past tells us more about our present attitudes than about the past itself. at a time when the european union is consulting its citizens on a draft constitution, how will they interpret a conception of an enlarged europe which begins by calling into question the cornerstone of the vision of europe and the world, born on 8 may 1945, namely that nazism was not a dictatorship or a tyranny among others but the absolute break with all civilization? we are ready to have a debate without taboos on the crimes of stalinism, on the german-soviet pact of sinister memory and on the history of the baltic states. but nothing, absolutely nothing, should be allowed to trivialize nazism, whose declared aim - should we remember this? - was to exterminate the subhuman and to extend the living space of the superior race by means of total war. that is why we were entitled to expect a text on 8 may 1945 from the european parliament from a completely different angle. and perhaps it would not have been superfluous, you see, to pay tribute on this occasion to those anonymous fighters, who with no other ambition than to live and act as men and women standing up, engaged in the resistance at the risk of their lives that so many have sacrificed for our freedom. similarly, a word, a single word, about the horror of hiroshima and nagasaki and its tens of thousands of dead in a defeated country would not have been too much. the european parliament has really missed a date with history this time. that is why my group unanimously refuses to support this resolution, which is foreign to the idea we have of a europe of 25, 27 or 30. i leave the final word to a european leader who, 20 years ago, found the right words to speak about 8 may 1945, and in the country where it was most difficult to express them frankly. i am referring to the former german president, richard von weizsaecker. i would like to quote him. we have the strength, the truth, so well we can see in the eye, without glamour and without prejudice. [...][it] was from day to day clearer, was it heute für uns alle gemeinsam zu sagen gilt: der 8. mai war ein tag der befreiung. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report. (beifall)
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr moreno sánchez on his excellent report, which reflects very well not only on its author but also on this house as a whole. i welcome this debate, because i regard parliament as the commission's essential partner in the conduct of our trade policies, that is, in particular, the case in advance of the doha round, which remains our number one priority. mr moreno sánchez has underlined the need to make progress on all the issues in this wide-ranging agenda, with a clear emphasis - which i strongly support - on the objectives of poverty reduction and sustainable development. those were at the heart of the founding charter of this round, and they remain as important today as they were when they were first articulated. since i took office, i have made every effort to advance the dda and to keep it on track. i want doha to put trade at the service of development. that is what i believe in and stand for, and it is at the heart of the policies i am pursuing. however, europe cannot do this on its own. as i said in geneva on my very first day as trade commissioner, the eu cannot be the wto's sole banker. last summer, europe had the courage to put its agricultural export subsidies on the negotiating table. it is now up to others to show their hand. in concrete terms, this round has to yield improved market access and increased business opportunities all round, not only for developing countries - i expect and want them to be the biggest winners of this round - but also for our own industry and service providers in europe. that will enable us to build on europe's strengths in the knowledge economy, for the prosperity and benefit of all. market access in industrial products - nama - and services too are key issues in the round. without progress on these issues, there can be no conclusion to the round. to achieve this, i want to ensure that the more advanced developing countries engage more intensively on non-agricultural issues. thus far, they have pushed hard their case on agriculture, as they are perfectly entitled to do, and as i would expect them to do. however, they have shown little willingness to embrace the necessity of real movement on their part on nama and on services, even where objective analysis suggests this would be in their own economic interest. this has to change. we all have to show a willingness to adapt, to change and to accommodate others' interests. that is why we have made our move on agriculture. the other main industrialised countries now need to follow our example to be more proactive on services and to work on their own agricultural reforms in order to match what we in europe have put forward. last week, several informal meetings of wto trade ministers took place in paris. i expressed my very real concern about the slow pace of the present negotiations. i called on all members to stop playing their cards so close to their chests and start putting them on the table. that goes for all of us, i am not just pointing the finger at others. we all need to do that, not europe alone. i also explained our idea of what an ambitious round should amount to. it requires parallel progress on all three pillars of the agricultural negotiations - not just export subsidies - including the tariffs and quotas that restrict market access. there must be visible efforts by all industrialised countries - not only the eu - to reform their farm policies; and a substantial and real - not just paper - reduction of industrial tariffs by all countries in a position to do this, including the advanced developing countries, always respecting the special circumstances of the weak. offers on services that provide genuine new business opportunities must be tabled and the wto's rulebook substantially strengthened, be this in regard to trade facilitation, anti-dumping or geographical indications. i also renewed my plea for additional efforts to address the specific concerns of the developing countries, and especially - though not exclusively - the poor and vulnerable ones, through special and differential treatment in the round and by the richer parts of the world substantially stepping up aid for trade. you are quite right to identify capacity-building - the essential support we need to give - to enable trade to take place to facilitate that adjustment, so that developing countries, in particular the weaker ones, can genuinely participate in the opportunities for trade that we are advancing through this round. we made progress in paris. we reached agreement on the vital but highly technical issue of the conversion of specific duties - so many euros per bushel of this, so many euros per kilo of that - into their percentage ad valorem equivalents. while the core issue of how much and on what basis these tariff equivalents will be reduced remains to be discussed - that will come later - we now have a basis on which we can move forward on agriculture and, as a result, on all other aspects of the dda. on this i should like to acknowledge and pay tribute to the work of mrs fischer boel. agriculture is a tough subject and i respect how she handles it. we can also expect progress in relation to industrial tariffs in the months to come. many members also reaffirm their intention to submit improved offers on services by the end of this month. we expect intensified discussions among key players between now and the mini-ministerial in china, which will take place on 12 and 13 july. before the summer break, we should see a first approximation of what a possible hong kong package could look like. if there is any chance of an ambitious outcome in hong kong at the end of this year, and thus an ambitious round, this first approximation, which i hope that we can see in july, should, at the very least, firstly, establish areas of growing convergence amongst wto members issue by issue. it should also provide clarity about our shared level of ambition on the core market access issues - agriculture, nama and services; and, finally, identify the key problem areas on which agreement will have to be struck to ensure success at hong kong and then complete the round. i am glad that these ideas are contained in the chair's summary of the paris mini-ministerial. you can rest assured that it is in this spirit of high ambition that the commission will continue to work towards hong kong. the commission wholeheartedly agrees with much of the report, but i just wish to pick out two specific points. regarding the special mention of flexibility for developing countries in paragraph 6 of the report, the commission agrees with the thrust of the point being made. we are prepared to grant flexibility to developing countries through special and differential treatment, both for ldcs and other weak and vulnerable countries. however, we can do this only if we take the level of development into account and that means differentiating between developing countries issue by issue. we cannot simply accept a 'one-size-fits-all'. the second point concerns the suggestion of a 'development box' in the agriculture negotiations mentioned in paragraph 9. the commission can agree that the framework can and should protect eu interests. however, it is over optimistic to say that: '… the eu will be able to cope comfortably with these reductions' in domestic aids that distort trade. on market access, the report assumes that very positive treatment granted to sensitive products will allow the eu to protect its market organisations. this is certainly what the eu hopes, but difficult concessions on some products will still have to be made, even in the best of circumstances. let me finish there. i will listen to what members of this house have to say and respond at the end, if and when i have an opportunity to do so. again, i thank mr moreno sánchez for his report and this house for the opportunity to debate this very important subject.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is of particular importance because we are in a phase of accelerating the negotiations in geneva. you said that last week in paris, the ministerial meeting had progressed. i would like to make four comments, commissioner. firstly, i am very concerned about the attitude of many countries, which are not really engaged in this negotiation. i want to see the total absence of real progress on non-agricultural issues. discussions on market access for industrial products and services are at a standstill, as are those on rules. we cannot accept such an unbalanced negotiation in which agriculture pays for all the other sectors, whereas the european union has already made enormous efforts in this sector. secondly, the success of the negotiating round requires that emerging countries, such as brazil, india and china, take a real responsibility in the negotiations. these countries must also open their markets to other developing countries, because the real engine of development in the years ahead will be the growth of trade between the countries of the south. thirdly, the recent decision of the appeal body on sugar is a reminder that there is no such thing as good faith in negotiations. it is therefore essential to assess each point of the negotiations in the light of wto law in order to avoid that in a few years' time the compromise we have accepted will be overturned by a decision of the wto judges and will probably also penalise the poor countries, commissioner. we need to discuss this again. fourthly, and this is the most important point, which i would like to stress to you, commissioner: the negotiators who are taking decisions today have a heavy responsibility for the future of millions of women and men. it is easy to conclude a negotiation, but i can see that the problems may not arise until a more distant future, when you are no longer in charge. i trust you. but, most importantly, do not leave the problem to your successors. before you sign and say yes, let us think twice about it together to pass on a specific dossier to your successors.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the wto has been the subject of criticism since its inception. today, on the tenth anniversary of the wto, we can take stock and ask ourselves: do we need the wto? in the context of ever-increasing globalisation, we are undeniably forced to recognise that we need a multilateral organisation. but to the other question, do we need this organization in its present form? i will answer in a much more reserved way. the world today still fails to distribute its resources in an equitable way. trade has a great role to play in bringing this balance about, but its current rules have so far remained largely deaf to the demands and needs of much of the world. in view of this, i sometimes naively hope that the hong kong conference, which will take place at the end of the year, will make it possible to change this situation and, above all, finally respond to the hopes raised by the launch of the doha development agenda. last month, from 10 to 16 april, hundreds of ngos and associations around the world raised their voices in favour of fairer trade. i agree with them when they tell us that trade based on the simple principle of laissez-faire and laissez-faire will not lead to a better distribution of wealth, quite the contrary. the reorientation of international trade to give it a real dimension of social and economic justice must be our priority. if we really want to help poor countries benefit from globalisation, we need to rethink the rules of global trade in a more equitable way, linking trade and sustainable development in our thinking. i believe that wto members should therefore include these principles among their objectives, but above all draw the consequences of the practices and rules they have adopted, so that they can then adapt their policies in a fairer and more equitable way. i also wish for a transparent wto, a credible and legitimate organisation, whose decisions could be taken by its members and civil society. as a member of the european parliament elected by the citizens of europe, i can only note, and above all regret, the current lack of information which i suffer in order to be able to exercise my role of democratic control properly. it is even more regrettable that we members of the european parliament have no say in the commission's negotiating mandate. but our future is at stake. while i am concerned about the implications and repercussions of the services directive for our european public services, i am easily outraged by the implications of a liberalisation of services on a global scale which could threaten services, often public services, linked to the basic needs of citizens, in the countries that need them most. if we are generally agreed that services relating to health, education, the cultural and audiovisual sectors should be exempted from the negotiations, we must not forget those relating to basic needs such as water and energy, since we cannot demand that developing countries liberalize these services in such a way as to lead to their dismantling. i would like to remind you that in new york in 2000 we committed ourselves to eight of the millennium development goals. these development objectives cannot be disconnected from the doha development agenda and the ongoing negotiations. we cannot make promises one day that we can quickly forget the next. the case of the philippines is one of many examples of the negative effects of water liberalisation. indeed, following the liberalisation of the water supply in 1997, not only did the price of water rise by 600%, but the quality of the water itself fell so much that it is now causing diseases. i'm very worried that we'll never be able, by 2015, to halve the percentage of the population that doesn't have sustainable access to water. and when there is no access to water, there is no life.
mr president, the chinese textile case is just one example, mr mandelson, of a much larger problem. in international trade, two contradictory elements must be reconciled: first, of course, the need to trade and therefore to remove barriers; second, the need to maintain the balance of trade and the need to eliminate barriers to trade. the second is the need to ensure job security, social acquis, etc. in golf, we solve this problem by creating a handicap between the pro and the amateur. in international trade, the handicap of tariffs had been created. but since 1947, under gatt and the wto, it has been decided to reduce customs duties first and then to abolish them. article 341 of the constitution confirms this. the consequence is obviously the chinese affair. the solution, mr mandelson, is to invent a new customs technology. instead of reducing and abolishing customs duties, you, commissioner mandelson, should propose to the wto the deduction of customs duties by which the importer would open up to the exporter a customs credit, a kind of economic drawback on the importer's economy. under this system, chinese textiles arriving in europe would be subject to a customs duty; it would open up a customs credit to china, which could only be used for the purchase of products from the european economy. it would create a virtuous circle. it's the system of offset contracts, offshore contracts. it is the marshall plan system, but the credit is opened, in this case, by the customs duty itself. this would solve the insoluble problem of relocations by means of a new customs technology.
mr president, commissioner, china's accession to the wto in 2001 was in principle a guarantee of balance in trade relations between china and the european union. however, this balance is distorted when the rules of the game in international trade are not respected. i would like to speak first of all about the measures needed to protect intellectual property, and let us not forget that this is in accordance with the wto agreements. these measures contribute to an effective fight against counterfeiting and piracy. it is now up to the european union to enforce these agreements protecting textile designs and designs, in order to ensure the sustainability of our textile industry. finally, when we are faced with what is recognised as a disruption of the market, and i am of course referring here to the spectacular growth of chinese textile products, as you yourself have confirmed, then we must apply the legal instruments available to us in the wto. so do you not think, commissioner, that it is imperative today, when all the indicators are in the red, to initiate an emergency procedure to allow the implementation of safeguard measures? why are you taking so long at the expense of our industries, at the expense of industries in countries close to us? commissioner, time is running out. it is not a question of implementing protectionist measures, but of making china understand that its membership of the wto entails both rights and duties.
in writing. china's economic dynamism and its impact on the european economy have highlighted the inability of the european institutions to defend fragile industrial sectors such as textiles. the principle of dismantling the quantitative limits of the multifibre arrangement was agreed in 1986 at the launch of the uruguay round of multilateral trade negotiations. at that time, china was not a major supplier of textiles and was not a member of gatt. many french textile companies had already relocated to the maghreb or egypt. similarly, when the uruguay round agreements establishing the timetable and method for the abolition of quantitative restrictions were signed in 1994, china was not a member of the new wto, which it joined only in 2002. the criticism of china cannot therefore conceal the responsibility of the commissioners and the governments of the union for the enormous difficulties facing the textile industry, which unfortunately extend to other sectors. the scandal is also that we have agreed, in the name of world trade, to conclude agreements with the greatest totalitarian country on the planet which violates all the human, social and economic principles on which europe is supposed to be built.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a pure gem of official propaganda in which the commission and governments excel in building their new world. the foundations of european politics are marked by utopia, demagogy, political correctness and a lack of reference to the values on which our civilization was founded. to this desire to make us forget who we are, in the manner of the communists who wanted to wipe out the past, we can add a commercial dimension which places the communication of the union in a market logic that goes so far as to evoke the promotion of a brand "europe" in the same way as a vulgar pack of laundry. the main target of this communication is still children, who are of course more malleable in the minds of the europeans. they are even promised to define a soul for this new europe. funny expression, when you've rejected any reference to christianity in your draft constitution. the icing on the cake was the possibility of granting financial rewards to media outlets which had been able to convey the idea and values of europe. corruption is being reinvented, but at european level. it's a good one. in france, we are well placed to judge how you view information. in the midst of the referendum campaign, 14,000 billboards were placed in violation of the electoral law, on which you can read selected, truncated articles, inviting you to vote yes. all this seems to us to be extremely worrying about the future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the floor. first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur and the non-existent rapporteurs on the work they have done on such a fundamental subject as the implementation of the european union's information and communication strategy. i would like to begin by emphasizing the context in which we are called upon to express our views on the union's information and communication policy. some of us have been very involved for several months in referendum campaigns for the constitution. the very many public meetings i attend keep alerting me to the fact that many of our fellow citizens do not know the basic rules and policies of the european union. i therefore want to support this report and emphasize three crucial points in it. first, greater attention must be paid to the content of the messages in order to arouse the interest of citizens in accordance with their respective concerns. the recent televised debate between president chirac and young french citizens once again underlined the difficulty of political leaders in highlighting the positive impact of the european union on the daily concerns of our citizens. it is also clear that only a decentralised system can facilitate access to information for a greater number of european citizens. i would like to mention here, for example, the excellent work of the european parliament information office in my region, marseille. finally, i am convinced, as the report emphasizes, that information and communication policy will only be effective if knowledge of the european union and its institutions is integrated as a subject in its own right in the curricula of the member states. (applause) i would like to thank
i'll take your statement to heart. i think that was on the agenda, but i will contact the appropriate authorities.
i'll take this to the bureau.
we move on to the votes.
the president of the committee on budgets has therefore taken a decision on the basis of rule 151 (3) and we shall now proceed to the vote. before the vote on paragraph 28
in writing. for 2007-2013, the european commission is proposing around €1 trillion in appropriations for 7 years. this is equivalent to 1.24% of european gdp in commitment appropriations. for the european budgetary expenditure for 2007 to 2013, our commission has engaged in a simple accounting debate on whether we will spend in seven years, 1 022 billion euros as the european commission wants, 987 billion as our rapporteur proposes or 977 billion as the major contributing countries want. france, instead of losing 3 billion euros a year, may lose 5 or even 7 billion euros. the united states budget, at $2.5 trillion a year, is 20 times the annual budget of the european union. this is the measure of europe: a global discourse, a budgetary worm. it is therefore clear that this distortion will be intolerable. from 2014 onwards, two questions will arise: the explosion of the european budget and the arrival of taxation. these are the two silences in our committee's resolution which leaves taxpayers voting on the european constitution under budgetary anaesthesia.
in writing. we are in a new round of international trade negotiations. it is astonishing that we continue to negotiate more and more liberalization of world trade without ever taking a real economic and social assessment of this liberalization. the european union is the only country in the world that follows wto rules. it is the most open market, the least protected, including against dumping, unfair practices and counterfeiting. it too often refuses to take the necessary retaliatory or safeguarding measures, as in the case of the chinese textile industry. at the same time as it opens up our economies to fierce global competition, the eu is increasing regulations that hinder our businesses from competing with that competition, and making little effort to open up markets to european exports that are closed to them by exorbitant customs tariffs or regulatory barriers. the ecb is doing nothing about the notoriously overvalued euro, which is depressing our exports and further facilitating cheap imports. the rapporteur is right. global trade is not fair. but the main victim, in terms of unemployment, increasing poverty, social insecurity, closing down of businesses, is europe. with the commission's complicity.
in writing. this report is a pure gem of the official propaganda in which the commission and governments excel in building their new world. this text demonstrates, if it were still necessary, that the european project is first and foremost a totalitarian project which aims to instill a new way of thinking, acting and living. the foundations of european politics are marked by utopia, demagogy, political correctness and the absence of reference to the values on which our civilization was founded. to this desire to make us forget who we are, in the manner of the communists who wanted to wipe out the past, we can add a commercial dimension which places the communication of the union in a market logic even going so far as to evoke the promotion of a "brand europe", in the same way as a vulgar pack of laundry. the main target of this communication is still the young, who are the most malleable in the minds of the europeans. they are even promised to "define a soul" for this new europe, a funny expression when you have refused any reference to christianity in your draft constitution. we have a soul or we don't have one and europe doesn't have one! the idea of a european media is to be a good one, and the idea of a european media is to be a good one. we are reinventing corruption, but at european level. it 's promising . the european project which you are building for us is a monstrous project, as it recalls methods and processes which have proved their worth in other totalitarian systems of sinister memory, but never forget that resistance to oppression is an inalienable right of peoples who wish to remain free.
president of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. mr president, i would simply like to protest on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs against the change in the agenda. you have given the floor to the rapporteur. i would stress that while we can understand these translation issues, they are nevertheless disrupting the whole of our work, whether in committee or in plenary. there is a real problem here which i imagine you will be anxious to solve so that we can return to a normal parliamentary work rhythm. as regards the legislative dimension of the text which has just been removed from the agenda, i would add one point. it is a text on which the council has asked us to work so that we can get an agreement at first reading. your committee on economic and monetary affairs was in a position to act in this direction, but since this text was adopted in committee it is still waiting for it to be adopted by the plenary. i regret it, as do many of my colleagues.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ten months after the commission took office, we can only rejoice at this outcome, although i imagine, madam commissioner, that from the point of view of method, as you yourself are in some ways the champion of transparency within the commission, you must not be completely satisfied with the negotiating conditions of this agreement and think that there are still improvements to be made next time. as far as the economic and monetary affairs committee is concerned, this agreement concerns us in three respects. firstly, conflicts of interest: we expect full implementation with, i hope, full transparency. then there is the comitology, and i thank you for the reminder. the committee on economic and monetary affairs considers that the implementation of the lamfalussy procedure is acceptable only if it is carried out in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement which we drew up during the previous parliamentary term, which allows 'full account to be taken of the position of the european parliament' on an equal footing with the council's deliberations. finally, the implementation of the new lisbon strategy and the way in which this parliament is involved in the adoption of the employment guidelines and the broad guidelines for economic and monetary policies. we support the idea that the national parliaments must be involved from the outset and must take ownership of this process, this strategy, but this cannot be done at the expense of the conditions for defining the european parliament's position. but you know that we have a problem with the timetable and i am counting on your complicity and support so that this parliament can adopt its contribution to these broad guidelines under the right conditions.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mrs gál's report enables us to set the european parliament's priorities for the extension of the mandate of the european monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia to become a fundamental rights agency. we want the creation of this agency to make it possible to set up a real policy on fundamental rights. it is not unnecessary to repeat that our first priority in creating an area of freedom, security and justice is the active promotion of fundamental rights. i would like to remind you that the inclusion of the dignity of the human person in article 1 of the charter of fundamental rights was a real revolution in meaning. we must conduct ourselves and governments must conduct themselves in a way that respects the dignity of each and every individual, the basis of the dignity of every citizen. the human person will be free because he will have a place and rights in our society which we will have organized in this sense. and we all know that the right to speak, to write, to choose its representatives and to live as one chooses has no real meaning for the person who, in his or her daily life, lacks the material means necessary to ensure his or her dignity. we all know that without the necessary dignity, universal rights are likely to be enjoyed by only a few. commissioner frattini has given commitments to present the report on the creation of the fundamental rights agency under a codecision procedure. we have heard what you have just said, commissioner, but we reiterate that we are absolutely committed to this procedure. meps are the elected representatives of the european citizens. the creation of a fundamental rights agency which has a direct impact on the daily lives of citizens, the opinion of the european parliament must be clearly heard.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr nassauer's report enables us to extend the fight against money laundering to terrorist financing by complying with new international requirements. the work with the rapporteur has been very constructive and i am particularly grateful to him for that. parliament's positions were heard by the council, which made it possible to reach compromises, particularly on three essential points which we support. as far as the legal professions are concerned, we wished not to go back on the acquis of the last directive. this allows us to maintain a balance between the obligations related to verification and identification requirements and the preservation of the rights of defence and individual freedoms. we are very sorry, however, that the threshold for cash payments has not been lowered to eur 10 000 and that the threshold for the percentage of shares held remains at 10%. in the same way, it would have seemed preferable to us that the identification and verification of casino customers be done for an amount of eur 1 000. the problem remains, however, with the tax and banking havens, some of which remain active in europe. we therefore regret that the amendment tabled in committee by mr costa and mr peillon was not accepted. it is also worth noting that the question of judicial and police cooperation remains central and decisive in the context of the fight against money laundering, even if it does not fall within the scope of the directive. today too many obstacles are still being put in the way of satisfactory and effective cooperation by the member states. we may regret it.
mr president, this report, which has the merit of calling for the extension of two community action programmes on gender equality, which i fully support, gives me the opportunity to highlight the shortcomings and deficiencies in this area. why and what are the reasons for such shortcomings in respect for women's rights? the main factors to be noted are ignorance, archaic and sometimes barbaric conceptions of women's place in society, male domination in the workplace and the feeling of guilt on the part of women. indeed, when women stand up for gender equality, they are accused of feminist behaviour or of being man-haters. the fight for equality and the approximately 50 million euros allocated for 2001-2005 seem to be a petty sum in the face of rigid attitudes and inertia. because what do we see? the gaps between wages for equal qualifications are still enormous, violence is still increasing, discrimination on grounds of sex in access to education, training and employment persists, and it is still as difficult for women to reconcile family life and working life. a final word on the european constitution which we frenchmen are obliged to approve or reject. it contains nothing that actually contributes to women's rights, it only contains general principles on non-discrimination and gender equality. so if only for women's rights, let's start by resisting by voting no to this draft constitution.
mr president, commissioners, i have three points to make. firstly, as regards method, the european parliament is fully aware of the importance of national appropriation of these subjects. that is why we held a meeting with our colleagues in the national parliaments on 25 april. i think that this is a first that we will have to renew if this debate is to be a genuine debate on the broad lines defined at european level, in association with the member states, and implemented by the member states themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that in the future we will reach a good agreement. my second point concerns the general climate. trust is not something you make up and it's not there. so, although we may talk about structural reforms, they will not be acceptable, they will not be acceptable in the current climate. first we must restore growth and with it we can carry out the necessary structural reforms. i would like to say to my colleague, mrs piia kauppi, and i think she knows this, that the question of reform does not arise under the same conditions in a small and a large country. we must also think of our collective space in this spirit. when the oecd sends signals to the central bank and the central bank responds as it has just done, there are concerns about the nature of the macroeconomic debate at the european level. thirdly, in this general climate, the tool we have in our hands, the broad economic policy guidelines, should be the fundamental tool for ex ante work. all too often, however, these seem to be empty words with no effect. we must make these broad guidelines a rigorous tool for coordinating economic policies if the lisbon strategy is to be a success in the future and if we are to avoid a half-hearted assessment like the one we had before the revision of the strategy. in support of the overall strategy, the broad guidelines are a tool, but they will be of no use if, behind them, there is no reform of the stability pact that is up to the challenge, if there are also no financial perspectives that make it possible to finance solidarity for all.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation. today, too many claims are made on our food products, leaving the consumer confused when it comes to making a choice. moreover, some overly general claims such as "healthy" or "good for the body" have no scientific justification and may even mislead the buyer. it therefore seems perfectly fair that those who market food with a nutritional claim can justify the nutritional claim. it is in this spirit that this regulation has been drawn up. this system should not, however, penalise local enterprises and smes. i am therefore in favour of measures which provide these structures with special assistance for the preparation of dossiers and the costs involved.
in writing. in 2000, at the lisbon european council, we were promised that by 2010 the european economy would become the most competitive in the world. the mato adrover report finds that the growth and employment targets are not being met. we're not surprised at all. the miracle that was supposed to happen in 2010 will not happen. the proposal for new guidelines is just another expression of goodwill which insults the millions of people who live in social insecurity, precariousness and poverty. this demagogic auction is a smoke screen that hides an unbearable future for workers threatened by "job dumping" where they will have to sell themselves at the best price while the factory "china" and the farm "brazil" destroy our economy deliberately delivered to the commercial logic of savage globalization. the reality in europe is the loss of jobs and the flight of large companies to the east before they leave europe for good. the reality is that jobs are going out and immigrants are coming back needlessly. in the face of all this talk, it is time to act so that national and community preference and protection finally apply in a more controlled economic and employment market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we would like to congratulate mr pöttering on the good advice he has received over the weekend. we had the last thursday... yes, and you were against it! we suggested last thursday. you slept well over it, mr pöttering. thank you very much. (laughter and applause)
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, for having taken over this proposal on the guidelines for trans-european energy networks and for having carried out a focused analysis in her report which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on industry, research and energy. i would like in particular to express my gratitude for her commitment, together with that of the shadow rapporteurs, in aiming for an agreement at first reading which, i very much regret, has not been achieved. let me recall on this occasion the objectives of the proposal. the challenge of the proposal is to build a legal instrument that will be efficient in delivering the necessary energy transmission infrastructure, while developing the appropriate cooperation with the private sector and the member states. the security of energy supply and the functioning of the internal energy market are key policy issues. these objectives are taken up in the trans-european energy – ten-e – guidelines aiming at the installation of an electricity and gas network of truly european character by better linking the fragmented national networks. concerning natural gas, there is a strong growth perspective. the trans-european energy networks policy aims at securing and diversifying additional gas import capacity from sources in russia, norway, the caspian basin region, northern africa and the middle east, and providing the necessary interconnection capacity between member states. concerning the electricity networks, the main function is to create and foster a real european electricity market. for this objective, sufficient interconnection capacity between member states is essential. since the adoption of the existing guidelines for trans-european energy networks in june 2003, the need has arisen fully to integrate the new member states and candidate countries in these guidelines and further to adapt those guidelines to the new european neighbourhood policy. the revision of the ten-e guidelines proposed by the commission in december 2003 should be seen as a complement to and an improvement on the existing guidelines. it aims at explicitly incorporating the ten new member states into the priority projects, as well as the incorporation of essential energy connections with third countries. as to the choice of the projects, we have proposed to introduce a top-down approach, identifying the projects of highest priority on the priority axes from the larger family of projects of common interest. the projects of european interest are those of highest priority. they have the objective of supporting the rapid implementation of the most important cross-border interconnection capacity. to achieve this aim, the projects of european interest need to comply with special criteria. they must be situated on a priority axis. they are of a cross-border nature or have significant impact on cross-border transmission capacity. they must be mature: that means that a firm commitment must exist to start before the end of 2006 and that the projects need to be completed by 2010 at the latest. another essential element of our proposal is the european coordinator. the european coordinator will encourage cooperation with users and operators, and promote the projects amongst private investors and financial institutions. a coordinator may be designated by the commission and will act in the name of, and on behalf of, the commission. i now look forward with great interest to your debate on the proposal.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his kind words. ladies and gentlemen, i should also like to thank my fellow rapporteurs for their opinions, who have accompanied me throughout my reflections and have made a major contribution to the report i am presenting to you today. i would also like to thank the representatives of the european commission and the representatives of the council for their attention and for the answers to the many questions raised. i would also like to thank the secretariat of the committee on industry, research and energy and my assistant for their help. commissioner, you have mentioned the objectives of this proposal for a decision. the aim is to adapt the guidelines to the configuration of the european union of 25 member states, to allow the financing of projects of common interest, to enable the completion of the internal market in gas and electricity and, above all, to ensure security of supply through interconnections between the member states and with neighbouring countries: south-east europe, mediterranean countries, ukraine, belarus. this approach for the transeuropean energy networks corresponds in fact to the approach adopted for the transeuropean land transport networks. the committee on industry, research and energy supports the new concepts introduced by the european commission to define priorities for action, in particular the qualification of projects of european interest on priority axes and the appointment of a european coordinator, provided, however, that this is limited to complex projects with particularly difficult implementation conditions and that it is done in consultation with the member states. parliament must also be consulted on the appointment of the coordinator, that is the meaning of the amendment proposed by my group. the report voted by the committee on industry encourages the member states to cooperate with each other where necessary by implementing transnational investigation procedures taking into account determining criteria such as security of supply, the impact of the project on the environment, the opinion of the population of the territory concerned, etc. on the basis of the information provided by the council, the industry committee considered that the approach advocated by the council was consistent and simplified the original proposal of the european commission. the report voted by the committee on industry thus establishes a hierarchy of projects: projects of common interest which form the basis of transeuropean projects are listed in annex iii and priority projects qualified as projects of european interest are listed in annex i. the industry committee did not wish to challenge the projects drawn up by the member states because it did not consider itself to have a sufficient level of competence or information to criticise the choice of projects. however, following the comments made by some of my colleagues, i would ask the european commission to check carefully, when implementing this decision, the validity of the projects. for example, our colleagues in the baltic states think that it would be more appropriate to have a gas transmission network which crosses the baltic states in order to allow them to be supplied rather than an offshore network in the baltic. another example is the tht line between france and spain, which has been the subject of intense protests by the inhabitants of the region. this is why the financial envelope for projects should be increased to eur 60 million, for example to better address environmental constraints, which may require more comprehensive feasibility studies. the aim is to validate projects, coordinate the consultation procedures between the member states and find the most appropriate technical solutions. before concluding, i would also stress that the committee on industry justifies the inclusion of olefin transport in this text not only in view of the importance of such networks on european territory for the european chemical industry, but also in view of the safety and environmental gains which result from a reduction in road transport. in addition to access to the european investment bank, the mention of projects related to olefins guarantees a symbolic european label. however, it does not allow these projects to benefit from european subsidies under the transeuropean networks envelope. i also think it is necessary to start thinking about the integration of the transeuropean energy networks into the european corridors envisaged for the land transport sector.
mr president, i would like to welcome, as mrs schierhuber does in her report, the creation of a single fund for financing rural development policy and a stronger strategic orientation. as regards the financial allocation for 2007-13, i regret that a reduction in resources is envisaged in the financial perspective. i also regret that the proposal for a regulation no longer provides for a grace period for young farmers, as was the case during the 2000-2006 programming period. that is why i support the re-establishment of the existing system. one solution could be that, where upgrading requires investment, a five-year period after installation could be granted for such investment. during this period, young farmers will continue to benefit from investment aid and will not be penalised for non-compliance with the standards clearly identified in the agricultural development plan. finally, convinced that rural areas are becoming more attractive, i tabled amendments to make this regulation more favourable to rural development, in particular by boosting its non-agricultural component, which includes craft and micro-enterprises.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteurs and all the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, who have been particularly involved in this work and debate. we must show our determination by finding a common response to the fight against terrorism, because terrorist organisations cross borders to commit their crimes. that is why we believe that the only effective response to terrorism is a european response. the european union action plan against terrorism must be the union's first policy tool in this area. we must therefore be ambitious in providing concrete answers to the problems underlying terrorism and fundamentalism. however, we cannot confine ourselves to a security policy, because terrorism is the denial of freedoms. that is why we must oppose it above all by actively protecting and promoting fundamental rights. this priority of the hague programme must also be central to our policy. we must promote the values of democracy and solidarity in order to combat the causes of terrorism. we must combat situations of extreme poverty and social exclusion, which all too often create conditions conducive to extremist discourse. in the union we must fight against discrimination, racism and xenophobia. but it would also be unacceptable if the fight against terrorism fostered new forms of discrimination. we must also find a way to coordinate the european union's policies to combat internal and external terrorism. it is necessary to encourage dialogue with third countries, which must above all make possible co-development. no one should be driven to desperate measures by a precarious situation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's transport policy. we must therefore continue our work with the adoption of legislative and operational measures and the european arrest warrant is a first tool. the third directive on money laundering, including the financing of terrorism, will also provide us with the means to combat the networks that supply terrorism. we therefore call for europol and eurojust to be strengthened so that they can really coordinate the fight against terrorism and organised crime in europe. we must also provide citizens with guarantees regarding the protection of their privacy. this will only be possible if data retention is provided as an instrument in the first pillar, in order to ensure the protection of personal data. unfortunately, this process is being slowed down by the lack of political will on the part of the member states to ensure that european decisions are really effective. in conclusion, i would say that hatred, violence and fear have always drowned reason. we live in an age of fundamentalism accompanied by fanaticism and terrorism. the world seems to be on fire politically and economically and we in the union must restore confidence in democracy and fight against all the injustices that are the breeding ground for violence.
mr president, i believe that, as regards the challenge of effectively combating terrorism while fully respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, we have - as has just been said - both our hands tied because of the french 'no' and also a major problem and handicap: we do not have an international definition of terrorism! so we have no legal recourse, no legal certainty, no guarantee and no protection. i therefore believe that the european union, both internally and internationally, must work to ensure that we really have a recognised definition. mr van hecke proposes a simple definition: terrorist equals muslim. mr. putin has another one: terrorist equal to chechen. the chinese have more. i believe that with this very extensive, abusive and arbitrary use of the concept of terrorism, we are losing our ability to act effectively in the fight against terrorism. i therefore believe that we as the european union must make a very important effort, and very quickly - for example at the next un general assembly - to obtain this essential definition of terrorism, which will also allow for real cooperation between states, at european and international level.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
we now proceed to the votes. (for the results of the votes and other details concerning the votes: see minutes)
this means that the council maintains its proposal. therefore, pursuant to article 52 (3) of the regulation, the text is referred back to the committee responsible with the observations of the president of the council.
mr president, i would like to inform you that we have withdrawn amendment no 14 in recital q.
amendment no 1 was put to the vote and was adopted. before the vote on amendment no 4
so we are inserting this amendment in amendment no 4 and putting amendment no 4 twice revised to the vote.
in writing. terrorism was once the weapon of the communist revolutionary international. he is now in the service of the islamic revolutionary international, whose aim is the destruction of western civilization and the establishment of islamic republics throughout the world and especially in europe. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. by the use of terror, whether violent or not, the islamists want to gain control of the muslim masses in order to put them at the service of the revolution, and on the other hand, to paralyze our nations. the electoral defeat in spain of the aznar government, which was considered hostile to islamists, a few days after the march 11, 2004 attack by moroccan immigrants, is part of this strategy. so too with the murder of the dutch filmmaker theo van gogh. the demands for the islamic headscarf and for halal menus in school canteens are the beginning of this process of subversion. mass terrorism is the final step. as long as we do not realise the reality of the danger, islamist terrorism will continue its revolutionary jihad.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, the epp supports the guidelines adopted by our temporary committee on the proposal of its rapporteur, reimer böge, whom i would like to congratulate on behalf of our group. thanks to him, parliament will be ready in time. the strong message of this report is that the union cannot expand and strengthen itself with a constant budget. president barroso has reminded us of this. for us, the main thing is first of all the financing of policies linked to the lisbon agenda: transeuropean networks, research, academic exchanges, the knowledge economy. the most important thing is also solidarity: scrupulous solidarity with our new partners and solidarity throughout europe with those who are victims of industrial conversion or geographical difficulties. as regards the financing of the common agricultural policy, the commitments made to farmers up to 2013 must be honoured. but if it appears that the needs are higher than these figures, the supplements should be made by the member states. with or without a constitutional treaty, the council and parliament have strongly expressed their common desire to see economic union gradually transformed into a genuine political union. our priorities in this context are the fight against terrorism and serious crime, as well as the new neighbourhood policy. mr president, we are well aware that the total amount of needs assessed by our temporary committee falls short of the ambitions of our parliament. unfortunately, it is not possible to go any further today without a thorough reform of the own resources system. the committee on budgets wishes to work on this in close liaison with the national parliaments. we are convinced that it will be possible to find consensual solutions together, without which the union would remain permanently unable to finance its political ambitions. (applause from the right)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank mr böge and the whole team who, under your presidency, have worked to ensure that parliament has a position worthy of its role as a branch of the budgetary authority. we have therefore tried to develop proposals to ensure the revival of economic activity and to strengthen european solidarity, while maintaining the acquis essential to construction. we are aware of the difficulties faced by some member states and have therefore had to draw up transitional financial perspectives. our negotiations have resulted in a very reasonable project, but one which contains essential elements for growth. our task is to increase the added value of european assistance in relation to national budgets and to give europe the means to implement a project of shared progress. it should be remembered that in the long run, expenditure at european level generates national savings, not least because it allows for economies of scale, and often allows for innovations and policies that we could not have done independently. with a budget of 1.07 per cent of gdp in payment appropriations, we have the means to ensure future-oriented policies and it has also been necessary to break certain taboos. i am thinking of the financing of the cap, which must be revised if necessary to ensure greater equity in expenditure. i am also thinking of the british rebate, which must be called into question to make the own resources mechanism fairer. i am also thinking of the cohesion fund, for which we must set up a transitional mechanism so as not to penalise member states which leave it. in addition, all the institutions are called upon to make efforts in the economic and operational fields. finally, when we look at the level of payment appropriations, it will not be possible to separate the two parts proposed: 1.7% for payment appropriations and 24.2 billion for the flexibility instruments which are essential to develop the policies essential to growth and solidarity in the union and in the world. i would also like to stress two aspects. the first concerns our disappointment at not being able to finance the whole of natura 2000 development outside the rural development which we were so keen on. the second concerns our request, as socialists, to provide the european development fund with ad hoc resources, which is an indispensable tool for improving decentralized cooperation. finally, i would like to conclude by saying that europe is currently facing difficulties which i will not go into in detail. but the fact is clear: our citizens are waiting for a real europe, a europe that speaks to them, a europe that communicates with them. and that's why it's very important to look at this new category. we are now having a very difficult time finding a political programme for europe. we have goals, but not enough big plans and too few resources. we must meet that expectation and i am addressing this directly to the council. it is high time the council lived up to european expectations. it is urgent that you face your responsibilities. we all need this budgetary framework to restart and regain the confidence of the citizens. we must overcome national egoism and bring the european political project back to maturity. there is nothing too much to ask, and that is why we ask you to come to us.
mr president, like many other members, i too would like to congratulate our colleague, mr reimer böge, on the work he has done, on the coordination work he has carried out. however, i also believe that it is fair to say, mr rapporteur, that many of our colleagues in this house have shown responsibility and have worked effectively to achieve the consensus of more than two thirds that you mentioned earlier. i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the council and commission, to listen very carefully to this appeal from parliament, to listen to it because it contains wise positions, and this particularly on two levels. we are not talking about the budget, but about the budgetary aspects, and i am not talking about the budgetary aspects. in the spending area, because we were able to make proposals capable of controlling a certain number of expenditure, and in the resources area, because in the end - as one of the previous speakers, from the council, has reminded us - well, depending on the items, we will have increases, from about 8 to 15%, if i remember correctly the figure advanced earlier. so financial wise. politically wise positions too, because on the one hand there is a coherence between the will expressed in these financial perspectives and the objectives of lisbon and gothenburg and, on the other hand, our fellow citizens who will take the trouble to understand the content of these financial perspectives will find in them - i think - our will to enhance our territories, while strengthening our capacity to dominate the future. i therefore welcome the positions adopted by parliament on this böge report and i therefore invite the commission and the council to hear it. i would also like to say, as has been said, that i very much hope that on 17 and 18 june we will be heard, that the council will listen to us, that we will be heard positively. it is absolutely essential that the council's conclusion should not be presented as a cheap decision but, on the contrary, as a very positive step forward for our europe.
mr president, the soviet union had a total of ten economic plans. the european union already has four budget plans: the delors i and delors ii packages, santer and now barroso, for 2007 to 2013. the soviet plans, however, were building, whereas the european budget plans were weighing. they weigh fly eggs with spider web scales. our debate is an example of this: the 311 pages of the böge report are in fact about whether 450 million europeans will commit 1.24%, 1.06% or 1.7% of gdp, whether we will spend in seven years 1024 billion euros, 870 billion euros, 825 billion euros, even though the united states, during the same period, will spend 20 000 billion dollars, that is, twenty times more. the difference between us, of some €60 billion from juncker to barroso or from chirac to böge , is equivalent to 0.3% of the us financial perspective over the same period! but when we have more than 20 million unemployed and 50 million poor people, we have known since pericles that the big question is the question of large loans for large investments, for example railways. if, for example, brussels had built railway stations instead of the constitutional cockroaches, the european union would not be on a railway track today.
mr president, i am afraid that this very important debate on the financial perspective will lead to frustration because the council is proposing a minimum budget which does not meet europe's ambitions. nevertheless, i thank the rapporteur, mr böge, whose task was difficult and who was able to adapt to the requirements of the members. as regards the prospects, they remain very worrying and, in some respects, unacceptable. after the events of the last few weeks, we must be able to meet the expectations of the citizens and not create a gap between political promises and action, which must help to achieve the objectives of competitiveness, full employment, research, training and, above all, solidarity. yes, we are in favour of a cohesion policy, provided that it does not exclude support for the still disadvantaged regions of the europe of the fifteen. let me express my concern about the council. the member states must not be cold-blooded about europe. what about the proposals for the common agricultural policy, the cap which is to become the nap, the national agricultural policy, in other words the 'breakdown' for our farmers, with the announced renationalisation and the disappearance of a policy which is a symbol of europe? the same concern for regional policy, which our regions so badly need, and for our major transeuropean projects. we will also be very vigilant about the funding of natura 2000. to finance our priorities, we must review the rules for calculating europe's resources and put back on the table the advantages granted in the last century, in particular by calling into question the british cheque. mr barroso told us that we could count on the european parliament. together we may be able to convince the council that an effort must be made to ensure that europe's budget is not the minimum budget that i fear.
mr president, the union has just celebrated the 60th anniversary of a shared peace when two of the founding countries have just expressed their doubts at the ballot box. in view of the social effects of globalisation, the moral crisis linked to unemployment and inequality is added to the democratic crisis. let's not add to that the budget crisis. the final decision on the financial perspective will be crucial for the credibility and legitimacy of the union and its institutions. two political meetings are highly anticipated. the first is the success of enlargement. we have a duty to win this stage, for the sake of fairness between our countries and between our fellow citizens. the contribution recommended by our rapporteur to territorial and social cohesion is necessary, if not sufficient, since it lacks greater funding for transport networks. i also support the creation of the growth adjustment fund to help achieve this. the second is the future: our old industrial continent is in the midst of a change and we must address territorial, economic and cultural inequalities. the creation of new products and services to combine competitiveness and solidarity is only possible if research and innovation are adequately funded. the doubling of the research budget and the 3% of eu gni target for 2010 must be respected. in these two political conditions, and while we await the means of our ambitions with new own resources, i support the rapporteur's choice of reason, so that our parliament can have full authority in the next negotiations and succeed in bringing the council closer to its positions.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, one of the first expectations of the citizens of the european union is better protection of their rights. we all know that the right to speak and write, to choose one's representatives and to live as one chooses, may not be meaningful to those who, in their daily lives, lack the material means to ensure their dignity. the inclusion of the charter of fundamental rights in the constitutional treaty is a significant step forward for european citizens. it recalls that the protection of citizens' rights is at the heart of the european construction and the first article recalls the primacy of dignity. the charter thus also has a real legal significance. let's hope she is. the report by my colleague, mr claude moraes, stresses the importance of fundamental rights and, in particular, the protection of minorities in an enlarged europe. we regret that article 13, which lays down the community's task of combating all forms of discrimination, and european legislation in this field are being poorly or partially implemented by the member states. it is therefore absolutely essential to ensure better transposition and application of european legislation in this area. we also believe that an effective fight against discrimination goes hand in hand with a common and coherent european integration policy. finally, poverty and social exclusion are a form of discrimination and poverty eradication must be part of the policy to combat discrimination. we need to put in place mechanisms so that excluded and poor people have appropriate access to employment, housing and representation in political bodies.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i have listened with interest to your discussion, and let me just touch on a few points. i think it is really important that we support and push for the implementation of european legislation in individual member states. it is clear that there is still a lot to be done here, and i want to make it clear that the commission takes its role as guardian of the treaty very seriously. i would also like to highlight the year of equal opportunities, which will give us the opportunity to raise awareness on these complex and sensitive issues, and let me conclude by saying that i am convinced that the new strategy adopted by the commission provides an appropriate framework for future action on non-discrimination. here too, it is clear that a combination of all instruments, including legislative ones, is needed and that it is very necessary to focus in particular on those groups who, unfortunately, have not yet had the opportunity to participate fully in society and the economy. ladies and gentlemen, once again, i congratulate mr. moraes on his report and thank you.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs, with whom i have worked a lot in recent months to produce a comprehensive and coherent report on highly sensitive issues. my report deals with legal and illegal immigration and integration policies. from time immemorial, human beings have migrated to escape poverty, persecution, in search of happiness, in search of a better future. today, with globalisation and the proliferation of transport, migration flows have become more complex and dense. they are the result of a new aspiration of men and women around the world to go to work in other countries, to gain other experiences. they are also the result of inequalities that are sweeping the planet, the result of poverty, the curse of too many regions in the world. in the context of national elections in some member states, immigration is a recurring theme in electoral campaigns. some countries decide to close their borders and take strong measures, while others regulate thousands of undocumented immigrants. the european union appears to be divided on the issue of immigration. it is true that each member state has the right to decide how many immigrants it intends to take in. but europe no longer has internal borders. consequently, each national measure has direct and significant repercussions on the other states. it is therefore essential that the member states organise themselves together at european level. the solution to many of the problems they face must be both european and national. some political parties systematically take advantage of election periods to make harmful amalgams between insecurity, terrorism, immigration, feeding fear of immigrants and foreigners in our fellow citizens. this is unacceptable. it is essential, on the one hand, to provide objective, transparent and regular information on immigration policies and, on the other hand, to launch information campaigns among the general public in order to decriminalise the perception of immigrants. i have tried to take a responsible, balanced and comprehensive approach to this problem in my report. responsible, because we must approach these matters with a great sense of responsibility: let us not forget that these are men and women, not commodities! i also wanted to have a balanced approach: member states should not write their policies in the sense of 'all safe' or 'all liberal'. the european union must therefore overcome national divisions and dispassionate debate in order to establish a humane and effective european immigration policy. finally, i wanted to have a global approach for greater coherence and efficiency. i would like to address several aspects which i have developed in my report. first, the need for an active policy of co-development to tackle the root causes of immigration. secondly, the fight against illegal immigration through increased checks at our external borders, the dismantling of human trafficking networks, and more stringent, very stringent sanctions against companies that employ illegal workers. thirdly, legal immigration: if the union is to open its borders to legal immigrants in order to respond to the foreseeable decline in the labour force, it will have to do so in an orderly, concerted way. finally, the integration policy for migrants: admission and integration policies are inseparable. member states must put in place more voluntary policies. for their part, migrants must understand and respect the fundamental values of the host country: language learning, civic education courses and better integration into the labour market are among the important elements. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that immigration is good for the countries of origin, for the countries of destination and for the migrants themselves when it is controlled and managed. it's the principle of win-win, win-win, jointly controlled and managed immigration. welcoming everyone or making the myth of zero immigration a goal are not realistic or truly responsible positions. each state must take in immigrants according to its capacity for integration, its own interests and those of the countries of origin. immigration is too sensitive, often too dramatic, to continue to be the subject of political debate. a vision must prevail when approached: and man in all this? it is true that we must be realistic, but we must also take into account the inevitable human brotherhood and the solidarity that this implies. ladies and gentlemen, parliament must send a strong and united signal to the council and to the citizens of europe that progress on immigration and integration policies must be made quickly. i hope therefore that this report will be adopted by a large majority tomorrow.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs who have put a lot of effort into this report because we are at a turning point in immigration policy in europe. we want to send a clear signal in favour of a fair and equitable european immigration policy. a common european immigration policy is needed to ensure a dignified and organised reception of people arriving in europe. this policy must take into account the needs and rights of migrants. that is why a common immigration policy cannot be envisaged without an active integration policy. i welcome the fact that we are finally talking about creating legal pathways for immigration into europe. but i would caution that we do not wish to approach the debate in the wrong way. legal immigration must first and foremost meet the needs of all, and first and foremost of migrants. we cannot in any case limit our reflection to the labour needs of the european labour market alone. the european immigration policy must be global and not sectoral. that is why we must take account of our relations with third countries. but the discussion must be based on genuine dialogue and exchange. it would be unacceptable for us to shift our responsibility for managing migration flows to third countries. the inclusion of clauses on migration flows and readmission agreements does not necessarily have a place in all association agreements concluded by the european union. i would add, finally, that immigration policy and integration policy are inseparable. i call on the member states to allow the establishment of minimum criteria for integration into europe. these should include regular integration into the labour market, the right to training, access to education, access to social and health services and the integration of immigrants into social, cultural and political life.
mr president, how can we fail to respect these women and men who, fleeing poverty, dictatorship or war, are ready to make any sacrifice to gain entry into the european union in the legitimate hope of a better life? zero immigration and fortress europe are dangerous and reprehensible utopias. but saying it doesn't give you the right to do anything. the reception of migrants is organized and prepared. the union must play its part in this, including its financial contribution. i share the report's hostility to the establishment of detention and sorting centres for migrants inside the union or outside its borders. i experienced this sadly with the infamous sangatte camp. these centres are not solving anything, quite the contrary. they fuel all kinds of tensions. i agree with the report when it proposes as a main objective a firm and merciless attack on the mafia networks. the same ruthless repression must be applied to employers who exploit migrants without due regard for the law. i regret, however, that the report presents the union's migration policy as a variable for adjusting the labour market and as a means of influencing the remuneration of labour. a good migration policy implies a genuine desire to help the sustainable development of emerging countries and not to regard them cynically as a democratic reservoir of cheap labour for the needs of the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, illegal immigration is not just about people. it also concerns capital and cash, which is a matter of concern for european democracy because there is a link between this money that is coming in or going out illegally and a number of trafficking activities: trafficking in human beings, which was widely discussed in the previous debate, organ trafficking, drug trafficking, and also, of course, terrorism, commissioner, not to mention all transnational crime, which is a matter of concern for the european union and for the international community. in this context, the council's common position and parliament's recommendation for this second reading are essentially constructive. it's been three years since the discussion started. parliament had already had the opportunity to express its views during the previous parliamentary term and i believe, as you do, that the new proposal adopted by the council's qualified majority has simplified and enriched the text. that is why the members of parliament have supported it and our strongest wish is, of course, that this text should now be adopted as quickly as possible. this is a subject where, in the main, the major and widely shared concern must be the effective application of the text beyond the text itself. i believe that the text as it stands today should provide the legal instrument needed, in particular, by customs officers in charge of these control tasks. i also believe that with the elements and amendments introduced by parliament we now have guarantees concerning respect for the rights of individuals and the protection of personal data. that's why i'm not so worried. in conclusion, i thank the commission and the council for the constructive spirit they have shown in our various meetings and, together with the rapporteurs from the other groups with whom i have worked, i hope - and i am optimistic - that tomorrow parliament will adopt this recommendation unanimously.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that everyone is anxious to speak a few truths today, and that is the case. firstly, when the liberal group today learns that ratification should have been done on the same day, i would remind you that when we proposed a european referendum throughout europe, even this parliament did not follow us. (applause) i would like to thank and today everyone would like to see a european referendum held on the same day because, perhaps, it would have been defeated, but we would not have had the ridiculous problem of asking whether or not to proceed with ratification: everyone would have decided on the same day. that is what i am saying, and we can only blame ourselves: why has this parliament not called for the european referendum, as we had proposed? the second truth is that i think, and i must say this frankly, that the governments and this parliament have not yet understood what the financial perspective is all about. they have not yet understood that if we want a europe that can act in the field of work and social protection, we must give it the means to do so. but even the compromise proposed by mr schröder, even the compromise proposed by others, is not a compromise that will enable us to do that. we are lying to our citizens once again. let us be clear: either we have a budget for europe to function or we cannot make any promises for europe. let's just say it once. (applause) truth number three: let's be clear about this. mr. poettering, what happened in france is not a disappointment, it's a defeat, but today's defeats will be our victories tomorrow, i promise you that. for this, we, the council, the commission and parliament, must be able to set up and organise a convention with the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and civil society, to reflect on and to question the economic and social policies of europe: what have we achieved? what have we not achieved? let's open up! mr president-in-office of the council, open the council's black box, debate on 16 and 17 in public, so that the citizens of europe know what you are going to say to each other! (applause) i would like to thank the european people are tired of these press conferences following the council meetings, in which each country, each government representative, tells only half the truth, taking care to conceal the other half, the half he has said behind closed doors. we, as european citizens, parliamentarians, have the right, like all citizens, to know what your problems are in the council, how you are responding to us. not just what schröder is going to say to blair in public, but how the members of the council respond to each other when there are other positions, how they react to the position of mr juncker, who wants to continue, of mr blair, who wants to stop, of the poles, who do not know, of the danes, who do not know: we want all this to be made public. lack of transparency is one reason for the failure. mr barroso, this crisis is in a way an opportunity: we must seize it by speaking the truth publicly. for example, with globalisation, china, all of this, well let's say once and for all that, yes, the wto is important, but the wto can only function if it adopts the criteria of the international labour office. the problem is not to build barriers against china, but to impose democratization in china so that chinese workers can fight for their wages. (applause) i would like to thank if china doesn't accept it, then we have to kick china out of the wto! it is simple, and it is the same for other countries. we're tired of it: business, always business, but when it comes to democracy, we say we're going to pee. it can't work like this anymore. that is what the citizens of europe want to know! that's why i say to everyone: we lost, yes, we lost in france, but, because i campaigned, i don't want to lose anymore and i don't want to lie about very clear things. i would like to end by recalling one of the lies: we need a european budget to enable economic initiatives to be taken, we need to develop scientific research, but to do that we must at least say that europe is more interesting than the petty proposals of governments as they are presented today. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, should the process of ratification of the constitutional treaty be continued, suspended or stopped? suspend until better days come? i applaud your political courage, democratic rigor and faith in the constitution. in my view, no one should deny a people who wish to express their opinion on this text the right to do so. at the same time, we owe each and every one of them a word of truth: it will now be a matter of consultation and not of ratification, because the draft constitution is irrevocably obsolete. it is legally binding, because it requires unanimous agreement to enter into force, and it is politically binding, given the power of the two 'no's' and their impact in the many other countries of the union. so what do you do? what has just happened is not a french or dutch thunderclap in a serene european sky. yes, mr schulz, the crisis of confidence between the citizens and the european institutions has been widening and deepening ever since the great liberalization of the single market and the maastricht treaty. over the years, it is not only the lower classes, but the middle classes themselves who experience this shift as a shift towards a model of society that they reject. the competition for everything, the rampant precariousness, the cynical and ruthless balance of power, the consensus reached at the top, behind closed doors, this is no longer acceptable! there's a surge of dignity in this non-massive. many of these people would still like to dream of europe, but we do not dream of the stability pact or the bolkestein directive. the crisis in europe today is indeed an existential crisis. we have had other difficulties before, mr barroso said. no, this time it's about something else. until now, the political storms triggered by the reforms, which have proved costly to the liberals in the council and the commission, have stopped at the borders of the member states. on the left, what a massacre since the not so distant past when it headed more than two thirds of the governments of the union. where the right wing held the reins a short while ago, the sanction has been equally devastating, has it not, mr barroso? what did the european leaders, the council and the commission, do after each of these popular disapproval? they congratulated the winners and continued the same policy: business as usual! this time - and this is the radical novelty of the situation - it is the heart of the system that the citizens have started to target. now, sooner or later, you're gonna have to answer for it and accept real change. so how do we get out of this impasse? first, by showing that the depth of european unease has been measured by clearly declaring the constitutional treaty to be obsolete. secondly, by announcing in the same spirit the withdrawal of the most controversial texts, because they are the most emblematic of a drift that must be stopped: the bolkestein directive, the working time directive, as well as the series of directives under discussion liberalizing all aspects, without the slightest assessment of the effects of previous measures of the same nature. finally, by opening a large free citizens' debate, not a convention but a free citizens' debate free of any pressure at the level of the whole union to establish a state of affairs of the present europe and determine what needs to change to design a europe in which the majority of europeans can again recognize themselves and invest themselves. i would like to conclude, mr president, by addressing myself to the forces of the left, who, whatever their position on the constitution, share the conviction that we must now embark on this path to rebuild europe. let us meet and do what we can to restore confidence and hope. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, what happened in france and the netherlands a few days ago can be summed up in two words: the great detachment of the people from what mr barroso has called 'brussels'. that is to say, the people of europe no longer trust brussels. the second thing, the second finding, is that the constitution is dead. she died in paris, she was buried in holland. i call on all european leaders - while i agree with what mr cohn-bendit has just said: 'i don't want to lie anymore' - to get rid of europe's contempt and to become not the spokesmen of the european machine against their peoples, but simply and democratically the spokesmen of their peoples with their peers. what do the peoples want? to remain free people. so, in practical terms, this means: to decide to suspend the negotiations on turkey's accession immediately; the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european community. that's the formula for the future. finally, and i will conclude with this, we must put in place new mechanisms to return to the common european preference, at least in sensitive industrial sectors such as textiles. ladies and gentlemen, this is the only possible formula to save europe and to bring the peoples back together.
mr president, the service is over. the european constitution is stillborn: one negative vote is enough. there were two, three days apart, in two of the six founding countries of europe, france and holland. tomorrow it will be britain, whose currency is not the euro, which will preside over the council and which has already announced that it sees no need for the ratification process. the gap between parliaments and the people has never been so wide. in the french parliament, 8% voted "no", in the people 55%! it is therefore surprising that the popular referendum is not, because it is the most democratic, the only way of ratification in all the countries of the union, especially for those who complain in this chamber of the democratic deficit of the institutions. it is dangerous for rulers who rule for their own benefit to speak to peoples who are suffering their own harm. against the political, media, economic, social and other oligarchies, which had a hundred times more powerful means in the debate, the peoples spoke and refused to renounce their independence in a supranational state, which was, moreover, both ultra-liberal and bureaucratic, economically mediocre and socially disastrous. they said no to indefinite enlargement, or extra-european enlargement to turkey. some may be tempted to bypass the french and dutch "no's" and beware of provoking the legitimate anger of the citizens. it would be wiser to take account of the will of the people and to try to give the desirable european cooperation a more realistic framework. it is clear that the peoples do not want to exchange the national framework, the foundation of their identity, the defender of their supreme interests, the guarantor of their freedom, their culture and their language. they want to preserve their sovereignty, their territory and their borders, and to shape their own destiny and that of their children, who are now threatened by globalism, immigration, social ruin and moral decay.
mr president, this is the second time that france has rejected a political union treaty: in 1954 because it was afraid of german rearmament; in 2005 probably because it was afraid of world capitalism. let us also see it as a sign for our own policies. what can i do? i think there are three principles that should guide us. the first principle is equality between peoples. parliamentary ratification is equivalent to referendum ratification. i have added up the results of the three referendums: the 'yes' vote wins, because, spanish, dutch and french combined, the 'yes' vote wins by 54.04%, a figure of consolation for me, a frenchman. equality between large and small countries, equality of all peoples. i only half like the word 'founders' today in 2005, because you, mr barroso, you, mr borell, could not have been among the founders in 1957 because your countries were not: you were living under a dictatorship. others lived under totalitarian regimes. we were lucky, we french and we dutch, to be free. so today, this notion has to be handled with a little caution. if a constitution has to be adopted unanimously, then it must also be adopted unanimously: this principle applies in both cases. the second principle is that we must respect our word when it comes to enlargement. i am thinking in particular of romania, bulgaria and others, but i will add the balkans. let us give and maintain the prospect of the balkan countries joining the european union. their clogging of this horizon is like keeping a powder keg there. third principle: europe still needs a constitution, despite the two negative votes. there is a department in france that shows us the way. it is philippe de villiers's, because the department he heads, the vendée, said 'no' to maastricht in 1992, but said 'yes' to the constitution. mr. de villiers is totally cut off from the vendéens, which he presides over. (applause) a technocrat, you know, doesn't have to go to brussels to find them. a technocrat, anyway, is a technician that you don't like, that's all. this department shows us the way: so let us trust the vendéens of villiers. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we are living in difficult times and i want to express here the immense sadness that i feel and that all those in the european union and the world who are committed to the project of a political europe feel. europe is in crisis. our europe is in crisis, the europe we wanted and built. of course, as we all know, domestic policy matters weighed heavily on the french and dutch results. but we must have the courage to recognize that this is also a certain way of doing europe that has been sanctioned. for years our fellow citizens have felt that europe was being built without them, that they had no say in the often important decisions taken on their behalf. europe has seemed distant and foreign to them: we are collectively responsible for it. our fellow citizens also felt that europe was an uncontrolled project, with no clear identity and no clear boundaries. and this feeling of unknownness caused in them reactions of rejection and fear. finally, europe has not played its role of protecting and has not provided an answer to the question of globalisation, and the difficult economic context is further undermining the commitment of our citizens to the european idea. today, the european project is not sufficiently visible or understandable. we are in the midst of a profound crisis of confidence and the european institutions must be able to respond to it. their response cannot, must not be only legal. it must first be political and, whatever happens in the ratification process, it is essential that the next european council sets out the prospects and responds to the expectations of our citizens. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union. now is the time to act. it's an emergency. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, europe has not been able to win the obstacle course. the constitution has not been able to break through all the barriers. the european constitution was the favourite and lost the race. but did she lose it because of the poor quality of her writing? has it lost it solely on european considerations? i don't think he did. i think rather that the ground was not prepared, that the constitution had to face opponents doped with lies. we must all react: parliament, the commission, the council. what did the voters tell us? "europe, sorry, we do not know well. but the situation in our own country is deteriorating, so we're using our power to say so", and they voted in an epidermal manner. the results are there and we must draw the conclusions. for too long, some of our governments have turned their backs on the emergence of a true european culture. i am thinking of france, of course. how many generations of ministers of all stripes have been struck with amnesia, from brussels to their capital? between the time they sit in the council of ministers in brussels and speak on behalf of their country and the time they explain a measure, they all seem to suffer from acute memory lapses. in brussels they approve a european measure which, if popular, is immediately taken over as a government initiative. on the other hand, if it is an action which is necessary but unpopular, the responsibility is placed on this europe. and that attitude has led us to the worst. for too many years, we haven't talked about europe. the enlargement was not explained well. we have gone too fast, faced with an opinion that has not been prepared and that thinks it will suffer rather than participate. to make europe love you is to give yourself the means to make it understood. one of the great mistakes in relation to this constitutional treaty was that we did not hold a popular or parliamentary consultation on the same day in all the member states. but let us remember that ten countries voted yes, and it is by integrating the european debate into all national policy issues that we can deflect the populist storm which is currently battering our countries.
mr president, the situation we are in is called a crisis. it would be futile and dangerous to deny it. but being lucid doesn't mean you have to be a hand gesture. let's not throw the handle after the axe! the constitution is a matter for each country to decide according to its own constitutional rules. in the meantime we must reflect on the consequences of an obvious lack of unanimous ratification, so as to reach as soon as possible a new consensus on political europe, which we must not renounce. however, what europeans have expressed by their votes or by their attitudes, and which needs to be analysed further, calls first for changes in european policies and the way in which they are conducted. europe must emerge from the schizophrenia in which it operates every day. the decisions are supranational, the debates are exclusively national. the debate in each country must now be about the common challenges and the interests of europe itself, as was the case in the french referendum campaign. in the meantime, mr president, the european council must stabilize the system as it is and show that it has heard the message five times out of five. first of all, i think it means persuading the central bank to lower its key interest rate, because growth is at that price. adopt a political agreement on the financial perspective; to reject certain draft legislation which does not meet a real need; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, we can overcome the crisis and move forward if we are democrats. let us do the european policy that the people ask us to do!
if the members of the european right coordination did not vote on the motion of censure, it was not because of political sympathy for the commission, but because the motion was poorly presented and poorly founded. we would have been perfectly willing to censure mr barroso for his political actions, and in particular for the commission's persistence in ignoring the very clear vote recently expressed by both the french and the dutch people. but when you question someone's honour, you have to be sure of the facts and you have to be able to go all the way. the implicit withdrawal of mr bonde's motion of censure just before it was voted on shows that it was not. we were therefore concerned that such haste would undermine the motion of censure, which should be reserved for the serious cases for which my group intends to use it in the future.
in writing. mr böge's report represents the parliament's negotiating mandate in the context of the next financial perspective 2007-13. i voted against this report for the following reasons: 1. the the process of ratifying the constitutional treaty has shown that some people have doubts about the effectiveness of european socioeconomic policies. i am convinced that the european union must have an ambitious budget, giving the community institutions the means to fulfil this mission. the bögge report, which sets payment appropriations at 1.07% of gnp, fails to meet this challenge. 2. the the logic of budgetary restraint threatens the european commitments to farmers. it also threatens the viability of the sucre cmo, whose reform cannot be financed. i do not accept that the agricultural world should become the victim of national egoisms, as expressed in the bögge report. 3. the the introduction of cofinancing, which opens the way to the renationalisation of the cap, is unacceptable in my view. it marks the abandonment of the only truly european public policy at a time in our history when europe must strengthen itself by pooling its strengths. succumbing to national weaknesses would continue to widen the gap between the peoples and europe.
in writing. natura 2000 does not find a budget! the big missing piece in the financial perspective is once again nature. during the many debates, each mep conceded that natura 2000 was an integral part of eu policies, that the first experiences with site management had produced positive results, and even better, that they had helped to lay the foundations for sustainable development in areas of high biological value. the environment, previously constrained, proved to be an asset for new development based on the consideration of the value of the national natural heritage. although the report mentions the 21 billion needed for natura 2000 management for the years 2007-2013, no budget line has included this figure in the planned expenditure. an amendment adopted in plenary has even succeeded in removing natura 2000 from the funds for fisheries! this means that no policy is ready to contribute to the establishment of natura 2000. does this mean that natura 2000 will be drowned out in the wake of the financial perspectives? the last hope for nature now lies in the life+ fund. the european parliament will have to make up for this by including a section on natura 2000 in this financial instrument for the environment.
in writing. i abstain on this report for the following reasons: - i am in favour of a stronger and more political europe. in its opinion the european parliament can hardly ask for a general budget amount that is below the commission proposal . it is difficult to want more europe without a sufficient budget. i therefore think it necessary to give the heads of state and government who will be taking the final decision on the level of the budgetary perspective some signals. these must really give europe the means to achieve its ambitions. -co-financing of the first pillar of the cap is to be rejected. it introduces destructive germs into one of the founding policies of the european union and is leading the east towards a renationalization of the european union. it does not solve the problem of insufficient european funds, but it does transfer the burden of part of the expenditure to the states and/or their local and regional authorities without ensuring that they have the means to do so. finally, it is a false solution for those who refuse to take decisions in favour of a better distribution of public support for agriculture and a more thorough revision of the cap in the direction of a more sustainable agriculture.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, we are in a rather surprising situation, because we are discussing this afternoon a draft which has no substance in a chamber which has no legitimacy to do so. i would like to pass on to the vacuum of the project, the reform of the un: when i had the honour of beginning to serve my country in the framework of the un - that was in 1992 - there was already talk of reform of the un. it's a sea snake! the only reality is that the un is based on a security council, which is based on five permanent members, who have, by the way, led the un as far as it could go, often for the better and sometimes for the worse. europe is represented by rotating nonpermanent members and by two major powers with veto power, britain and france. and there's no other architecture that we can see. but there's something much more serious. this parliament has no power to deliberate on this subject or even to send - as mr laschet has rather derisively put it - messages to new york. it doesn't mean anything. moreover, our french sovereignty delegation will not take part in the vote tomorrow in protest against the will of this parliament to pretend that it can invade what concerns the states alone and, even worse, to pretend that there was no referendum, that is to say, that the constitution is not dead. i would like to warn you solemnly against a collective mistake: we act as if there could ever be a constitution, as if there could be a common foreign and security policy, as if there could be a european minister for foreign affairs. there never will be! the people don't want it. and if you want to impose them by force, well, you are basing the future of european construction on a coup d'état, which will make all our decisions illegal and which will call for appropriate, perhaps violent, responses from our peoples.
mr president, as a french citizen i must begin by denouncing the remarks which i have just heard from one of my fellow citizens. the death of a draft constitution is not the end of all the treaties that bind us! europe has done enough to have the right to send collective messages. good work, laschet, on your report. if there is any wrongdoing - the word has been used - it is to use a member of the european parliament's salary to come and spit in the soup and deny all the efforts we have made over the last 60 years. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, mr minister, commissioner, i like this laschet report. i am glad that in these dark days of europe we are experiencing this rare moment of convergence between the council, the commission and our parliament. i am pleased to welcome the excellent report of a colleague who, a little more than usual, listened to his colleagues and i am ashamed: we are twenty-five in the chamber, which does not describe our work well. mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to address a message to the presidency. we can seek to reform the united nations, but it would be better to start by reforming ourselves! i can testify that our colleagues, our 700 and a few absent colleagues, are not taking a nap; they are working in their offices. our work is poorly organized. we need one or two major debates in plenary every month in this house and, for the rest, work in committee. these debates must have honor. in two minutes, you can't analyze or reason. i would therefore say to you, mr president-in-office of the council - and i beg your pardon for representing a parliament for which i am a little ashamed - that my main concern is that, in defending this good report and the good work we are doing together in europe, you do not miss the target. there are too many charges, there are too many targets. it is true that europe has reasons for wanting a seat on the security council. it is true that the time is not ripe and that it is hardly possible today. i would advise you not to dwell too much on this and to concentrate on what is reasonably possible, on what is useful and on the aspects in which our work, and in particular the laschet report, is inventive. i will quote article 2 and chapter vii, which relate to the transfer of the right to use the charter to regional organisations. what a novelty! i would also mention the transformation of the trusteeship council into the council of faint states. i would also mention the introduction of a reference to global public goods in article 17. i have now exceeded my speaking time, and i will stop here. this is all ridiculous, we're all saying the same things. don't miss your target! play the innovative elements, and only them, and we'll have done a good job. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i shall concentrate my brief speech on a very important issue, namely the reform of the united nations human rights programme. i am very pleased that the main lines of reform of the un instruments for the evaluation of human rights are emerging - not only in this house but also in the commission and the council - and that they correspond, moreover, to the work in progress, that is to say the package proposed by the un secretary-general and also the action plan which has just been presented to kofi annan by the high commissioner, mrs louise arbour. these are very interesting lines of action, which are also taken up in mr laschet's report, which i think is very good. the transformation into a permanent council is obviously a revolution in the un human rights system. why would you do that? because we will have a permanent organ of pressure on countries that violate human rights and we have just said that these violations were a permanent threat to security, to development and to peace. this reform is very important. as for the strengthening of the high commission's resources, i think everyone agrees on this. i think that we must also take care of the content of the work, the way in which this council works: in this context, the reference made in the european parliament's report to peer evaluation - that is to say, evaluation by other countries - which is a transparent, fair, equitable system of evaluation in all countries, in order to avoid criticism of the double standard, this reference, i would say, seems to me to be quite fundamental.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr kofi annan said that attacks on the environment, water shortages and the consequences of climate change are now killing more people than terrorist attacks. the un's proposals for environmental reform, although mentioned, are not yet up to the challenges facing the planet. yet it is indeed the responsibility of the united nations to organize the means to deal with the predicted disasters, which will result in millions of ecological refugees. who will welcome the inhabitants of the nations without borders, for they are swallowed up by the depths of the seas? who will defend nature in the wto trade arbitration, which has already shown how little it cares about the damage it causes to the environment? because the environment is not a commodity, because environmental standards must take precedence over trade, because the legal relationship must be clarified in the settlement of disputes between the wto and multilateral environmental agreements within the united nations system itself, the united nations environment programme must be transformed into a global environmental organization, in order to defend our common good, the planet that welcomes us. with international institutional recognition, no one can escape responsibility for the planet and future generations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our resolution refers to the millennium development goals set by the united nations. the joint responsibility of the united states and the european union is to implement this indispensable programme for reducing poverty in the world. the united states of america and the european union are co-leaders of the bretton woods institutions. this co-responsibility is reflected in particular in this tradition, this tacit agreement, which reserves the management of the international monetary fund to the europeans and that of the world bank to the americans. the imf, it should be remembered, was created to preserve the stability of the international monetary system. today, his role is very different. all developing countries depend on the imf for their financing and their benevolence in order to obtain the loans necessary for their sustainable development. we cannot turn a blind eye to the results of this policy. in addition to the fact that the imf has partially failed in its mission of monitoring global economic stability by failing to anticipate, and even triggering, several regional and international financial crises, we must assess with the united states the negative impact of the washington consensus-inspired counterparts that the imf requires from countries that seek its assistance. finally, as part of the overall reform of the multilateral system, the reintegration of the bretton woods institutions into the united nations system must be on the agenda of the transatlantic discussions.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the parliament's draft resolution, which echoes the council's position of 23 and 24 may. i will not go back to the account of recent events in uzbekistan, but i would like to reiterate the need for a rapid and determined reaction by the european parliament to this dramatic situation for the local populations, particularly for the refugee populations. in the face of the tragic events in andijan, i would first of all stress the urgent need to set up an international commission of inquiry as soon as possible to clarify the facts and hold the karimov government to account. the union must therefore act alongside ngos and the unhcr to ensure that refugees are treated fairly at the kyrgyz border. the european parliament must also push uzbekistan to implement fundamental reforms to put the country back on the path to real democracy and economic development for the benefit of all its citizens. the increase in arbitrary imprisonment and the use of torture and executions must be definitively abandoned. respect for freedom of expression, freedom of the press and also for ngos are also prerequisites for the successful operation of our partnership and cooperation agreements. i would like to emphasize that the ferment of the protests and the confusion of the uzbek people is rooted in a degraded economic and social situation, in poverty and powerlessness in the face of corruption. should we use the carrot and stick policy? if the tacis programme with scrupulous monitoring of the allocation of funds is to be maintained, we can remind the karimov government that partnership and cooperation agreements are subject to strict compliance with clauses concerning democracy and respect for human rights.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one point on which i agree with the rapporteur, mr karas, it is that the proposed reform of the stability pact is still a long way from providing europe with the economic governance capacity to satisfy all its citizens for this and future generations. we are still a long way from the situation that has developed in a federation much more integrated than ours, the united states, where there is a large federal budget, where there are rules for coordination between the budgets of the federal states, where fiscal and monetary policy are closely coordinated at the level of congress, where congress has the possibility of influencing the choice of the president of the federal reserve bank, where the objectives of this federal reserve bank are broader than simple price stability. that said, i consider that the proposals of commissioner almunia, from the previous mandate until their adoption in a further improved version by the council, are an extremely positive step, and our group will oppose the demands - particularly from the epp - to go backwards, to a more stupid pact, in the words of the former president of the commission. we believe we have taken a significant step towards an intelligent pact. if we can add a few more points, just to clarify, we suggest in one of our amendments that education expenditure should be included among the relevant factors that could justify an increase in the deficit, along with research expenditure, and that expenditure on the stability of the ecological balance of the planet should be explicitly mentioned among the objectives of the union. we are thinking of the costs of implementing the kyoto agreement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if i look objectively at what happened in france on 29 may, there are many reasons for this, including enlargement. i personally see in the difficulty we have in taking advantage of all the space, all the added value that economic and monetary union should have brought us, a real source of concern and a real explanation for what may have happened in my country. today we are discussing the reform of the stability pact and i would like to express my agreement with my colleague, mrs piia-noora kauppi, on one point. this reform is not the one that will give us all the answers we need to finally find the right solution in the euro area, which should serve as the engine of growth for the whole of europe of the twenty-five. but let us accept that what you have done, commissioner, in agreement with the president of the eurogroup, is a step in the right direction. and i hope that you will be able to accept some of the european parliament's amendments in good faith so that we can conclude this negotiation under the luxembourg presidency. it seems to me that, with regard to the reform of statistics, predictability and agreement on the macroeconomic data which should govern the preparation of member states' budgets, there are elements which should allow us to move in the right direction. but, of course, this is only one step in a series. i would, however, like to disagree with my colleague, mrs piia-noora kauppi, on one point. it is also a recurring theme in our debates in the committee on economic and monetary affairs that structural reform alone will not be enough to restore household confidence, to stimulate domestic demand, to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. we need more coordination and i deeply regret the kind of intellectual breakdown we have experienced since the transition to emu. we must develop more means, find others beyond the stability pact, which is still not sufficiently 'growth-oriented'. i wish you, commissioner, good luck with this first step.
mr president, since we are talking about steering the european economy, i cannot resist sharing with you the following observation: in a few days' time, the combined action of the french and dutch citizens will have been more effective in improving the competitiveness of european products for export, by bringing the euro closer to the dollar, than the action of the european central bank. so let me praise the efficiency of european citizens rather than the certainty of central bankers. the decision of the march council - which you, commissioner almunia, have largely inspired - to reform the stability pact is a step in the right direction. is it sufficient to give confidence in the european union's ability to devise a strategy for a lasting economic recovery? no, i'm not going. it is impossible to dissociate the debate on the future of the stability pact and, therefore, on the coordination of economic and budgetary policies from the debate on the financial perspective. how can you reduce the deficits of the member states if, in return, the union does not have the budgetary means to guarantee social cohesion and to revive the european economy? i do not personally believe that fiscal austerity in the member states, combined with the budgetary inertia of the union, can meet the dual challenge of growth and employment. so let me say that at this stage it is now time to talk about increasing and diversifying the resources of the union, even if it means amending the treaties, to enable the union to borrow and to raise the european tax which the economic and political crisis we are experiencing requires.
the rapporteur. mr president, the report i am presenting to you tonight confirms the return of an ambition, that of an industrial policy for an enlarged europe. it was necessary and indispensable. however, more is needed. we have little time in industrial policy and we must move faster and move from ambition to action. i was in shanghai last week, travelling with the delegation from the city of marseille: industry is the backbone of china's development. innovation and new technologies are driving the development of this industry and economic growth is constant. in fact, the dynamism of this society is almost dizzying. i do not, of course, want a chinese model of development for the european union. i would like our europe to be able to compete with the economic giants of the united states, china, india and others. our challenge must therefore be above all competitiveness, through innovation, investment in research, know-how and knowledge. the commission and vice-president verheugen have made a number of proposals to this effect. what we are now waiting for is for these proposals to become a political reality and it is in this perspective that we must look at this report and its contents. we believe that a policy must first set itself objectives which give it meaning, such as the development of a strong european industrial base, the increase in employment, especially among young people, the emergence of european industrial champions capable of conveying our brand of 'made in europe'. but european industrial policy must also be addressed to all businesses and become a fully-fledged component of the lisbon strategy. the commission insists on a sectoral approach: this is a source of satisfaction for us because it is essential that part of industrial policy be implemented taking into account the specificities of each sector. however, effective policy must also take account of the nature of enterprises, as only 1% of european enterprises are large groups, whereas there are millions of other small and medium-sized enterprises that make up the european industrial fabric. the commission must make a real effort to take account of small businesses. the second dimension, which should not be overlooked, is territorial. industry has a strong pull on other economic activities, which makes its location a development issue for many regions. the structural funds must thus support industrial development and serve as an instrument to assist the conversion of areas facing industrial relocations. we must respond specifically to this problem of relocations, assess the sectors affected, anticipate relocations and support the conversion of the affected regions. the differences between the 25 countries of the european union must also be taken into account. finally, we believe that any policy must be based on a clear and effective method, and this is particularly true, mr vice-president, of your commitment to better legislation. we expect a method of simplifying legislation which takes account of the cumulative effect of legislation on each sector. we hope that the method of conducting impact studies of legislative proposals will take account of smes and, above all, will make it possible to evaluate, on the basis of specific criteria, the responses to the commission's consultations. i would add that parliament and the council are not exempt from making efforts in this area and that they should play an active part in the objective of better legislation. as you have no doubt noticed, mr vice-president, our expectations are high. they depend partly on the outcome of the negotiations on the financial perspectives for many industrial policy instruments, but also on our ability to use the instruments we already have, such as competition policy, education, the allocation of state aid and trade policy. i hope that the contribution of our parliament will help to meet this challenge.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs carmen fraga estévez, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean and amending regulations (ec) no 2847/93 and (ec) no 973/2001 (com (2003) 0589 - c5-0480/2003 - 2003/0229 (cns)) (a6-0112/2005).
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am also glad that we can adopt this compromise. i would like to congratulate mrs fraga, who has done a difficult and delicate but urgent job of regulating and enabling sustainable fishing in the mediterranean, a sea which is itself threatened by extremely problematic developments: various forms of pollution, diminishing resources, threats to biodiversity. i welcome this compromise in several respects. firstly, it defines in a particularly clear way the fishing gear which is permitted or prohibited; it specifies, for example, driftnets, mesh sizes, minimum fish sizes, deep trawling, etc. it also ensures the consistency of european policy with regard to other seas which concern us, whether in the atlantic or the north sea. it was essential to have management tools and policies for managing fisheries resources in the mediterranean. it is also a fair compromise, which allows the majority of the countries concerned to strike a good balance between what each side has had to accept or refuse in order to reach this compromise. however, a number of questions remain to be resolved, which were raised by previous speakers. the first is the management of the whole mediterranean basin, since we are only talking about the member states of the european union in this compromise. we must strengthen the work of regional organisations and, within the framework of the european union's neighbourhood policy, determine how we can reach agreements with the other countries bordering the mediterranean basin. another problem is the endangered bluefin tuna, and fishing practices such as the use of gillnets for aquaculture, which are increasingly problematic. this compromise, this regulation, does not directly concern this type of fishing, but it is understandable that the small-scale fishermen who are concerned by this regulation feel that it is unfair not to regulate further a type of fishing that is developing and poses enormous problems for the preservation of ecosystems, given the way it is practiced. finally, i would like to take up what has been said by my colleagues about the urgency and the need for the european union to pursue a much more active research policy in the mediterranean. however, we lack a lot of elements, a lot of data that would allow us to refine these policies and tools. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. that's the whole point of this debate.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the concern to preserve fisheries resources in the mediterranean is entirely legitimate. it is necessary to preserve for future generations a rich and diverse environment and vital food resources. sustainable management of the marine ecosystem is an imperative. but among all the living creatures that inhabit this planet, there is one that has duties, i mean human beings, but also has rights. the regulation before us is a compromise, and i certainly understand the intention of this compromise: it is a compromise between the various sovereign nations which make up europe, but also between the use and preservation of the environment. however, amendment no 10 by our rapporteur directly concerns a traditional mediterranean fishing activity in france, the tuna fishery. the latter is an ancient technique of fishing for bluefin tuna, using a surface anchored net, which is specific to the french mediterranean. i would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that by approving this amendment you will be putting an end to the death sentence of 1200 direct and indirect jobs linked to this activity. on the field, it's misunderstanding, and legitimate anger is roaring. for years, fishermen in this sector have made considerable efforts to limit the impact of their activity on the ecosystem, in particular with regard to the protection of cetaceans. their accidental catches are now only residual. scientific studies have shown that this fishery is environmentally friendly. i know that this compromise was difficult to reach, but i appeal to the commission, the council and above all the french government. what are a few more days of negotiation compared to the plight of 300 families and an entire region? what will be the weight of the argument of the package and that of pandora's box, which should not be opened in a french public opinion which understands more and more that brussels is far from the reality in which it lives? let us not forget that 80% of the fisheries in the mediterranean are artisanal, so why should we always favour the remaining 20%? madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, please reopen the negotiations to save these jobs! commissioner borg has just told us that he refuses to accept our amendment no 34, on the grounds that the second paragraph of article 7 on which our amendment is based is based on a classification which does not correspond to the text. i think this is a legal argument which concerns the details of what the commissioner and his services have to deal with, but it does not take into account the substance of the amendment, namely the protection of the rights of fishermen which he has to ensure that they are respected. to do this, i ask you to vote against amendment no 10 by our rapporteur, whom i congratulate nonetheless on her hard work, and i ask you to vote for our amendment no 34. on behalf of the fishermen you're going to save, i thank you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon.
no, mr matsakis, i am not giving you the floor for that. i am here to enforce the speaking times which are very strictly set. you know very well how things are. i have experience of what happens on thursdays at 1 p.m. when someone comes to the presidency to say that someone's speaking time has not been respected. there are times for speaking for a reason. we are here in the european parliament and speaking time is not unlimited.
the agenda calls for the report by mr duarte freitas, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion by the european community of the agreement on an international dolphin conservation programme (com (2004) 0764 - c6-0245/2004 - 2004/0268 (cns)) (a6-0157/2005).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the signing of the joint memoranda on social inclusion by all the new member states and the commission marks a clear political commitment to put the fight against poverty and social exclusion at the heart of every national policy. parliament agrees with and supports this approach. our committee on civil liberties calls in particular on the commission to define a common policy which is a common thread, a policy which is legible and shared by all the member states. to do this, the european commission must: examine the appropriateness of the choice of the open method of coordination, which clearly cannot fully satisfy the objective assigned; to make available to this policy the appropriate financial means to bring the citizens and residents of the new member states closer to the european project; to carry out a cross-sectional synthesis analysis, focusing on violations of civil liberties, access to fundamental rights, the fight against all discrimination and facilitating the work for possible prosecutions; to highlight more clearly the difficulties in accessing rights and justice through a more detailed analysis of migration flows, distinguishing the situation resulting from the immigration of third-country nationals from that of other ethnic or cultural minorities; to reflect on the distribution of competences between the union, the member states and the regions, and to provide for some formalisation of the 'best practice' method; implement access to justice for vulnerable and minority populations; improve the unification, efficiency and simplification of emergency procedures; to address the remaining problems of stateless persons and other vulnerable persons who continue to be denied citizenship or residence. it is at the expense of these efforts to protect fundamental rights that the european union can move towards greater justice and the sharing of the values of citizenship which are the foundation of the social europe we all want.
in writing. european industry is currently facing major difficulties. it is subject to a formidable scissor effect between, on the one hand, the unilateral opening up of european markets to fierce global competition and, on the other, the eu's dogmatic policies: competition policy which prevents the emergence of european champions or the support of new activities which the market alone could not bring about, regulations in all areas which multiply constraints and costs... what happens to industrial competitiveness when we look at the 1200 pages of the reach directive on the chemical industry, a veritable regulatory monster that nobody understands anything about, except that it is likely, as it stands, to increase the number of company closures and relocations, and to end european research in this sector. not all of mr vlasto's proposals are bad. but the major flaw in his report is that it treats ultra-liberal globalization as an inevitable and fundamentally beneficial fact. and to see solutions, as usual, only in more europe. by continuing to go astray in this direction, the european union has so far only succeeded in creating unemployment, poverty, disappointment and rejection.
in writing. this report was the occasion for good collaboration between the three european institutions and industry with convergence on environmental requirements. the agreement was reached on a fundamental point, the abandonment of harmful pahs and the implementation of safer substitute products. the european parliament has agreed to give industry an extra year to achieve this objective and allows the disposal of existing stocks, which are ultimately low. we have here a case where environmental ambition, backed up by research, makes it possible to consolidate this industrial sector and hence employment and improve the quality of products. a conclusion can therefore be drawn from the first reading.
in writing. the reform of the stability pact proposed today is only marginal, but it is nonetheless important. the unfortunate thing is that it took eight years to realise that the deficits were not only estimated on the basis of the fateful and completely arbitrary figure of 3% of gdp, but also on the basis of 'relevant factors': persistently low growth, ageing populations, the consequences of sloppy eu enlargement or rampant globalisation... it's about time. but that's not enough. the europe of brussels has just spent the last ten years sacrificing millions of jobs in order to meet dogmatically stated targets (3% of gdp for the public deficit, 60% for the public debt, or a maximum inflation rate set by the european central bank at 2%...). it is now necessary for the community to make employment and the prosperity of the people its primary objective, to which all, absolutely all others, must submit, no matter how much the bank of frankfurt, the advocates of pure and perfect competition or those of free world trade without any obstacles, dislike it.
in writing. this report is a monument of banalities, untruths, nonsense and immigration propaganda. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the migration flows of thirdcountry nationals are not affected by the change in the immigration policy of one member state. these are the obvious consequences of schengen and a borderless area! this does not prevent mr gaubert from proposing in paragraph 32 incentives for mass immigration operations. the illogic and irresponsibility of this report does not stop there. after calling for the optimisation of the potential of immigration, reaffirming the right not to be turned back at the borders, to access the labour market and to participate in public and political life for non-nationals, the report recalls that all these policies must be part of the principles of solidarity and responsibility sharing laid down in the constitutional treaty! is it necessary to recall that this text was buried by the double french and dutch no and the british freeze ? the immigration lobby should come down from its ivory tower and start listening to the voice from below, the voice of the people.
in writing. this report, which is intended to "organize" immigration and promote "integration", is a classic of its kind, discreet about the causes, blind to the consequences and totally demagogic about the solutions to be found. the rapporteur, a right-wing mep and leader of an 'anti-racist' association, is planning to import additional immigration, which will hurt our economy and weaken our national cohesion, in the face of an ageing europe, a still-failing birth rate and an expected decline in the working population of some 20 million between 2005 and 2030. european policy, which is designed to 'establish an intercultural society', i.e. organised around ethnic or religious considerations, is disconnected from social, economic or community realities and potentially conflictual. to integrate immigrant populations, however, they must also show the desire and make the necessary efforts to assimilate. the european demagogues ignore the need to revive the european birth rate, to have a family policy worthy of the name and to adapt our labour market to demand in order to curb unemployment. finally, the report fails to address the question of the establishment of radical islam on our soil with all the consequences this implies for women's rights, security and democracy.
the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on social inclusion in the new member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the report by mr öry is an important source of proposals for the commission and parliament to meet the challenge of enlargement. the fear of social dumping is omnipresent - and this is clearly felt in the debates currently taking place in the former member states - and, in my view, unfounded if adequate responses are provided. i would like to begin by reminding the commission - and this is unfortunately the custom in this house - that if the financial means are not made available as soon as possible to implement the recommendations contained in this report, however complete it may be, it will remain a dead letter. the fight against all forms of poverty and exclusion is the essential condition for putting europe on the road to social progress. we agreed in the committee on employment and social affairs that the answers to the question of social inclusion should not be confined to the field of employment but should include other social priorities: access to education for all, without ethnic or social discrimination, to ensure a common base of knowledge essential for good integration into society; access to quality healthcare for all: the fact that people can still be cured of cancer in one part of europe and die of influenza in another will never be justified; access to housing for all, which is also one of the main lines of this report: these social housing units will have to be intelligently distributed over the territory to avoid any form of ghettoization; the fight against all forms of discrimination, whether sexist in relation to work or to origin, disability or social status, should be encouraged and supported. europe must now protect: to progress, it must first of all be able to protect its own. this employment-housing-training-health pillar is the very basis of what the construction of europe should be, a europe at the service of europeans.
member of the commission. mr president, i am impressed by the involvement of this house and i want to thank you for this important and stimulating debate. i feel that we share a common view on most of the problems you have raised. poverty and social exclusion remain very urgent challenges for the whole union. we have made significant, but not sufficient, progress since the union’s social inclusion process was instituted following the lisbon european council in 2000. i can assure mr mann and mrs in ‘t veld that economic growth and jobs that promote social cohesion are among the priorities for europe’s review of the lisbon agenda. furthermore, enlargement has increased the scale of the challenge. we have also been encouraged by the high level of commitment shown by the new member states. the commission fully shares the view that this process must be accelerated and is thus grateful to parliament for the strong political support it has given to the union’s social inclusion process. in reply to mr libicki, i should point out that from now on the new member states will be fully integrated into the process. the current report relates to the period before the accession of the ten new members. mr őry and mr falbr highlighted the need for cooperation and partnership. i agree completely with this view. member states are the key partners in implementing the lisbon strategy and their commitment to effective inclusion policies is a key factor for success. i equally share your view that the efforts of social partners and civil society are absolutely necessary in tackling the problem of poverty and social exclusion. mrs bauer rightly mentioned the poverty risk faced by women, in particular single mothers, and children. parliament’s committee on women’s rights and gender equality, as well as the commission, strongly advocate the principle of gender mainstreaming, an approach which is very useful for addressing the specific problems of women, particularly as part of social inclusion policies. hence i very much welcome the fact that many new member states are already applying a gender mainstreaming strategy or including the gender dimension in some of their employment and social programmes. even in those new member states where this has not yet been achieved, the joint inclusion memoranda have highlighted the need to pay more attention in this respect. child poverty is an eu-wide issue which touches the whole range of employment and social policies. it very often occurs when parents are unemployed or good quality jobs are lacking, or – as some members rightly pointed out – it may result from the exclusion of particular groups, such as the roma. the eu is fighting against this phenomenon via the european employment strategy, as well as through specific policies, and rightly so. the fight will go on.
in that case, mr rapporteur, it would be more appropriate to ask for the postponement at the time of the vote. of course, as i myself will be the chairman of the sitting at that time, i shall not oppose it. but i think it would be more appropriate to ask for a postponement at the time of the vote.
mr posselt, i suggest that you speak on this matter later. we shall discuss this at the time of the vote and if there is a request for a postponement, it will be put to the house. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on bolivia. see minutes of the sitting.
i shall check that point of the rules, but in the meantime i shall give the floor to mr yañez-barnuevo garcía.
before i turn to the next speaker, i will answer our colleague, mr fernández martín, who asked me to clarify a point of our rules. mr fernández, when it comes to speakers speaking on behalf of their group, the order of their passage is determined by the size of the groups: so, the ppe, followed by the pse and so on. in the case of speakers or the debate on resolutions, the order of passage is determined by the chronological order in which the requests to intervene were tabled. so it's not about being the biggest group, it's about being the fastest. to return to your question on monday night, the third in order was the liberals, the socialists and the greens. the epp was not on the podium. however, you will be able to speak in your turn without any problem. i would remind you that this is a practice as old as our house.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission is extremely concerned about the critical political situation in bolivia. we are following the situation very closely. many countries in the andean region have faced serious political and institutional crises in recent years, but events in bolivia have shown it to be a particularly fragile and vulnerable state, not least because it is one of the poorest, least-developed and most unequal south american countries. the current increasingly anarchic climate, which culminated in monday evening’s resignation of president carlos mesa, is deeply worrying. at this delicate moment the commission urges all bolivian citizens, rich and poor, of all ethnic origins and from all regions of the country, to pursue their respective demands and aspirations peacefully, by means of dialogue, within the framework of democracy and the rule of law and in accordance with the constitution. whilst we are relieved to note that up to now, as far as we are informed, there have been few injuries during the recent unrest, it is now absolutely vital that bolivia’s political leaders and civil society work together to extricate their country from its current difficulties in a spirit of peace, dialogue, tolerance and national reconciliation. the histories of both europe and latin america show that violence or non-democratic solutions do nothing to bring lasting peace or prosperity to their citizens. their heartfelt but often conflicting demands and aspirations can only be tackled successfully by working together to generate consensus and unity. in that regard, the commission hopes that the efforts of the catholic church to organise a national dialogue and ensure a smooth constitutional succession will continue and will be successful. the commission has been making a real and practical contribution to supporting dialogue in bolivia by using our rapid reaction mechanism to provide up to eur 185 000 to the club of madrid to implement a six-month programme of high-level consultancy and support for consensus building and strengthening of leadership skills, which started in mid-april and will continue in the run-up to the long-awaited constituent assembly. the commission and the council have also worked in close collaboration to prepare an eu action plan for bolivia, which was adopted in mid-may. it provides a framework for coherent and structured common action by eu institutions and by the member states jointly and individually. the action includes engaging in constructive political dialogue, providing support for the constituent assembly, respect for the rights of indigenous peoples, exchanges of experience with different models of regional autonomy and providing constructive input and the benefit of eu experience in securing the benefits of foreign investment for all bolivians. bolivia has also been included in the list of eligible countries for the european initiative on democracy and human rights for 2005-2006. in the bolivian context, projects related to training, monitoring and consciousness-raising in the fields of democracy and human rights, projects that promote the rights of minorities and indigenous peoples and projects that support the role of civil society in conflict prevention are all eligible for support. there is, unfortunately, only limited scope for such support to be implemented while bolivia is gripped by its present crisis. the commission welcomes the motion for a resolution by the european parliament, which would underline the need for full respect for democracy and the rule of law and would add a further very important eu voice to the calls for dialogue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place later, after the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on freedom of the press in algeria. see minutes of the sitting.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission shares the concerns of the european parliament and the international community on democracy in algeria. with the assistance of our delegation in algiers, we are following events in the country very closely, particularly as regards fundamental freedoms, media and freedom of the press. all these issues must be seen against the background of a political dialogue with algeria that has been relatively neglected in the past. so far, in the absence of a legal framework, the commission has had somewhat limited scope for raising these issues with the algerian authorities. even under those circumstances, however, in bilateral encounters with algerian official counterparts or at euromed ministerial meetings, the commission has always urged respect for fundamental values such as democracy, observance of human rights and the rule of law. as you know, the eu-algeria association agreement has recently been ratified by all eu and algerian partners. it is expected to enter into force on 1 september 2005. the ratification of the association agreement has created political momentum for a renewed political dialogue on all sensitive matters, including those related to the enforcement of article 2 of the agreement regarding the promotion of democracy and the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms. the first association council should meet by the end of the year, under the uk presidency. on that occasion, the commission will wish to establish links and contacts with its algerian counterparts with a view to working on key issues relating to the implementation of the association agreement, including human rights and democratisation. once the key issues and links have been established, we intend to set up technical subcommittees as quickly as possible to implement the most important aspects of the association agreement, including human rights and democratisation. once algeria is ready to enter a new phase in the reinforcement of its bilateral dialogue with its european partners, this preparatory work will be the basis for finalisation of a joint european neighbourhood policy action plan, in which issues such as human rights, democratisation, political and institutional reform will feature prominently. in the meantime, the commission will use all the means at its disposal to pursue a constructive dialogue with algeria on those issues and will continue to encourage the algerian authorities to abandon their attempt to criminalise defamation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place later, after the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on seven motions for resolutions on azerbaijan. see minutes of the sitting.
author. mr president, no political transition is easy. it is probably even more difficult for some of the former autonomous republics of the soviet empire: if the three countries of the south caucasus are now experiencing conflicts over their territories, this is largely due to the odious legacy of stalin, who, in his strategy of "divide and rule", had attached nagorno-karabakh to azerbaijan. today, the frozen conflict in nagorno-karabakh is one of the main reasons for the stagnation of this region. until it is resolved, there is no hope of development in this region, which is a natural bridge between the european union and asia. the difficult economic, social and political situation in azerbaijan is a direct result of this tense status quo, if only because of the large number of refugees and internally displaced persons who are a heavy burden on the country. if, thanks to the opening of the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline and the dividends from the extraction of caspian sea oil, hope is being revived for an improvement in the overall situation of the country, this in no way excuses the repressive attitude of the authorities towards the opposition. azerbaijan has made a voluntary choice to turn to europe by applying for membership of the council of europe. it has set itself the rules of democracy as a guideline. by signing a first partnership and cooperation agreement in 1999 and by incorporating it into its new neighbourhood policy, the european union has shown its willingness to support azerbaijan in its democratic process. today the union is entitled to expect progress in this direction. while the release of political prisoners and the presidential decree requiring the application of international standards for respecting the democratic rights of citizens are welcome, the events in baku in may - banning the opposition from holding meetings, arrest and detention of opposition activists - are not acceptable. because we want above all to support our friends in the south caucasus in general and in azerbaijan in particular, we ask president aliyev and his government to do everything possible to ensure that the next parliamentary elections in november 2005 take place in a fair and transparent manner and that opposition candidates can campaign freely, safely and with fair access to the media. this will be a strong sign of the government's willingness to commit itself more fully to the path of democracy, as it officially promised to do at the meeting with our parliamentary delegation.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission shares the concerns of the european parliament and the international community on human rights and democratisation in azerbaijan. we are following the events in the country very closely, particularly as regards fundamental freedoms, the media and the right of expression and assembly. we are also closely monitoring preparations for the november 2005 parliamentary elections and urging the azerbaijani authorities to ensure that they are conducted in full compliance with osce commitments and other international standards for democratic elections. some members have asked if we should send a team of observers to the forthcoming parliamentary elections in azerbaijan. in line with standard practice in the osce region, a european union election observation mission will not be deployed for the elections in azerbaijan. instead, support will be given to the osce/odihr election observation mission that is to be deployed. the commission will also consider whether, in line with recent actions and in connection with the elections in ukraine, moldova and kyrgyzstan, financial support can be provided to the osce/odihr fund in order to widen participation in election observation missions, to enable more observers from central, eastern, south-eastern europe and the former soviet union to participate. all these issues and activities must be seen against the background of azerbaijan’s inclusion in the european neighbourhood policy, as decided by the council in june 2004. at its meetings with the azerbaijani authorities, the commission has always stressed that the european neighbourhood policy necessarily implies sharing fundamental values such as democracy, respect of human rights and the holding of genuinely democratic elections. as you know, on 25 april 2005 the general affairs and external relations council decided to offer azerbaijan the opportunity to develop an emp action plan with the european union and i hope that will be finalised before the end of this year. human rights, fundamental freedoms, genuinely democratic elections and democratisation will be amongst the main priorities of this document, which will provide overall guidance for future relations between azerbaijan and the european union. moreover, the commission is assisting azerbaijan with its institutional, legal and administrative reforms through the tacis programme. this whole range of issues is one of the two main priorities chosen for the tacis national action programme 2004-2005. last but not least, the commission is also providing financial support through its european initiative for democracy and human rights. five regional projects are currently being funded in the southern caucasus for a total amount of over eur 5 million. the commission will continue to use all the means at its disposal to pursue effective protection of human rights in azerbaijan and to make sure that the democratisation of the country progresses smoothly in the near future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a moment.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.45 p.m.)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i would first of all like to thank mr juncker very much for the respect he has shown the european parliament by giving us such a sincere, transparent and enlightening account of the european council. in 26 years of parliamentary experience, this is a first for me. i shall come back to that in a moment, and tomorrow, but first i would like to focus on the last issue raised by mr juncker: the ratification of the draft constitutional treaty. i am pleased to note that, three weeks after the success of the 'no' vote on the draft constitutional text, the truth is gradually emerging, both as regards the nature of the demands expressed in these votes and their scope, which goes far beyond the two countries directly concerned. for example, a survey commissioned by the commission itself after the french referendum is analysed in the eurobarometer bulletin in the following terms: 'social concerns are at the heart of the 'no' vote'. the main reasons for the 'no' vote were cited, among others, 'an overly liberal view of the text on the economic front and the lack of a social europe'. the commentary adds, and i quote again, that 'the rejection of turkey's accession to the european union was mentioned spontaneously by only 6% of those who voted 'no'. the choice of voters was, the eurobarometer document notes, carefully considered. in addition, only 4% of the people polled said they were against europe. the message is therefore clear: yes to europe, including enlarged europe, but no to its liberal drift. this feeling, shared by many other peoples, is probably what explains the domino effect of the first two "no's". lessons are beginning to be drawn from these revealing facts about the crisis of conscience of citizens towards the union as it is, including from the european trade union confederation which has just called on the twenty-five to take into account, i quote: 'the fear of a lowering of social standards and of a neoliberal policy' in order to regain the confidence of european citizens. it is in this context that the last european council should be seen. let's sum it up. it has decided to continue the process of ratification of the former draft treaty, and i quote: 'by adjusting the timetable according to circumstances', which is a singularly cavalier move from a democratic point of view. it is agreed, and i quote again, to 'begin to think about it' to save time, as one senior european official kindly said. and as a bonus, the european council has given the european union the most caricatured image of this mercantile, selfish and projectless europe which our fellow citizens rightly reject: there is no better way of turning our backs on the expectations of europeans! in this respect, mr juncker, after working so hard to avoid such a deplorable outcome, found the right words to lash out at the main person responsible for this fiasco. beyond that, the whole club of the six, those countries which for months have been obsessed with freezing budgets at 1% of european income, embodies in my eyes a narrow conception of europe, unrelated to the stated ambitions. what real alternatives to consider, not only in budgetary terms but also in terms of the orientation of institutional criteria: this is the agenda of my group for the great citizens' debate we need at european level, and which i called for at our last session by addressing all the forces of the left in particular. martin schulz seems to be responding positively to this idea, but in a very institutional context. it seems to me that a triple condition for the success of such a debate is that it should first be free of any pressure, then open to real citizens and not to institutional spokesmen of civil society and finally that it should lead to a new treaty in which our fellow citizens can find themselves this time. i would add that the concrete decisions which will be taken at european level during this period of reflection must also demonstrate to our fellow citizens that we are able to hear their message and are determined to take it fully into account. but we shall deal with this tomorrow in the presence of our next presidency, which will obviously change us from the one which is coming to an end. the great debate on the future of europe starts with the wheel hats!
madam president, i too would like to pay a warm tribute to the luxembourg presidency. listening to jean-claude juncker, i was proud to belong to a europe led by a man of such qualities. you have shown that the authority of a presidency is measured by its willingness to put the common interest above its own national interest and it is on this basis that we will judge your successor from tomorrow. i would like to make three comments on the financial perspective. the first is that some governments are calling for a review of all the union's policies, and this is what the european parliament has done after nine months of work by its temporary committee. our parliament has managed to make difficult choices between old and new policies. the council could benefit from this example. i am sure that the future presidency will find it a source of inspiration. secondly, the absence of council positions should not delay the implementation of the new cohesion policy or the next research framework programme. we propose to continue the legislative work on the legal bases of the multiannual policies so that these policies can enter into force as from 1 january 2007. thirdly, the council failed, not on the main issue, which was the level of budgetary expenditure, but on how to finance a budget which remained stable in relation to the union's revenue. this confirms the analysis we've been doing here since day one. there will be no agreement on future expenditure unless there is also a reform of the revenue system, and this is too important a matter to be left to the finance ministers alone. our committee on budgets invited the committees of the national parliaments for a first exchange of views on this subject last week. we propose that the union's own resources system be examined in the context of an interparliamentary conference bringing together the european parliament and national parliaments to help governments to find the necessary compromise.
madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the luxembourg presidency for its work and, above all, for its method, which respects the institutions and is very democratic. i think that in the years to come, whenever the situation is difficult, we will refer to this method. i am, however, speaking with a certain bitterness after this summit and its outcome, particularly as regards the financial perspective. i am far from being provocative, but i am personally embarrassed and even ashamed of the image of national egoism given by some european states. they were clinging to their historical advantages and had learned a valuable lesson from europe from the new countries. once again, the council has illustrated the political adage that promises only bind those who believe in them. but the citizens are beginning to lose faith in it. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council. so, council members, what happened to your commitments to boost growth and innovation so that everyone can find a good job, a place in our society? the council's words have flown by at the foot of the budgetary wall. what we feared in parliament has therefore happened in the council. our resolution, which was widely adopted, was nevertheless very moderate in relation to our plans and allowed for the realistic development of certain policies over a period of seven years. that is my only satisfaction as a member of parliament and as a european citizen. we in parliament are ready to continue negotiating with the european council as soon as it has regained its footing in reality, but especially when it has resumed the progress of a real political project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our european utopia exists, but it requires a broader vision, more generous, more ambitious, more humanistic, more solidary, shared by the citizens, respected by the council, to face together the reality and the challenges of the future.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i should first like to thank president juncker for the way he reported on this european council. i think it was a great moment to hear him describe the work of the european council, applying the concept of transparency. it was useful to have such a report made in this house. i also thank you for the conclusions reached by the european council on the ratification of the constitution. i believe that each people is free to decide whether or not they want to continue this process. and the reason why it's so important to pause is because what do you do when you're asked a question and you don't have an answer? but nobody knows yet how the french or dutch will decide tomorrow, on which text, under what conditions. that is a question that is still before us. i would like to warn a number of speakers and perhaps commission officials and others. to say that there is a communication problem and that it is because of this communication problem that two referendums have ended in a "no" is to make a mistake, it is to think that the citizens do not understand. that is what this argument implies. i think that the citizens knew very well what they were doing when they voted and to pretend that it was because they did not understand that they had voted wrongly is in a way to plead for the restoration of the right to vote by direct vote. i can't imagine anyone in this house would ask for such a development. on the budgetary question, i think the luxembourg presidency has tried everything. the question is not so much whether we are facing national egotism. it is whether we want to continue to be part of a strategy of european overcoming and european added value. for this reason, it is necessary to determine whether this terrible logic of the just return, which was inaugurated by margaret thatcher many years ago and which obviously continues to have the favour of some, must finally be put to rest or not. i think you, mr president-in-office, have made some good proposals in this respect. we shall have to continue this debate. what i find regrettable is that, in the end, the great ambition of the lisbon strategy will not be supported by the financial perspectives it needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take up what president barroso said and first of all thank mr juncker and his team. i would like to congratulate the luxembourg presidency on having been a good presidency during these almost six months, i mean a full presidency, without a moment's respite, a committed, political and effective presidency. the last council meeting did not produce the results we hoped for, but jean-claude juncker gave some very clear explanations on the content of the negotiations, on the british rebate and on the appropriations for the common rural policy, which represent, i would remind you, only 0.4% of the union's gdp. we were just a few millimetres away from an agreement, whereas the presidency and the commission had managed to get most of the delegations to travel miles, and we can really regret that. i think there is one subject on which the council has been particularly discreet, and in a certain way opportunely so, and that is enlargement. but i would like to be a little less for myself in saying that it is clear that this presidency, until the end of june, and the future ones will have to ask themselves whether, as regards the opening of accession negotiations with turkey, we can pretend and pretend that nothing has changed since december 2004, as if turkey had not slowed down its efforts, as if europe had given itself a constitution, as if it had given itself a budget: it has no constitution, it has no budget and turkey has slowed down its efforts. so i think we are not meeting the copenhagen criteria today, which is the ability of the union to have new members without breaking its momentum, and i will simply say, mr president, that it would be a very strong signal to say to the people: europe is taking its destiny into its own hands by being able to say what its borders are.
the rapporteur. mr president, my report concerns the world summit on the information society, a process initiated by the united nations. the first stage was held in geneva in 2003 and concluded with a declaration of principles and an action plan. the second stage, to be held in tunis in november, will focus on the implementation of the plan and two outstanding issues: financing and internet governance. the european union is involved in this process with a coordinated position and a strong voice, because it is unique. if my colleagues adopt this resolution, our parliament will support the union's position and will show its commitment to the success of the process. ict is part of the millennium development goals, which aim to eradicate poverty. this is linked to the material means of subsistence; it also concerns access to online services, whether for training, health, administration or commerce. the rise of the internet and mobile telephony has opened up new opportunities for development, competitiveness and growth. europe is suffering from the four-fold dimension of the digital divide: territorial, social, economic and cultural. this gap is exacerbated in the ldcs, the least developed countries, which have neither adequate infrastructure nor facilities for mass access to these technologies. the first issue to be highlighted is the contribution of icts to democracy. they are necessary to reduce inequalities and promote the dignity of persons, while also providing a means of ensuring freedom of expression, information, pluralism of opinion and citizen participation. these human rights must be respected in the context of the information society. the concern of the smsi, which is to ensure a better regulatory framework, adequate governance, to prevent risks and deviations that would undermine the security and integrity of individuals, communities, or even states, cannot justify any encroachment on respect for these rights. cultural and linguistic diversity must be one of the driving forces behind the progress made by the world summit. this will be more easily achieved in a democratic context, and our parliament should remind tunisia, which will be hosting the summit, of this. the second challenge is a new form of partnership with the countries of the south. these countries need trust and duration to act. the cancellation of the debt of the very poor countries is a positive if it does not reduce their access to finance. replacing access to borrowing with donations alone would be ineffective. the european union did not want to create a new fund at the united nations, which means that we must use the resources available in our development programmes, the cprd and the competitiveness and innovation programme, to encourage cooperation. i also proposed that the unspent development funds should be directed to the action plan. the creation of the digital solidarity fund on a voluntary basis is welcome, but remains complementary. the union must promote multi-stakeholder actions involving states, the private sector, local and regional authorities and ngos. everyone must be able to be both a consumer and a participant in ict enabling services linked to quality of life, entrepreneurial development and the production of content that respects local cultures and know-how. multi-partnership is a sign of trust and mobilisation. parliament will meet the civil society concerned before travelling to tunis to establish a lasting working relationship. in conclusion, the key issue is the promotion of equitable and sustainable development. this is the whole point of our inclusive vision of the information society. that is why i would like the lisbon and i2010 timetables to be linked to the action plan and the involvement of the european union to be thought of in terms of co-development and co-responsibility. our partners must be assured, as we are, of their representativeness in governance and their sovereignty in decision-making. whether it's health, prevention, environmental risks, waste management, or conservation of resources, we are interdependent. european growth cannot be conceived without solidarity.
for the greens/efa group mr prime minister, i believe that today you have issued a challenge. you said, "i want to change europe". welcome to the club, tony. you are welcome in doing this job. but then, let's get this straight. you are not duke john of bedford, mr balkenende is not bishop pig and jacques chirac is not joan of arc. this is old europe. the hundred years' war is over and that must be said to chirac, schröder, blair and the others. europe is the exact opposite. that is why you were right when you said: 'europe needs leadership', but who wants to be a leader? today, a modern leader must have the language of truth. mr blair, you applauded when mr barroso mentioned the 1% and the letter from the radin that you, tony blair, comrade tony blair, signed! you withdraw your signature! welcome to the club, mr. tony blair, welcome to the club. and if i understand correctly, in 2002 it was your government that refused to cap large agricultural companies, it was your government that gave 300,000 euros so that the duke of bedford, the queen and prince charles could have their subsidies from the european union. welcome to the club, mr. blair, welcome to the club. and because you refused that, tate and line, the largest sugar company, received 180 million euros last year. welcome to the club, mr. blair. you will end tate and line, the european aid and subsidies, because they did not deserve it, we agree with you, mr blair. you see, telling the truth is sometimes difficult. you said something else very interesting; you said, "a politician must face the people". you're right, i know. we, i have lost the referendum in europe, we must face this defeat. face yours, the people of europe said no to the invasion of iraq. you must also confront the european people on this issue. welcome to the club, mr. blair. it's always very easy to give lessons to everyone and i'm a specialist in giving lessons, i know it's easy. but if there's one thing i know, it's that if you want to modernise europe, it has to be an ecologically sustainable and socially sustainable modernisation. that's what we're asking you to do. if you say that the french model is not working, that the french right-wing government is not working, you are right. if you say that the german government is obviously not working, you are probably right. but in this case the problem is that europe cannot function on the model of britain, europe cannot function on the model of france, europe cannot function on the model of luxembourg or the netherlands. the european intelligence is precisely to find a mix of models and, for that, mr blair, you must not remain prime minister of great britain, but become president of europe, with a vision of europe. there are economic and social problems, there are environmental problems. so take charge and say that europe, all of europe, must respect the commitments of kyoto. take charge and have england take charge of giving more than 0.35 percent to development aid, because the world's poor need it. mr juncker was right to propose that poverty should be eradicated in the first half of this century. let's make that commitment together. welcome to the club, tony, we're with you. finally, it has been exactly ten years since srebrenica, ten years since europe, the shame of europe and the world, was before our eyes. i'm asking you to take the initiative. the dayton accords cannot and do not make bosnia and the balkans work. take this great initiative, go to your friend george bush, go to your friend chirac, go to all your friends and say: "we must put an end to dayton, europe has (...) "
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the commission, you, mr prime minister, have rightly pointed to the dramatic failure of the union as it is to meet the expectations of our citizens. you spoke of change, of modernization, of solidarity. that's good. now let's take a closer look. in the course of a month, on three occasions, in very different contexts, we had the opportunity to learn about the main priorities of the british presidency. the first time was on 26 may last in a succinct and very concrete statement by mr gordon brown, chancellor of the exchequer, in the house of commons. i'll take four points. first, i quote: 'every legislative proposal must be subject to a test of the impact of competitiveness'. secondly, an independent business-centred advisory group must be set up, and i quote: 'to give business a central role in the eu role making and simplification process'. thirdly, we are going to hold a conference in london in july on the reduction of state aid. fourthly, we call for the creation of an unfettered transatlantic financial market. i would venture to say, mr prime minister, that the social audacity of these lines of work is not obvious. yet a few days later, in an interview with the financial times, you said you wanted to be in tune with what had just been expressed through the french and dutch referendums. as such, you have already called for a reflection on the european social model. i think that such a reflection is necessary, but it is necessary in order to draw lessons from the systematic dismantling of this famous model which has been carried out almost everywhere in recent years in the name of the "all-purpose market". because, as commissioner mccreevy very aptly said at the european policy forum on 24 january, i quote: 'we should remember that the internal market programme is by far the greatest deregulatory exercise in recent history'. so the question is to think about the social model, yes, but in what sense? your belief seems to be that the top of the top in this area is your own model since it limits apparent unemployment to some 5% of the working population. does this figure-symbol summarise this pattern? this does not seem to be the case for all britons. the british model is no more popular with british voters than it is elsewhere in europe, according to mr john monks, president of the etuc, who is close to you. i believe that many representatives of the british working class want fundamental changes. why don't you know about them? it is more profitable to listen to doubts than to repeat certainties. the third time we have had a chance to see what the ambitions are for your six-month presidency and beyond, it was of course during your speech at the last european council. as a famous song says: 'you want to wipe out the past' or at least to commit to a complete overhaul of the cap and the budget. that's good. but again, the only question is, in what direction? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the commission also agrees to challenge export subsidies which directly compete with the products of developing countries, particularly in africa. we agree a thousand times to limit aid so that it does not go to enrich the rich, or the pseudo-peasants who sit in the house of lords, but we do not agree to throw out the child with the bath water, a genuine agriculture that protects us from scourges such as mad cow disease and that guarantees us food sovereignty in the face of "agribusiness", especially american. it's a matter of civilization. as for the famous discount, sooner or later you will have to give it up because it is contrary to common sense. europeans should know that in 2005 the amount of this cheque exceeds the european research budget. it is more than all the preaccession aid to romania and bulgaria over three years. this year it is equivalent to half of all agricultural and structural aid paid to all the ten new member states. it allows you to shed your responsibility for enlargement and it probably helps you to finance the war in iraq. in the end, your share in financing the union budget is four and a half points lower than your share in community income. where is the solidarity in all this? do you want to talk about the europe of the future, mr prime minister? well, then, let's talk about it. (applause) i would like to thank
mr prime minister, you want to put the anomalies of europe to rest? well, your presence in brussels today is an anomaly. you should know that the programme of activities of a presidency of the european union is presented in strasbourg, the official website of the european parliament. yes, europe is in crisis, the summit has failed and your future presidency faces a crucial choice: either the europe of a vast economic ensemble without a tail or a head in which the witches would dance around a buried draft constitution, a sort of blair witch project, or you release the handbrake to help take this historic turn which is the advent of a real political europe. mr. prime minister, you have talent, the speech is brilliant. but who to believe between mr juncker and you? you chose to create the crisis to better navigate this crisis and serve your interests. if you want to exercise the leadership of europe, first stop having one foot in europe and one foot outside. so yes to social modernization, but we don't want your precariousness. yes to the development of biotechnology, yes to a rational european budget, yes to a real european defence, but remember that the cap is a foundation of the european union which cannot be doomed to disappear, but whose survival depends on its evolution. you want to advance the fight against crime and illegal immigration? but how can you believe that for the last ten years the united kingdom has systematically opposed judicial and police cooperation? finally, how can we explain that the heads of state and government are calling for a moratorium on european enlargement in their own countries, while at the same time leaving all doors open to the council? mr blair, the people of europe are no longer in agreement. it is time today to stop the double talk, because it has led to the worst. mr. blair, you have a lot to prove to earn our trust.
what a waste, mr. prime minister! you were, not long ago, surrounded by the general esteem and respect and you managed the trick of disappointing before you even started. it is deeply shocking from a moral point of view that the united kingdom should want to withdraw from the effort of solidarity agreed by all in favour of the enlargement countries. it is economically false to claim that farmers are sucking the blood of europeans when total agricultural expenditure is no more than 1.3% of total public expenditure in the european union. it is legally and politically aberrant that you should arrive at a system in which you want to make the reform of a common policy dependent on the choice of budgetary arbitration. it was at the request of the united kingdom that the court of justice said that it was the legal basis that should command the expenditure and not the expenditure the legal basis. finally, let me say to a defeated and unhappy frenchman who lost his referendum that i find it neither magnanimous nor very fair-play that you choose the moment when my country is on its knees to launch an offensive against it. you know, you won't have six months to repair your three-day damage.
mr president, i am french, but i come from brittany, the small one, and i am even from cornwall, like the duchess camilla. so i am somewhat excused, mr president. you've heard about the hundred years' war. you've even been told to ride the tour de france, even if an american is going to win it. i say to you, make your presidency austerlitz and not waterloo. when europe is in crisis, it always talks about its values. the big crisis is war. the great value was forgiveness. forgiveness made the treaties of the fifties. the other crisis of the year 2000 is the great europe. it's the post-cold war. the great value is sharing. and if we want to talk to the populations of the british check, the check this, okay. let's talk about values and then we'll talk about politics. this is true of employment, especially for those who do not have it, without breaking labour law. the division is true for those who have just entered the union and those who are about to enter it. they need our help. that's true for the south. good for the poor countries' debt cancellation. this is true of the common agricultural policy, because i am not very happy that about a quarter of french farmers are pocketing three quarters of the european money. if you could put some order in that, i say "hat". it's not just the duke of bedford; we have our little dukes, too, for that matter. but you're not going to do all of that with 1 percent. it's too short. the bank account is not sufficiently stocked. so i suggest you take the trip from paris. go and see chirac. pay him a head of veal. you'll see, you'll make up. but you and four other partners, you're gonna have to put in a little more, or else, you'll see, it's "every man for himself" that's gonna get the brunt of it. and that's not right.
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing our group's firm support for the action plan against trafficking in human beings. mr juncker reminded us yesterday that we were able to eradicate slavery and that we should be able to eradicate poverty. we insist that the eradication of sexual exploitation and violence against women should also be a top priority for the european union. we must absolutely eradicate this undignified scourge from our society and this dimension must be an integral part of the fight against illegal immigration. the fight against organised crime and terrorism is also a priority. we therefore support the swiftest possible implementation of the european evidence mandate and joint investigation teams, but we remain cautious about the exchange of sensitive data, including biometric data. the fragile balance between security and freedom must be preserved. our citizens want a europe of solidarity, protection and generosity. we must always bear this in mind, and in this way we will meet their expectations.
i am the last, i hope i am not the last. after a luxembourg presidency, honourably held by jean-claude juncker, you are taking over the presidency at an extremely delicate time for europe. at a time when the draft european constitution based on a careful rebalancing of politics and economics seems to be dead, i hope that we will not bury its content too much. the union's financing cannot be decided by a show of strength. enlargement must be financed in a fair and reasonable way. is it fair that the united kingdom is the only one of the 15 to have reduced its net financial contribution after enlargement, thus exempting itself from any effort at european unification? you have stated that the british cheque was not intangible, and we take note of that. but remember that the cap has already been reformed three times. i am surprised at the british reaction to european farmers. britain is well placed to know the extent to which european solidarity has been expressed during the two great health crises we have experienced with bse and foot-and-mouth disease and to assess the cost to the european union of overcoming these two disasters. the future of europe depends on our ability to ensure that the 450 million europeans who live there can all eat at reasonable prices and in safety. we will not forget that you said you did not want to reduce the union to a huge dehumanized market. your predecessor has said that he wanted an integrated and united political union. may the british presidency share the same vision of our common future.
in writing. the real crisis facing europe is unemployment, precariousness and the destabilisation of public services. the people remembered the good memories of their leaders. those who voted no in france are calling for a fundamental reorientation of the european construction and a renegotiation of the treaty... the pause must be used for this step. the first is a social one: to create growth and jobs without 'flexibilising' working conditions and without bringing down our social model. the guidelines for growth and employment adopted at the summit are totally contrary to this objective. while workers are demanding guarantees and an end to ultra-liberalism, "we are continuing as before". the bolkestein directive and the directive on the organization of working time had to be withdrawn and a social treaty proposed instead. the council is deaf to the expectations of the people. the budgetary impasse must be overcome by increasing the european budget to promote recovery and cohesion. as long as the budget depends on state revenue, the blockages will be stronger than the general interest. the alternative to a european tax is a european loan.
president of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. mr president, i would like to reassure you and mr maaten that i feel very comfortable in the socialist group and therefore i will not speak on behalf of the liberal group but as chairman of the committee responsible for the two reports in question. the request for a change in the agenda which we are about to examine is a bit paradoxical, because the whole strategy deployed by the rapporteurs and the commission was to have a joint discussion on these two texts: the policy of the central bank and the information and communication strategy concerning the euro. the agenda as it stands, with the succession of two reports, reflects this intention. but there is something strange: how did the idea of two separate debates instead of a joint debate come into our agenda? i hope that the vote in plenary will restore things to the way common sense would have them.
mr president, we have referred this report back to committee. the rapporteur agreed with the commissioner concerned to make a proposal to this effect again at the september part-session. we therefore ask for an extension of time with the agreement of the commission.
mr president, i would like to support the ppe group's proposal to the socialist group, because the discussion on the structural funds is so important that the agenda as it stands would not allow many members to speak. i therefore believe it is very important that we should be able to have additional debate time. nevertheless, the deletion of the time devoted to questions to the commission and the council is regrettable. it would therefore be desirable, mr president, that you could think of a better organisation of the debate time in the plenary in strasbourg. we would like to see a rearrangement of question time for the commission and the council, with some of my colleagues even proposing that this debate should take place on tuesday evening and wednesday evening. i don't know if that's possible. in any case, we would very much like you, mr president, to reconsider this. in the meantime, we are in favour of the socialist group's proposal.
mr president, a journalist, mr akbar ganji, and a lawyer, mr nasser zarafshan, are being held in very critical conditions in iran. you will receive an exact statement of their situation and i would ask you, on behalf of parliament, to contact the competent authorities to request their release on medical grounds. all the major humanitarian organizations do it, the nobel peace prize does it. it would therefore be important for parliament, through your vote, to intervene in favour of the release of these two intellectuals.
mr president, mr president of the central bank, mr commissioner, i believe that the examination of the annual report of the european central bank is an opportunity to examine the coherence of the monetary policy pursued by the european central bank on behalf of the euro area as a whole. from this point of view, however, we are led to question what economists today call the balance of the policy mix. there is something wrong with this famous policy mix since growth is not there. as regards central bank policy, for a long time we have been concerned with the need to establish the authority and legitimacy of the ecb, to establish confidence in the decisions it takes: this was, in a way, an institutional quest. it seems to me that we must now reach the age of maturity and stop simply blaming governments for the delay in implementing structural reforms, otherwise we will not be able to move the debate forward. but we must move forward if we are to regain growth and employment. i would like to make three observations from this point of view. firstly, mr president of the central bank, i am told that you listen very carefully to the eurozone's economic and financial ministers and that you contribute to their work very much, and that they are happy to have you with them when they discuss the situation in the eurozone. i believe, however, that the dialogue has an idea of reciprocity and that if you are talking about reforming the pact, about the necessary structural reforms, then, in the other direction, some people must be able to tell you what is happening with monetary policy. secondly, on the decision-making process, i agree with what my colleague wolf klinz said. the way in which the treaties are being decided is probably the right way. nevertheless, as you know, this parliament has been asking for transparency, or at least information, about the nature of the discussions within the governing council from the beginning, and i believe that this is a legitimate request. in the absence of the necessary information, it seems that it is perhaps the lack of consensus among the members of the governing council which prevents decision-making and paralyses the development of things. with your permission, mr president, i will make a third observation in a few words. this is the assessment of the economic situation and policy. the central bank is too obsessed with structural reform, not realizing that there will be no structural reform without growth. in this respect, the inflation targets, as assessed at the beginning of the period, may need to be revised. perhaps you should start consultations so that tomorrow we have an assessment of inflation more in line with the needs of an economy which has to bear the costs of transition, which should not be borne by future generations but for their benefit since, on the basis of the growth they will be able to finance the repayment of this inflation.
mr president, commissioner, mr trichet, i can imagine how satisfied you must be to read mr lauk's report, and i do not blame you for that. first of all, you can rightly be pleased by the consensus that is emerging in this parliament on the monetary orthodoxy of the ecb. secondly, you must be pleased to see how closely mr lauk's report is aligned with your recommendations and how it underlines the de facto political power of the ecb. you have nothing to fear from the representatives of this parliament, because they are the zealous defenders of the recipes you advocate and yet they have failed, with tragic consistency, to restore growth and confidence in europe. then rejoice! mr lauk's report proposes better than the reforms of the social protection systems you are recommending, better than the wage moderation you are suggesting, better than the reduction in public spending you are monitoring. he called for an increase in working hours in europe. this is my first term in this parliament. as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i have spoken several times in this house to express my concern, in the absence of any, about the poor economic and social results of the economic guidelines adopted by the commission and your institution. i note in passing that those who will be burdened with the additional working hours in this report have been more effective than you in fighting the overvaluation of the euro by voting no in france and the netherlands to the policy you support. i am a strong supporter of europe, and therefore of monetary stability, and i am a strong advocate of greater convergence of the european economies, but i would ask you to recognize that there is no single economic and monetary policy that is possible and to remember that the evaluation of the effectiveness of your mandate is first and foremost measured in the daily lives of europeans and in what they say about them.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just come to the end of a long and beautiful parliamentary battle. i need to be reminded of the stakes, even if five minutes is a little bit ridiculous for such a complicated problem. there are three issues. the principle of free movement of ideas, respect for competition and rejection of the monopoly effect of patents and, finally, protection of individual creators and small and mediumsized enterprises against the overwhelming power of a few very large companies. everyone here wants to clarify the law and thinks that a directive is necessary. no one here wants all software to be patentable. so there should be no difficulty, but a recent development, which is barely twenty years old, has complicated matters. when the computer industry was born and the first software was created, no one thought of patenting. silicon valley, mr president, has lived and developed for 20 or 30 years without patents. the software was copyrighted and that was enough. then came the idea of extending patentability in this area from the united states, which has no law on the subject. at the outset, the intangible is not technical and everything that connects to the material world, involves matter or energy or involves tools, is patentable. what is patentable must be new, inventive, capable of industrial application and have a technical contribution. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work. and then software was incorporated indissolubly into an invention where sensors, software and effectors were all together again and were inseparable. then, there were inventions in which only the software is new, sensors and effectors remain old. we have also seen the drift of some courts, some national patent offices and the european patent office to classify the whole thing as technical, with the result that 200,000 or more such patents have been granted in the united states and some 30,000 granted by the european patent office, despite article 52 (2) of its basic charter which states that software is not patentable. the abuses are well known, and we must remember them: educational methods, commercial methods and even surgical guides for the hand of a surgeon have been patented. in all these cases, the free software would have made it possible to benefit all of africa immediately, for example, in education or medicine. but they are patented in the united states, and as a result, they are very expensive and out of reach in today's world. we have all condemned these abuses, including by the european patent office, but its drift does not set clear boundaries. it is proposed that you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, return to principles and law. but some of the flower children of our great industry have not understood us. they are afraid of losing their protection, which we understand in the short term, because the lack of protection will change some of the balances. how do the biggest companies do it today? they trade patent assets with each other to get rid of the disadvantages that patentability brings to those who cannot enter the game, that is, anything smaller. legal costs are increasing very steadily in all the research and development budgets of these companies, to a level now exceeding 20% in some places. two thirds of the patents in force in european territories are american or asian but not european. finally, when siemens, gem plus or alcatel sell mobile phone divisions, it is these divisions, including patents, that go to asia, leaving no chance for europe to develop in these areas. we therefore believe, mr president, that in the long run the defence of our european industry is better achieved by freedom, by open access than by patents. and china is training two and a half million computer scientists a year! how can we resist this battle? better to be free. our big industrialists should have understood this, but instead they sought ridicule, not to mention that this debate has given rise to some insults. for example, you are a "man of the middle ages" talking to you. this shows the fragility of a position. our industrial friends should admit that just because there has been a drift, it does not mean that the principles and the law have to be adapted to that drift. the last problem is that the trips agreement allows both. or all software is patentable, in which case there is no problem: they all fall under the trips treaty (adpic) and wto panels, but that is not what we want. or if no software is patentable, it is subject to international copyright laws. they also fall under the wto panels, but under different rules. in the second case, we are also in line with the trips treaty, but we know that the only thing that is prohibited by the trips treaty is the grey area. if there is a dispute about the reasons why a particular software is patentable, the boundary is no longer valid: "anything patentable" is possible or at least allowed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, can software be patented? for information technology giants like the americans ibm, microsoft, there is no doubt about it. for most innovative smes, but also for professionals in the software industry, such as programmers, researchers and independent developers, software patentability will certainly mean their death. the heavy file has been shuttling between the european parliament and the council of ministers for over two years. the outcome of this parliamentary marathon could lead to the approval of yet another bolkestein directive on software patentability. the european patent office, contrary to the letter and spirit of the law, has granted more than 30 000 patents on mathematical calculation projects or methods of processing or displaying data. often these patents are as extensive, trivial and harmful as their counterparts in the united states. i think that software should not be patentable for a number of reasons, the first of which is that computers use languages and you cannot patent the words of a language, which would prevent others from using it freely. the specific combination of these words is protected and this protection is exercised by copyright, just as copyright protection is exercised in music in respect of a score and not musical notes. this is exactly the principle that was laid down in the munich convention. why revisit this positive right? why remove that copyright? that would make it impossible to write new software. how can we imagine living in a country where we allow a company to have the exclusive right to present a document with bold type and italic subtitles, the progress bar, the use of double clicking, the electronic shopping cart which have already been patented in the united states? we must deny the commission and the council the right to kill the innovation of small computer makers.
madam president, i base my point of order on articles 166, 75 and 83 of the rules of procedure and on article 48 of the treaty on european union, since articles 75 and 83 of the rules of procedure refer us back to the text of the treaties. i'll be very brief. article 48 of the treaty on european union provides that amendments to the treaty shall enter into force after they have been ratified by all the member states in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. in so far as article 48 refers to all the member states, it is clear that the rejection of the constitutional treaty by two of them - france and the netherlands - and by many others if the people had been consulted, has reduced the constitutional treaty to nothing and therefore also, i regret to say, with all the respect i have for him and for his office, has reduced the intervention of mr ciampi to nothing.
in writing. by voting for the phasing out of phthalates in toys, parliament finally resisted the intensive lobbying of the manufacturers of toys and children's products, favouring the precautionary principle and human health. soft pvc toys are all the more dangerous because children tend to bring all objects in their mouths; so banning phthalates was a public health imperative. today's vote is a success in that respect. but this decision calls for others; because the toxic substances in soft pvc are not only in toys, but also in our everyday objects. parliament and the council have rightly called for an evaluation of other products made of flexible pvc. if industries are to be as responsible as they claim to be, they must stop using flexible pvc not only in toys but also in other products (medical equipment, flooring and food packaging). because there have been substitutes for many years. and it is not forbidden to turn to healthy products of natural origin.
in writing. mr maaten's report is surprising to say the least. the aim, it is said, is to assess the successes and failures of the euro, just over six years after its birth. but the euro and the stability pact that accompanies it are a success, according to the report. the only failure would be communication: as usual, the europeans would not have understood anything! the proposed solution is a vast information campaign or rather a continent-wide head-butting! it 's a policy of the potemkin ! the euro has caused a considerable rise in the prices of everyday consumer goods and therefore a severe loss of purchasing power for consumers? it's an optical effect! the austerity policy required by the changeover to the euro has cost one point of growth per year and thousands of jobs, and made the eurozone the least dynamic economic area in the world? you 're full of shit ! the euro would be growth and prosperity! everything that goes wrong is the fault of the states! the eurocrats in brussels are infallible! it is precisely this kind of attitude, mixing lies with contempt for the people, that fuels europe's rejection of technocrats.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i am pleased to participate in this very important debate on the future of the structural and cohesion funds because the european commission’s package of five draft regulations are of great significance. they will establish the overarching framework for the delivery of eu regional policy for the full seven years of the next financial perspective. it will be very important indeed for the council and the european parliament to work in close cooperation to achieve a successful outcome. the committee on regional development has produced excellent reports on the draft regulations. while there are some differences of opinion between the council and parliament on certain issues, we share many common objectives and concerns. i wish to thank mr hatzidakis, mr andria, mr fava, mr olbrycht and mr silva peneda for their hard work and helpful remarks in introducing the debate this afternoon. i ought to point out to mr hatzidakis that i am speaking today on behalf of the presidency and emphasising the need for agreement. i say that because he referred to me as the uk minister. today we are not discussing the level of the budget, though those who argue for a more disciplined budget believe that it would increase the credibility of the union and lead to the improved targeting of resources to where the need is greatest. but it is to the credit of everyone, and particularly to parliament, that the practicalities of the commission’s proposed regulations are being discussed and developed in parallel with the budget discussion. i know from meetings that commissioner hübner takes a very practical view of these issues and i look forward to hearing her contribution and that of commissioner špidla. i am not ignoring mr casa’s report. i know that parliament will also be discussing the draft regulation for the european fisheries fund during this debate. as the uk minister responsible for regional policy, i cannot comment on this important dossier, but i will promise to pass on the comments to my colleague, ben bradshaw, the uk minister for fisheries policy, and he will be visiting parliament next week to engage in discussions on this important subject. i would like to emphasise the importance that the uk presidency attaches to making progress in this very important policy area. we recognise that this involves working in effective partnership with the european parliament. a great deal of progress has already been achieved under the netherlands and luxembourg presidencies, but there is still a lot to do. even when the council and parliament have reached agreement on the regulations, the commission and member states will need to complete important bilateral discussions before the new cycle of programmes can start and before money can start to flow, money that is badly needed to help regenerate the economies of the poorest parts of the union, hence our wish to move forwards swiftly under our presidency. but, as i have acknowledged, these negotiations are closely linked with the wider discussions on the future financing of the union. the structural funds form the largest area of eu expenditure after agriculture, accounting for approximately 30% of the total ec budget. we need to reach agreement on the ec budget before these regulations can be finalised. we share the concerns of the european parliament and many member states – in particular the new member states – about any delay in reaching agreement on the budget and the importance of ensuring there is a prompt start to the next cycle of structural funds programmes. as tony blair said to you less than two weeks ago, we fully recognise the importance of reaching an agreement on the budget and we will make as much progress as possible during our presidency. however, it has to be the right agreement: one that equips the eu to deal effectively with the challenges of the 21st century, one that takes account of the wider debate on the future direction of the union and one that meets the needs of new member states in order to ensure that eu enlargement continues to be a success. in addition to the issue of financing, there remain a number of other important issues that need to be resolved relating to the treatment of structural funds expenditure and the implementation of programmes. we have been discussing these matters in the council since last september and we have made good progress. our aim during the uk presidency is to reach a consensus on outstanding technical issues in the regulations as swiftly as possible, so that the package of regulations can be finalised very quickly once the outcome of the future financing negotiations is known. that is why i am very pleased that you are having this important debate today and that you will be voting shortly on the five reports. that will ensure that the council has a clear understanding of parliament’s views. those views will be very important in building a consensus between our two institutions and we will examine them very carefully in the council as we move towards political agreement. i look forward to listening to the remainder of today’s debate.
member of the commission. mr president, through many plenary sittings such as this and the unflagging work of its committees, your institution has always played a decisive role in the development of european cohesion policy. the commission appreciates the farsighted ways in which you have helped to bring into being and develop a policy which, besides its economic objectives, forms such a secure link between the european union and its citizens. this debate in which we are discussing the policy’s medium-term future is just the most recent example of these efforts. whilst expressing the commission’s recognition of your role and its gratitude, may i, on a more personal note, thank the four rapporteurs – mr hatzidakis, mr fava, mr andria and mr olbrycht – for the outstanding quality of their reports. my thanks also to mr galeote quecedo, who has steered the work of the committee on regional development so efficiently. together they have set the stage for a fruitful discussion today. in replying now to your proposed amendments i hope i can be as clear and convincing as the reports themselves. as i said, we are discussing the future of cohesion policy until 2013. in the years between 2007 and 2013 cohesion policy can build on its present results, but we have to look and move forward. we can secure a growth dividend by involving regions more closely in our economic and social modernisation. this is what is at stake in the present discussions on cohesion policy. the commission and parliament see the advantage of having our regions and cities on side and it can only be beneficial if their role as key actors in lisbon and göteborg is enhanced. it is with these overall objectives in mind that i would like to give you the commission’s reactions to the proposed amendments, a reaction inspired by our common goals. the commission is grateful for your support on many key points. i will list some of them. we have a common view on the architecture of the policy, one built around the objectives of regional competitiveness and employment, regional cooperation in a number of forms and of course convergence. it is vital to boost the growth of the poorest regions and close the wealth gap between them and the rest of the union. here eu cohesion policy has a starring role to play in raising aggregate productivity growth in the union as a whole. we have a common view on the imperative of concentrating finance on the poorest regions. i fully share your opinion that the national strategic reference framework should be the object of the agreement between the member states and the commission. this agreement should provide the basis for the final decision of the commission, in line with article 26 of the draft general regulation. we also have a common view on the essential role of cohesion policy in the drive towards a modern knowledge-based economy. that is why it is important for the council to adopt strategic orientations for the union as a whole and why we propose that member states should draw up national strategies for the pursuit of these objectives. the report before you supports this view. however, i must tell this house that the battle is not yet won. we still have some way to go, therefore, to transform this part of the commission proposal and the views of the european council into a political reality. the commission and parliament also have a common view on the importance of territorial cohesion or, to put it another way, the understanding that economic modernisation will benefit if special attention is paid to particular places in europe. the present urban initiative that was added to cohesion policy at the insistence of this house is a major success and the commission wants to build on it by creating a special place not only for cities but also for rural areas. we have proposed a special programme for the outermost regions and welcome your support. these are some of the points where the resolutions before parliament offer firm support for the commission’s proposals. others suggested by your rapporteurs will be taken on board by the commission. perhaps i can give one or two examples. your resolution suggested that cohesion policy will be strengthened by better cooperation between erdf co-financed operations and other community policies. i fully share your view and i am working to bring this about. however, we all need to understand that the pursuit of this goal and the requirement that we concentrate our scarce financial resources mean that some kinds of project can no longer figure amongst our priorities. you also suggest the maintenance of a specific strength for inter-regional cooperation within the objective for european territorial cooperation. the commission accepts this. you have proposed that the interoperability between the regional and social funds be increased from 5% to 10%. this gives greater flexibility to regional and national programme managers and thus ensures a close link in some cases between investment and training. the commission believes this to be very useful and accepts the proposal. in the particular case of mr olbrycht’s report on european grouping for cross-border cooperation, i am pleased to be able to tell you that the commission accepts most of parliament’s amendments. most important is the proposal that the registration of european groupings should be subject to national laws and associations. discussing the amendments that the commission cannot accept is always a more delicate matter. here i will refer to one or two cases and hope that my explanations of the reasons behind the commission’s approach will convince the house. i have already spoken of the need to focus cohesion policy on economic modernisation. i have also said that this is especially important for the regional competitiveness and employment objective. in this branch of the policy financial resources are particularly limited and, furthermore, we need to be able to demonstrate the added value to the overall economic situation. in that light, i am worried by the amendments that seek to enlarge the scope of the policy, especially the regional competitiveness objective. i understand why members might believe the door should be opened a little wider here and there, but i would ask you to accept that, if we do not take great care, the policy will lose its ability to address key issues and key areas. we have to find an appropriate balance. for example, i do not believe that it would be appropriate to widen the scope of the policy generally to cover operating aid, or to soften the conditions covering land purchase. this is not because of a lack of sympathy; it is an acceptance of the overriding need to concentrate the policy on the main challenges. there are two particular points i should mention in this connection: vat and housing. the vat and housing discussions arise from an effort by the commission to simplify the regulation by clearly listing elements of expenditure that are not eligible for funding. with regard to vat, the discussions in the council and the amendments put forward by honourable members demonstrate that this part of the commission’s proposal creates some problems, especially in new member states. we want to avoid a position where erdf cofinance goes straight into member states’ budgets by cofinancing vat payments. that position is, i am sure, shared by this house. at the same time i hear from you about problems: the cost for some beneficiaries, for example voluntary organisations and local governments, because the vat they are obliged to pay is not recoverable. in the coming weeks the commission will therefore reflect on its proposal with a view to finding a solution to your concerns. much the same is true about housing, although the solution to the problem might not necessitate a change in the commission’s proposal. again, the commission does not consider that housing expenditure should be eligible for co-financing under cohesion policy. that is not a change from past practice. it is merely a clarification. it is clear today from the amendments proposed by members and from discussions in the council that what was intended as a clarification might lead to confusion, thus complicating the lives of programme managers. the way out appears to be to make a common declaration with the council that spells out the sort of investments associated with housing that are eligible for erdf co-financing. thus we would make clear, for example, that investments to improve the energy efficiency of housing are eligible for co-financing and that the same is true for investments to improve the environment around social housing. another area covered by members’ amendments is the automatic decommitment rule known as the n+2 rule, which will become applicable to the cohesion fund after 2007, since the commission is proposing to move from the present project approach to the programme approach. this is the discipline that lies at the heart of the present high-quality performance of official policy programmes and is having beneficial effects on the ground. it turns out to be a strong incentive to efficient and rapid implementation of the programmes. we recognise, however, that the application of this rule for the cohesion fund could bring difficulties, especially in the new member states, as the major focus of this fund is on large infrastructure projects where the investment cycle and public procurement procedures are considerably longer and more complex. we do not underestimate these problems. for this reason, we have been working together with the presidency and the member states in order to reconcile the requirements of proper financial management and discipline with the specific nature of the cohesion fund. the commission cannot accept some suggestions by honourable members that aim to alter the conditions for the implementation of the policy. here, of course, we have to remember the importance of achieving sound financial management which leads us to maintain clarity and a clear distinction between the general regulation and the erdf regulations. we have to remember the importance of decentralised management and the role of the regions and member states in defining development strategies. we also have to ensure that the regulations that emerge can be clearly understood and followed by programme managers and that they do not contain political messages or statements of intent. it is on those grounds that the commission is unable to accept a number of amendments. you are fully aware of the difficult conditions under which the debate on the future financial framework is taking place. the commission needs your full support to ensure that an ambitious cohesion policy to achieve lisbon and göteborg objectives can be implemented by 2007. by adopting your reports, you are giving a clear signal to the council of your determination to take up this important challenge. by choosing to discuss its position on the future shape of cohesion policy now, this parliament is sending the message that there is no time to lose. you are signalling that you want to secure a medium-term future for a cohesion policy before the end of the year. the commission supports you in this. we are doing all we can to ensure that the necessary decisions are taken as soon as possible under the british presidency, so that the member states and regions have new cohesion policy programmes ready to come into operation at the start of 2007.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur, mr silvo peneda, and all his colleagues for the excellent work they have done. parliament's support has been very important in advancing our common objective of establishing a legal basis that will allow the european social fund to support the creation of more and better jobs. the commission's proposals for reform of the structural funds in general and the european social fund in particular are based on the following principles. concentrating resources on the community's key priorities and on the regions most in need, supporting the european employment strategy, since this is how the european social fund will directly contribute to the completion of the lisbon strategy, supporting individuals and people from disadvantaged groups. in implementing the european social fund, the commission will continue to give priority to all groups who have difficulties finding or maintaining employment, without any distinction as to the origin of these difficulties. one of the commission's objectives in its proposal is to involve as widely as possible all the actors involved in the implementation of the european social fund. the social partners should have a priority role in the future european social fund, as they play a key role in the implementation of employment policies and in the european social fund interventions. in the case of ngos, the commission, like parliament, supports greater involvement of ngos in cohesion policy. for this reason, it also strengthens the principles of partnership. the draft regulations already provide that ngos will be consulted when the european social fund is programmed, implemented and monitored. the commission insists that ngos have access to activities financed by the european social fund, in particular those working in the fields of social inclusion and the fight against discrimination. the work done in the preparation of the intelligence reports will certainly contribute to the effective preparation of the agreement and to the improvement of the wording of the proposal, and i thank you for it.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr casa, on his excellent work and thank the committee on fisheries and its chairman for their valuable contribution to the debate on the european fisheries fund. i strongly appreciated the significant amount of work undertaken in order to achieve a timely delivery of parliament’s opinion, as well as the active involvement of member states and the fishing sector in this debate. i, myself, together with the commission services, have travelled to various member states to gather the opinions of administrations and the sector alike. despite the large number of proposed amendments, i believe that in substance your proposals are close to ours and i am pleased to note your generous support for our proposal. this indicates that we have a common understanding that the new fund should serve the purpose of implementing the cfp and aim at achieving sustainable development of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the community. i do not share the view of the rapporteur that the fund focuses too much on the environmental dimension. it focuses on the attainment of sustainable fisheries in the long term in the interests of fishermen themselves – sustainability in all senses of the word: economic, social and environmental. i now wish to say a few words on where we currently stand with the proposal. as you know, the council met on 20 and 21 june to discuss the proposal after significant work had been undertaken at the technical level. under the presidency’s stewardship we were able to progress towards a broad consensus with member states, while taking into account the work that was ongoing in the committee on fisheries. to mention only three areas where we have met your concerns, i refer to the extension of aid to medium-sized enterprises operating in the aquaculture processing and marketing sectors, to the inclusion of new provisions in support of small-scale fisheries and young fishermen, and to increased flexibility in the selection criteria for fisheries regions where local development strategies can be implemented. we did not, however, conclude the discussions in the council on 21 june. member states still have divergent opinions on aid for new constructions and modernisation of the fleet, with some of them requesting the reinstatement of aid for the construction of vessels. i have expressed my position in the council, which i wish to reiterate here. i am not prepared to reopen the debate on aid for the construction of vessels, which was phased out during the common fisheries policy reform. to do so in the context of over-capacity and over-fishing would undermine our determination to achieve sustainable fisheries and our commitment at international level not to subsidise the increase in fleet capacity. we need not only a commitment that our own capacity is not increased, but we need to decrease capacity to attain sustainable fisheries. concerning support to vessel modernisation, the commission is ready to accept some changes advocated by the committee on fisheries. firstly, by clarifying that aid will be available to modernise vessels below deck for safety, working conditions, hygiene and product quality purposes, provided capacity is not increased. secondly, by making safety-related items explicitly eligible under the european fisheries fund. in many ways, the discussions in the council mirror the arguments expressed by the european parliament with regard to the restructuring of small-scale coastal fisheries. i am convinced that specific attention to small-scale fisheries is justified because of their important role in the economic and social fabric of fishing communities, their territorial dimension and the competition they often face from other segments of the fleet. we are, therefore, willing to include funding for the replacement of engines for small-scale vessels, while ensuring that capacity is not increased and stocks are exploited in a sustainable manner. this could take place in particular in the framework of coastal management plans aimed at the sustainable development of fisheries for the benefit of local communities. i am confident today’s debate will contribute to improving further the content of the european fisheries fund proposal. we shall continue our work with the council to finalise its adoption in due time and i am committed to informing the council of your outstanding concerns after today’s debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by pointing out that i am speaking in my capacity as rapporteur for opinions on the structural funds in the committee on budgets. in the time allotted to me there is so much to say that i have decided to select a few points which, in the budgetary orthodoxy of our assembly, apply to all the opinions and can be expressed on the various reports concerned, both on the report by my honourable friend mr andria on the cohesion fund, on the erdf, the esf, the european fisheries fund, and on the general opinion by our colleague mr hatzidakis on the regulation on general provisions. i also thank all my colleagues for the enormous amount of work that has been done. the challenges facing europe are now more than ever of paramount importance for the development of the future competitiveness of the european union, whose structural funds are not only the indispensable financial instruments but also, today, in this europe of twenty-five that we are living in, that we are building in this enlarged europe, the spearhead of the union's budgetary objectives and the essential means of our ambition for europe. i shall not go into the considerable work of the committee on budgets or the temporary committee on the financial perspectives. even as europe is experiencing an unprecedented crisis, our assembly has been able to take its responsibilities into account by adopting in june the böge report setting the union's objectives for the generation of funds for 2007-13. it is true that, when we were discussing the structural funds on the basis of the commission proposal, which was based on the three objectives of convergence, regional competitiveness and employment and european territorial cooperation, we did not have any precise indications as to the budgetary amounts. today the situation remains complex, if not unpleasant, as some of our fellow citizens have put it: we are called upon to express our views on the structural funds while continuing to ignore the final amounts they will receive if we succeed - as i hope and as the vast majority of our colleagues do - in reaching a rapid agreement on the financial perspectives. i would therefore simply like to stress a few principles of common sense, of simple budgetary orthodoxy, which make it possible to assert the prerogatives of the european parliament as budgetary authority on two or three main points. the first is to consider that once these financial perspectives have been adopted, the commission will first confirm the amounts indicated in the proposal for a regulation or, if appropriate and if necessary, submit the adjusted amounts to the european parliament and the council for approval to ensure compatibility with the ceilings, as the committee on budgets constantly points out. the second point, which has already been raised on many occasions, and which has been the subject of lengthy debate and has been regularly stressed in parliament's committee on budgets, is to recall the positive results of the application of the n+2 rule and to propose that it be maintained as a rule of principle. the regulation on general provisions and the regulation on the cohesion fund provide for the application of this n+2 rule to the cohesion fund. the aim of this rule, i would remind you, is to encourage the beneficiary member states to use the funds committed quickly and it requires a certain degree of discipline in the preparation and financial management of projects. however, aware of the potential difficulties of the new member states in implementing the structural funds quickly, we, and in particular mr andria, have worked hard to reach a compromise after long discussions so that this n+2 rule can be relaxed in line with the requests of our new colleagues and that it can be brought to an acceptable degree of flexibility so as to allow projects to be started up and implemented quickly. the n+2 rule will start running on the first day of implementation of the programme, not on the first day of programming by the commission, which will allow for this flexibility, which is very favourable to achieving our objectives. finally, i shall not go back to the non-refundable vat, on which we fully endorse the position of commissioner hübner. the committee on budgets will also be defending its various positions adopted by parliament. the commission is of course prepared to start negotiations with the council and the commission on the financial perspective as soon as possible, because, contrary to jack straw's statements in le figaro of 30 june, it would be truly tragic if we did not reach agreement before the end of this year. if we were to delay the adoption of the agreement, we must be aware that the delay in implementing the policies would have serious economic and social consequences for our fellow european citizens. but in this context it is important to be clear on one point: parliament will not accept a bad agreement and we will not hesitate to say no.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the opinion report on the regional development fund, which i presented to the committee on employment and social affairs, was unanimously adopted on three priorities: the achievement of the lisbon objectives, a policy of sustainable full employment and an ambitious policy for people with disabilities. this dossier goes far beyond social concerns to embrace community concerns and is intended to become the first policy of the union before the common agricultural policy on three issues: solidarity, efficiency and justice. solidarity with the new member states, but under certain conditions. respect for the competition rules of the internal market. solidarity is not laxity! i therefore join the colleagues who propose not to include vat in the reimbursable expenditure, like our rapporteur, mr fava, and not to reallocate resources which have been the subject of the rule of ex officio clearance on the n+2 rule. these policies should be optimized. so far we have been following a logic of spending money on easy projects to the detriment of structural projects. this is regrettable and could be exacerbated by the performance reserve. we must concentrate on a logic of concentration, on a small number of themes. solidarity and efficiency: efficiency means complying with the objectives of the lisbon agenda and investing in research and employment development. solidarity, efficiency and justice: this policy must remain a community policy for all the countries of the union. i would like to thank danuta hübner for agreeing to this when she came to my region of the loire last thursday. the uncertainty, mr michael, about the financial outlook - you have seen it - has not prevented us from expressing our views on expenditure and structural changes. the british presidency will be able to meet there. finally, i hope, as our rapporteur, mr fava, certainly does, that a consensus will emerge on these reports similar to that which was reached on the böge report. the subjects of the two reports are related. parliament will be able to do its job better if the council's position does not deviate too far from what we have defined. in this difficult period it is important that the european parliament maintains the community's seriousness and ambition.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, as my colleagues have done, i would first of all like to congratulate and thank our fellow rapporteurs, who have done an excellent job, on my own behalf and on behalf of my colleagues in the alde group. they acted with the determination of character; but it was also their flexibility and their listening that allowed them to reach a certain general consensus. as coordinator of the liberal and democratic group, i would like to stress four points. firstly, the general architecture of these structural funds represents a complementarity and coherence between them which deserve to be valued in communication with our people. these structural funds are not abstract things. these are funds which improve the living conditions of our citizens on a daily basis. so we must provide for concrete communication at this level. and on this first concrete point, i would like to speak, as some of my colleagues have already pointed out, about solidarity. this is not a question of words. the european union, in these specific cases, is not paying for words but for figures which are extremely eloquent since about 80% of the structural funds, depending on the budgetary guidelines, will be devoted to the convergence objective. you said, mr president, that the structural funds are currently the second largest item of expenditure in the european union, after the common agricultural policy. in the years to come, they will probably become the main item of expenditure. as regards solidarity, i would like to stress that the 25 member states have therefore decided together - and our parliament will confirm this - that we will devote more than 80% of the sums of this first budget line of parliament to solidarity with the 10 new member states. this is a tangible, concrete, resounding and stumbling proof of our solidarity with the new member states, who need it very much and who, i hope, will be allocated well over eur 300 billion. and finally, to conclude on a note of hope - but a hope which will certainly be fulfilled - i do not want to doubt for a moment that the success we have seen in ireland, spain and portugal will not be repeated in the ten new member states which will benefit from these funds. but beyond these funds, i would like to emphasize the use made of them. it's one thing to have a franc, a euro, a dollar, a shilling. we still need to use that money. i do not have time to elaborate further on this point, but let me stress, as far as the possibilities of the funds are concerned, the need to make member states aware of all the possibilities we offer, which exist, to ensure proper implementation. i would like to conclude by addressing you in particular, mr michael, representative of the presidency, to say, once again with a figure which i think is telling, that if we do not reach an agreement on the financial perspective this autumn, in 2007, the ten new member states would only receive about 9 billion, whereas with a policy for 2007 to 2013, a policy of solidarity through the structural funds, they would receive 22 billion. these two figures perfectly illustrate the absolute need to implement the financial perspective now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank mr casa for this very important report on the european fisheries fund, a sector which unfortunately is experiencing recurrent crises due to too much pressure on fisheries and the difficulties in organising sustainable fisheries management, which allows us to maintain a living human fabric and activity on our coasts. we therefore welcome all the measures aimed at improving the selectivity of fishing gear, reducing the environmental impact, supporting micro and small fisheries undertakings and making the policies implemented more transparent. but we very much regret that the committee on fisheries is again proposing subsidies for the construction and modernisation of new vessels, or even for their export, whereas these subsidies were abolished in 2002 because they were incompatible with the objectives pursued and had adverse effects. the funds should be much more focused on human problems: training, technical support, retraining, the role of women, assistance in the event of socioeconomic crises, better knowledge of the environment and ways of preserving and restoring it, etc. the future of fisheries needs all of this and we hope that the council will not give in to the temptation to accommodate certain national lobbies to the detriment of the general interest.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, enlargement has led to a widening of the gap in economic and social development between the regions of the union. cohesion policy, which is an undeniable added value for all european territories, must remain more than ever the instrument of european solidarity, aimed at reducing regional disparities. i share the rapporteur's opposition to any change in the overall architecture of this reform, to any renationalisation of regional policy or to any drastic cuts in community expenditure. the proposal to impose financial penalties on companies which, having received european funds, decide to relocate their activities has now become indispensable. i also thank my colleagues on the committee on regional development for their ardent support for the €1.1 billion special fund for the outermost regions and for the possibility of exceptionally extending the scope of the erdf to finance operating aid in these regions to offset the extra costs of the outermost regions in both cases. i also ask for the requirement in article 299 (2) of the treaty to be fully implemented, which provides for special treatment for the ors, guaranteeing their access to the structural funds, especially for those of them whose gdp is already above 75% of the community average. as regards the european fisheries fund, i am pleased to see that a real balance has been struck between environmental concerns and socioeconomic considerations. the committee on fisheries has accepted my proposal to allow the european fisheries fund to finance public aid for the renewal and modernisation of the fleet in the outermost regions. in most of the ors, fishing is very new and fish stocks are still rich. it would be unthinkable and counterproductive to prevent such aid. i regret, however, that my request for maintaining public processing aid for the outermost regions at the current rate of 75%, and not 50% as proposed, was not accepted. may the council follow the lead of the european parliament in this crucial and urgent reform for so many european regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the raison d'être of community regional policy is as much cohesion between the member states as cohesion between the various european regions. solidarity should lead us to direct the vast majority of the funds towards the new member states, but we must also bear in mind that some regions of the old member states still need the leverage generated by the structural funds to carry out structural projects and consolidate their development progress. i therefore support the commission's proposal because it strikes the right balance between concentrating resources on the poorest regions - in other words, in the new member states - and taking account of the less favoured regions in the former richer states. changing this balance would not only be dangerous for the cohesion of europe, but could also increase the phenomenon of citizens' dissatisfaction with the european project, because european regional policy is the most visible and best known in our territories. i therefore hope that the council will conclude the negotiations on the financial perspective quickly and favourably, so that regional policy can be given a sufficient budget and help the regions which still need it.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs angelika niebler, on the comprehensive and balanced text she has drawn up. this compromise text, together with the amendments which have been tabled, makes a very important and valuable parliamentary contribution. the main objective is to revise the provisions of the previous directives on equal pay, equal treatment in access to employment, training and promotion, working conditions, occupational social security systems and the fight against harassment. this revision will make it possible to present a single coherent text, free from any contradictory definition, to increase the transparency and clarity of the legislation on equal treatment, and to facilitate effective implementation by strengthening the acquis, avoiding regressions and also incorporating all recent developments in european case law. by including all the definitions on direct and indirect discrimination and harassment, as well as the principle of equal pay and occupational pension schemes, this text will provide the clarification and simplification which are essential for proper implementation in the member states, and will ensure a high degree of legal certainty. however, i regret that, of the three main objectives set out by the commission - to simplify, modernise and improve community legislation - the improvement aspect was not followed by concrete proposals in the text. a voluntary policy on the protection of women in selfemployment, particularly in agriculture and the craft sector, on parental leave and on reconciling work and family life should have been part of this objective and i regret that it has not been implemented. i therefore ask the commission to send a strong signal, first by revising and improving as soon as possible directive 86/613 on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and, secondly, by reviewing directive 96/34 on parental leave in order to adapt it to the present situation by introducing in the member states incentive measures such as reasonable compensation and the recognition in statistics of the value of this unpaid work. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the establishment of a european network of social partners in the field of employment. in short, better work-life balance. equal treatment is an essential condition for achieving the objectives of sustainable economic, social and environmental growth and development set out in the relaunch of the lisbon strategy. europe must establish minimum rights for all and ensure that they are respected in the member states as soon as possible. this objective requires from us, parliament, the council and the commission, a strong political will and intelligent cooperation in the service of our fellow citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, we thank you for all these clarifications, commissioner. it is clear, however, that the united states is trying to impose an increasing number of security constraints on europe and we are still not reassured, which is why we oppose the agreement on the transfer of passenger data by airlines to the us authorities. the fight against terrorism must maintain a balance between security and freedom for citizens. the agreements in question are disproportionate to their objectives. we cannot treat all citizens as terrorists. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. as you recalled, commissioner, a klm flight bound for mexico was recently hijacked at the request of the united states. this incident has once again shown that the rights of european citizens are being violated. how did the us authorities obtain the passenger data on this flight, when it was not bound for their territory? moreover, has passenger data been transferred and, if so, by what right? what specific measures can the commission take to put an end to these practices, which are in breach of community law, in particular the data protection directive? you said you had an appointment. how can we ensure that this commitment is kept? can the commission give us an assurance that the us authorities do not have unlimited access to airline reservation systems? europe must oppose this repressive approach to the fight against terrorism. we recognise that an effective fight against terrorism and organised crime requires enhanced crossborder cooperation, but the eu's counter-terrorism policy must be developed with full respect for the rights of citizens, in particular their right to free movement and the right to protection of their privacy.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam commissioner, mr president of the council, the report before us on the european union's involvement in iraq states, in article 1, i quote, that 'we must move beyond the events of the past to look to the future'. in other words, war mottos, its perpetrators and its consequences. i think that this approach is ethically frivolous, politically dubious and strategically illusory. she's ethically reckless. what right do we have to decide to ignore the untold suffering this war has already inflicted on the iraqi people, the 100,000 innocent deaths, the destruction, the absolute insecurity, the shortages, the humiliation of the occupation? once again, this war was waged against the will of the international community and on the basis of a double lie: the existence in iraq of stocks of weapons of mass destruction and the presence of al-qaida in the country before 2003. nor can we ignore the legitimate anger of many americans, britons and others against their leaders, who they do not forgive for having deceived them into this bloody and unglorious adventure. moreover, to conceal the origins of today's fiasco would be politically dubious. the first officials of the commission and the council are precisely those who were among the most fervent supporters of the american president. let us suppose that, by chance, the recent transatlantic summit had to be postponed by two weeks. we would have had a striking picture of the meeting: bush, blair and barroso, a near reproduction of the azores summit of 2003. and would they have anything to say to us about the evaluation of the consequences for europe of their decisions then and the lessons they are drawing from them today? it would be too easy, mr. straw, to welcome the new spirit to pay such a heavy liability in passing. far from eradicating terrorism, this war has turned iraq, to quote the cia analysis itself, into a terrorist laboratory where jihadists come to train in street fighting, and this may be the case for another 12 years, according to mr rumsfeld. you'll have to answer to us! finally, it seems to me illusory to believe in the lasting success of a political solution in iraq which would save the war from being condemned. neither europe nor the un are meant to play the role of occupiers in a quagmire. it is time to send strong positive signals to this whole stricken region, for example the decision to outlaw in the future any recourse to war to solve the world's problems, or the effective implementation of the quartet's commitments, which have never been fulfilled in favour of the fundamental rights of the palestinian people, or substantial help in the emergence of a civil society - and i salute the representatives of civil society whom my group welcomed yesterday - and of a fully free and sovereign authority in iraq. we are told, mr president, that europe urgently needs to tackle a great project, and here is one of them.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'africa has had a bad start', said the ecologist rené dumont more than 30 years ago. now it has returned to the fore in an even more dramatic form. and you must now recognize that dogmatic trade liberalization, structural adjustment plans, excessive privatization and, of course, broken promises have only made an already very difficult situation worse at the expense of education and health policies in particular. the essential question, however, is to the north, to ourselves. are we prepared to make a fundamental change in our model of development, in our modes of production and consumption, in our modes of transport, and to rethink the very organization and meaning of our societies? what is needed today is to tackle, in the north and in the south, problems as essential as the three which i would like to mention here. firstly, as regards access to energy resources, oil and minerals, on which we are far too dependent and which have not benefited the development of africa, are we prepared to implement, yes or no, a completely different sustainable, equitable and ecological energy policy? secondly, as regards access to land, food and nutrition, with respect for local rural lands and cultures, are we prepared to review our intensive, hyper-industrialised agricultural policies, our subsidised and unfair trade policies, to control the market and the price of southern products so that they are profitable? thirdly, as regards access to democracy, the rule of law and peace, both locally and globally, are we prepared to democratize international bodies, to support the democrats in africa, at the risk of losing some of the exorbitant powers of the north on the planet, powers symbolized by the g8 which is now withdrawn as if in a fortress in gleneagle? if we are not able to answer clearly yes to at least these three questions, then this great mobilizing, media show of white knight and generous to the rescue of africa would be, once again, a fair of illusions. the european union can no longer afford to disappoint. we are now ready to take our responsibility.
mr president, i think we can take up mr michel's position, which proposes to do more, better and faster. in short, there are two increases which we cannot avoid, the first being the increase in the volume of aid. it is clear that to achieve the millennium development goals, the world will need to devote at least 0.7% of its wealth to them. as far as the european union is concerned, our targets are a little short at the moment, as we will go from 0.38% to 0.50%. i would like to draw your attention to the considerable amount of money involved: 20 billion euros a year. this money doesn't come from nowhere, it comes from the pockets of our taxpayers. this brings me to the second increase announced: the increase in the quality and efficiency of aid, an increase we owe to our taxpayers. let us continue to have our demands for good governance and help the leaders, especially african leaders, who are showing lucidity about the conditions of appropriation. let us remember that international trade will always bring in more, via the private sector, than public aid can bring in. we must also avoid the easy solutions that give a good conscience, such as unconditional budget support which undermines the work of ngos on projects, or the cancellation of debt as a miracle solution, without raising problems of subsequent structures, or the futility of sanctions which would not be targeted. above all, there is a link between the second increase and the multiplication of the signals we need to send to our public opinion. our action must be legible. that is why i have proposed that the union should take direct responsibility for objectives such as child immunization campaigns and the fight against malaria, because accounting for these actions is possible, even if it is macabre. then we would be an open, united and, above all, effective union.
mr president, just as one martinez can hide another, after half a century of development aid, global rock concerts, debt relief, fair trade and the somewhat hypocritical sobs of the somewhat pharisaic white man, africa is still locked in its poverty. so what do you do? first, to declare water, education, health and food as global public goods. second, to ensure access to these goods through four global public services. thirdly, to entrust the management of these services to a symmetrical economic security council of the un security council. fourthly, to allocate to them as a resource a vat on services provided by geostationary satellites. finally, fifthly, apply to africa the method which all western countries have used to develop themselves, namely, customs protection, but this time in a clever way, in the form of refundable customs duties. and i'm giving you three seconds, mr. president.
mr president, what if, after these past weeks, which have been rather sad for the european union, it could bounce back, particularly on development issues, and prove that it is at the forefront of the fight against poverty? the union is on track with a dual commitment: 0.7% of its wealth for development aid by 2015 and 50% of this increase for africa. i am glad that the british presidency is putting africa at the heart of its concerns. tony blair must also use his presidency of the g8 to get something other than declarations of intent from the rich: the only cheque he has to defend is the one promised in monterrey. the debt cancellation must go further, but by introducing a premium for democracy and we must urgently find new sources of financing: taxes on capital movements, on the arms trade, on co2 emissions, whatever, everything has been mentioned. the conclusion is that, as the slogan of the world campaign against poverty says, "after 2005 we will have no excuses".
ladies and gentlemen, we are entering one of the longest voting periods in our history with 972 amendments. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
if the house does not object, we shall change the order of our votes. but i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, when this happens, to inform the sitting service in advance so that our voting lists can be drawn up accordingly.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in all likelihood this house will in two or three minutes reject the draft directive on the patentability of computer-aided inventions. all our large groups, and even the small ones, forgive me, have taken this decision, but for contradictory reasons. i have no mandate or authority to comment on these reasons. but there is a common meaning to this convergence. on the subject, we are divided about half and half with total unpredictability of the result in a relative majority and a bilateral impossibility of reaching a qualified majority. each of our blocs of opinion prefers the rejection of the text to the adoption of the opinions of the other. but above all there is a collective, unanimous anger of the whole of parliament against the unacceptable way in which it has been treated by the commission and the council. (applause) total disregard, even sarcasm, for the choices made by this parliament at first reading. the commission was not consulted at all in the drafting of the text for second reading. repeated attempts to prevent even intergovernmental debate within the council itself. it is scandalous in principle. the crisis europe is currently going through is largely due to a lack of democracy, and the council has an overwhelming responsibility in this, as it has clearly demonstrated in this case. let this be a lesson to him! (applause) i would like to thank the state of opinion as we represent it here shows that the problem is not yet mature. it was the deepening of the debate which would have made it possible to reach a greater consensus by maturation. on this crucial subject - a few tens of billions of dollars a year at stake - and very difficult, a collective awareness is clearly being born. the rejection is a message to the european patent office. the european parliament has refused to legalise the recent drift of case law to extend the scope of patentability to certain software. if these deviations were to continue, it seems clear that a parliamentary majority would emerge to stem them.
ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with procedure and out of pure courtesy, i would like to ask the commission to speak if it wishes to do so.
member of the commission. mr president, the rejection of the council common position is the democratic right of parliament as co-legislator with the council. many speakers during the debate yesterday mentioned the voice of the people and the role of democracy. without this directive, patents for computer-implemented inventions will continue to be issued by national patent offices and the european patent office under existing law. there will be no harmonisation at eu level. (applause)this means that different interpretations as to what is patentable or not will continue without any judicial control by the european court of justice. since the adoption of the common position, the commission has maintained the view that, should parliament decide to reject the common position, the commission would respect this and would not present a new proposal but, if parliament invites us to do so, we will speak with the various parliamentary committees and then consider the next procedures. various members have expressed the view that the commission should present a non-sector-specific instrument and that it should seek the adoption of the community patent. a large amount of national patent law is already aligned with the european patent convention and the community patent convention of 1989. again, commissioner mccreevy will be happy to debate these matters with you. you have already said you would invite us to the relevant committee meetings and also to the plenary sittings if you wish to do this. on the future of the community patent, the key to agreement on this lies in the hands of the council. many options have already been explored formally and informally.
parliament thanks the commission and, once again, its rapporteur, mr rocard, for all the work done.
we have an olympic challenge, ladies and gentlemen: 972 amendments. everything we do not do today we will have to do tomorrow, under the presidency of my greek colleague, which will be another way of doing the olympics. that said, i urge you to keep up a steady pace.
ladies and gentlemen, we have started the dimitrakopoulos report and we must finish it anyway. i would then ask you if you would like us to continue today with the important subject, which will be voted on rather shortly, on the fight against poverty, but first we finish the dimitrakopoulos report. - after the vote on recital b:
before we proceed with the votes, i have a message for you. i regret that the council is not present, i would have asked the representative of the british presidency to comment on what i am about to say: the city which has been chosen to host the olympic games in 2012 is london. (applause) i would like to thank
we hope that team europe will win medals in 2012.
madam president, i would like to express my satisfaction at the rejection of this common position, since it did not make it possible to do better, that is to say, it was not possible to adopt one by one the amendments tabled by michel rocard which were to be referred back to the first reading of the european parliament. i do not believe, as my colleagues do, that there is any legal uncertainty because events have taken place over the past three years. the european parliament adopted a clear text at first reading. he just rejected the patentability of software. i think we should stop there and go back to the letter of article 52 of the european convention of munich, because in reality it was not so much a question of securing the patentability of software as of making it patentable. this offensive has just been stopped today by a very great victory of european parliamentary democracy over the lobbies and the manoeuvres of the commission.
in writing. the reform of the structural funds will not solve the problems posed by enlargement to the east but will penalise france. brussels has failed to take account of the cost of enlargement to eastern europe, ruined by four decades of communism, and will pay the new member states €190 billion in regional aid. will this money facilitate their economic integration into the european union? the german failure in the eastern länder of the former communist gdr gives reason for doubt. this orientation of regional policy towards the countries of the east will have two unfortunate consequences for our country: - it will reduce the already modest share allocated to france. for example, corsica and french hainaut in the nord pas de calais have not received structural funds for the poor regions of europe for five years. - the increase in regional expenditure, which became the first budget of europe, will lead to a reduction in agricultural expenditure, which benefited our farmers, and to the growth of the brussels budget, thus increasing the french contribution to this budget. more than ever, the european regional policy presented by the euro-federalists of the ump and the ps as a boon for our regions is proving to be an economic and social fraud.
in writing. what european and french fishermen need is not a new financial instrument, yesterday the fifg, today the european fisheries fund, but a future. sustainable development and the precautionary principle, general principles applied to the common fisheries policy, serve only to mask a restrictive policy on fisheries, fishing zones and days and agreements with third countries. the commission's overall philosophy is that the fishermen are eliminated under the pretext of protecting the resource, and that the non-community fleets are not subject to the same constraints and burdens as european fishermen. in addition to this policy, we intend to promote the development of french fisheries, which indirectly provide for the livelihood of 100 000 people, in order to reduce our trade deficit and enable fishermen to make a living from their trade in optimal working conditions and safety.
in writing. if there is one area where rules need to be clear and secure, it is the legal area of contractual obligations. and it is entirely thanks to mrs wallis' report that we are able to improve legal certainty in this area. rather than seeking an artificial unification of all the rules of law, it does so by proposing to harmonize the rules of conflict of laws and jurisdiction, which is the right method for determining which law should apply, which makes it possible to combine the national rules package with the requirements of legal certainty. as regards damage resulting from the media's attacks on reputation or privacy, it should be stressed that obtaining redress has become extremely difficult. the necessary right of reply in particular tends to be violated in substance by the procedural difficulties it encounters, in the name of an abusive interpretation of the freedom of the press. in this context, the solutions proposed are reasonable but must not restrict the rights of the persons concerned. we shall vote on this report.
in writing. this report, or rather this indictment, should be enough to prove to all the supporters of a europe without borders, without culture and without a past, that turkey is not a european country and that our western democratic model is not necessarily shared by a nation that is sensitive to other heritages. this report lists all the serious violations of women's rights committed by the turkish state, whether in the form of various forms of violence, women's access to the labour market or their absence from political representation. the report also highlights the discriminatory system which confines women from an early age to a subordinate and subordinate role. finally, it appears that turkey maintains a system of oppression of minorities, including kurdish communities. the modest progress made by the turkish government in this area and the difficulties encountered on the ground in implementing it do not make it possible to meet the otherwise insufficient conditions for accession to the european union. in these circumstances and after taking note of the instructive results of the french and dutch referendums, we call for the immediate halt of the accession negotiations with turkey.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is difficult for some people of our generation to talk about srebrenica because it is true that we have always wondered what we would have done if, for example, fascism had come to power in germany. for a long time, we europeans have looked at the british, by tradition, as being rather pro-serb, like the french; the germans were for croatia and the bosnians had no one. for years, we left the bosnians alone. it was after the tragedy of srebrenica that we understood the need for a european position, that is to say a position which could not be english, german or french but which had to be a common position. today, when we talk about the srebrenica massacre, we have to question the behaviour of the europeans, not the behaviour of the dutch soldiers who were in srebrenica but the behaviour of the un as such, because if the un mandate in srebrenica itself allowed the 50,000 soldiers stationed in bosnia to do everything, to regulate traffic, etc., it did not allow them to protect the population. we europeans must question this, considering what we have done. doris pack is right when she calls for the role of governments: her government, mr kohl's government at the time, closed its eyes just like the socialist government in france. that was also the reality of the time. today, there is political stabilisation by the european union. but there has been stabilization through the dayton agreements, but nobody here is talking about the problem that the dayton agreements pose. these agreements, which were necessary at the time, have an ethnic definition of the region, an ethnic definition that is found in the constitution of bosnia. the tragedy of srebrenica cannot be overcome until the dayton agreement is put to the test, until the ethnic definition of the region is put to the test, because it is this ethnic definition which today prevents serbs, croats and bosniaks from acknowledging their crimes. that is why we are asking you, mr president, mr council representative, and the commission, to take a european initiative to put the dayton agreements back on the table. ten years later, it is necessary to question what has been done. the bosnian constitution is an ethnic constitution which will not allow bosnia to enter the european union. in conclusion, if we do not have the courage to challenge the dayton agreements, we will never learn the lessons of srebrenica. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that china, through its influence over north korea, holds the keys to peace in that part of the world. but the increasingly aggressive attitude of communist china towards taiwan is a serious threat to that peace, especially since the beijing leadership has nuclear weapons. since 1949, the latter have not given up trying to annex taiwan, which, thanks to the courage of its inhabitants, has become one of the most dynamic economies in the pacific and a model of democracy in a region where totalitarian regimes are still widespread. this aggressiveness will not be appeased by the compromises made by some european leaders, chief among them mr chirac, who went so far as to invite the chinese communist dictator to his castle. only a firm and decisive attitude will lead the authorities in beijing to compromise and in particular to recognise the right of self-determination of the taiwanese. as long as they do not, the european union states will have to maintain the arms embargo on communist china. if our governments adopted a different policy, they would not only betray the values of freedom and democracy which they constantly assert and proclaim, but they would seriously jeopardize the stability of the far east.
mr president, i would like to welcome and highlight the excellent quality of mrs kauppi's work. the subject is divided, but we have succeeded in putting our national interests aside in order to reach, in my view, a solid and constructive compromise which will remove the existing obstacles to crossborder settlement, delivery and clearing operations. this compromise is based on the idea of not prejudging the outcome of the impact study currently being carried out by the european commission. nevertheless, we thought it important to remind the commission of the principles which should guide the consolidation of this sector, which is essential to the soundness and proper functioning of the european banking system and thus to the financing of our economy. free competition first. the system must ensure undistorted competition between the various players, irrespective of their size or activity. i am satisfied that the text does not exclude the separation of activities, when the same separation is advocated in all other industrial sectors to avoid cross-subsidization and the resulting dumping. i also hope that the commission will be able to carry out a genuine ex ante examination of dominant positions on the market, including where turnover is below the required threshold, but where the impact of such mergers on our economies is a strong justification for such an examination. the second is transparency: although our compromise does not allow me at this stage to advocate the separation of the various post-market activities, it is essential to reiterate that price transparency is a key guarantee for those who can benefit from fair and undistorted competition in this sector. the second is security, because the main issue in this case is to ensure that the european financial system is secure and can protect itself against both systemic and operational risks, but also against the criminal actions of certain actors. we therefore refuse at this stage to exclude any instrument, directive or free market organisation, or any model, with or without separation of activities, for the consolidation of post-market activities. it seems to me, however, likely that legislation will be needed to remove legislative and fiscal obstacles, possibly to adapt the european competition rules to these activities and finally to ensure the transparency and accounting separation necessary for the exercise of healthy competition. i conclude by saying that it is time to move forward in this area because european consolidation is under way, without control, and that after having achieved market harmonisation, post-market harmonisation is an urgent need if we are to reap the benefits of all our work in the framework of the financial services action plan.
mr president, commissioner, we are in favour of the accession of romania and bulgaria. the speed of the accession process depends solely on the candidate countries and we respect the efforts being made in this direction in sofia and bucharest. but as regards the entry of observers into parliament, i would echo exactly the observation made by my colleague mr nassauer. we must get out of our bubble and think about the consequences of the decisions we take and in particular the authorities in this parliament. it is quite clear that we cannot accept observers before the commission's report and that we cannot accept them for romania and bulgaria earlier than we have done for the other acceding countries, that is to say one year before the date of accession. that is why we formally support the resolution tabled by the epp. we believe that it is politically and legally perfectly timely. i would add, mr president, commissioner, that in general terms i believe that today, after the crisis europe is experiencing, the defiance and distrust that many people are showing towards the european institutions, it is time for consolidation and reflection and not for running forwards. that is why i myself said that i was astonished at the way in which the commission had prepared the negotiating mandate with turkey. i think that the european institutions are living a thousand miles from the reality of the european peoples. we must come to terms with the reality of the european peoples, and for that, commissioner, we must review the negotiating mandate you have prepared with turkey and, in order to review it and give us time to review it, postpone the opening of negotiations. consolidation means more europe. the leakage means a dispersed europe.
member of the commission. mr president, the matter discussed this evening is a sovereign decision of the parliament and i have, on behalf of the commission, nothing to add to the points presented previously.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs marie-anne isler béguin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial instrument for the environment (life+) (com (((2004) 0621 c6-0127/2004 2004/0218 ((cod)) (a6-0131/2005)
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, in particular the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the rapporteur, mrs isler béguin, for their detailed and constructive report. i would also like to thank my colleagues from the committee on budgets and the committee on financial perspectives for their contribution to the report on life+. life+ is the instrument proposed by the commission to finance the implementation of community environmental policy for the period 2007-2013. in parallel with implementation, the programme provides funds to support better environmental governance and funding for information and communication actions. the proposal is a positive measure for financing the environment. as the reports prepared by the commission for the council show, life+ provides for an average annual increase in funding of 21% compared to current levels. in addition, it is envisaged that the new programme will move from a project-based approach to one based on national programmes. this gives member states greater flexibility to meet their most pressing environmental needs. this approach implies even greater subsidiarity than today. regional and local actors, who are often on the receiving end of environmental legislation, will thus be able to have a say in the design and implementation of the programme. i am aware of parliament's assessment of the commission proposal. however, the commission considers that the main environmental costs could be better financed by financial instruments with high economic power, i.e. the structural fund programmes and the rural development programme. to date, we have had three notable developments in our efforts to secure integration policy: first, the adoption on 21 june of the regulation on rural development; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national networks for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network of national networks for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network of national networks for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network of national networks for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network of national networks for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network for the protection of the environment, the creation of a european network for the protection of the environment, and the creation of a european network for the protection of the environment. the commission is therefore implementing a policy of integration in the field of the environment. life+ would be unable to undertake projects of the scale and scope envisaged in these programmes. life+ is therefore called upon to complement these programmes by focusing on the development of environmental policy, as parliament has often called for, on supporting the implementation of policy, a point on which parliament has often expressed its interest, on improving environmental governance with the involvement of civil society and on disseminating information so that the european citizen can understand the purpose and impact of environmental legislation. the commission's proposal is therefore in line with the wishes expressed by parliament and, through it, by the european citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me, as rapporteur, thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety as a whole for the work it has done. i would also like to thank its president for his support in our approach and, above all, the fictitious rapporteurs who really helped me to find a compromise to propose something reasonable and serious. i would like to thank the whole environment committee very sincerely and formally for following my strategy to equip the union with the means to take responsibility for its environmental policies. i think that together we have succeeded in making it clear beyond our committee that the environment is no longer just a matter of words and that it requires financial resources like all other policies. i think that, in this respect, the message has been received. i would also like to recall that during a debate this week one of your colleagues, the commissioner, reminded us that we must not lose sight of the essential. he's absolutely right, and we're not losing sight of the essential, because the essential today is really preserving our planet because it's unique, because it's fragile, because it's sick from the pressure we're putting on it, and we know that very well. today, together with the european union, we have decided to stop the bleeding: we must save what can be saved and restore what has been damaged. the european union is aware of the challenge it has set itself. it has already fought battles and won them: kyoto, that is the battle it won, the battle for the signature, initially, and the battle for ratification later. it is now hoped that the g8 will also take up its responsibilities with european countries that will press for action on climate change. and the union, commissioner, must not lose its resolve to protect the environment. we have been a little worried about this since monday, since the statements by your president, mr barroso, who believes that the environment and the strategies relating to it would be too expensive. we think that's a really bad assessment. the deterioration, as we know, is global. it's on and the longer we wait to intervene, the more, we all know, it's going to cost. so it is up to us in parliament to convince the council and the commission that, even in times of lean cows, investing in the environment is, in a way, prudently taking out insurance, even life insurance, against threats to the environment. this report on life+ is probably very important because it touches the very heart of war: it is a financial instrument. the environment committee supports life+, but we want to improve it and we have already made that known. the old life programme, with its nature, environment and third countries components, had provided innovative policy impetus and demonstrated that investing in the environment was the way forward for sustainable development and that it created jobs. with the new life programme, the commission is focusing on integrating the environment into the various policies, as you have explained. that is good, we cannot deny it, but we are not convinced of the usefulness of delegating environmental policies to the member states. it is well known that the environment is often not the main concern of the member states. so it is not by renationalizing the environment that we will get results. on the other hand, the european union must support ngos because they are absolutely irreplaceable and must be able to continue to do their work, which is in the interest of all, as you have said. finally, we believe, and you know this very well, that the great forgotten one is natura 2000. in this connection, we have decided to make everyone aware that natura 2000 does have a cost, but it is not a bottomless pit: it is money that will be used for original local development, based on respect for the environment and respect for the people who work the land. you explained to us that you were sidelining and that it would be up to other policies, other funds, to integrate natura 2000. we have been waiting for the end of the discussions on the structural funds and rural development to see whether we really had any guarantees that natura 2000 would be taken into account. i can tell you that the glass is either half empty or half full, depending on how you look at it. we are hopeful about the rural development fund, but we know that it is only compensation, which is very good because we need financial compensation. as far as the structural funds are concerned, we know that they are investments. we know very well that investment is a strict thing and that we do not need to build new roads to go and discover biotopes. so there is a considerable gap. that is why we propose to take one third of the amount you have decided, that is to say 21 billion, and add it to life+ so that natura 2000 can live and can really serve to protect our environment, just as we have committed to.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs isler béguin, our rapporteur, and all the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the fictitious rapporteurs who have endeavoured to present to our assembly, as my colleague mr gutiérrez has just said, a view, if i may say so, unanimous or at any rate likely to bring together the greatest number. life+ and the life programme are an extremely important part of our environment policy because it is the only budgetary tool that the european union has set aside for its environment policies. we are often criticised at european level by our fellow citizens because we issue directives, constraints and rules, which is legitimate and must be done. europe has done a great deal for environmental policies, but we are often told that 'you impose constraints on us, but you do not provide us with much to help us implement the policies concerned'. there are therefore resistances, difficulties which require the union to provide financial support for implementation. there are certainly supporting tools, such as integrated policies, where progress has been made in recent years. i shall come back to this with regard to the structural funds and the agricultural policy. but we also need special tools. the life programme has already shown its effectiveness in many areas. i will stress the need to use life to implement the major framework directives such as the one on water, or our programme against the greenhouse effect. but mrs isler béguin is right when she says that the big issue in our debate is natura 2000. it is good that natura 2000 has been included in the eafrd. but the reality is that a whole series of expenditure, which is essential for the management of the territory concerned and the implementation of the directive, cannot be included in this expenditure. there are two orders of measures: those relating to the operation and those relating to certain territories. i am thinking in particular of the areas which are not directly included in agricultural areas - wetlands, somewhat isolated areas, etc. - and which cannot be financed under the mechanisms linked to the regional development fund and the rural development fund. we therefore need something more: we have proposed that 35% of the sum you have, commissioner, estimated at 21 million, be devoted, under the life programme, to the management of natura 2000. i believe that the existence of a specific budget for life is something decisive and essential for this house. and since the commission has always been keen to tell us, since its new composition, that it would be very attentive to parliament's views, the large number of members of parliament on this subject should lead the commission to support our views.
mr president, the life+ environmental programme is indispensable to support the implementation and development of environmental policy. it should therefore act as a driver for implementation, a catalyst for innovation and change and thus enable transversal action at european level on priority themes. based on the successful experiences of the current life programme, life+ should support actions for the assessment and monitoring of conservation status, for the development of action plans for the restoration of species or for actions related to the functioning of the european natura 2000 network. demonstration projects concerning the establishment and protection of natura 2000 should be able to continue to be funded, where they bring european added value. however, environmental policy is not limited to natura 2000. that is why i am against amendment no 35, which proposes to allocate 90% of the life+ programme to funding natura 2000. life+ must have a proportionate approach to the four key themes of the sixth environment action programme: climate change, biodiversity conservation, environment and health, and the protection of natural resources. finally, i would like to say that i share the rapporteur's view that the selection of projects must remain at community level to ensure that they have european added value.
mr president, i think we really need to move from talk to action, because we are constantly talking about the planet we must save, about sustainable development, in this house and elsewhere. and unfortunately, the day you have to give yourself the means to act, there is no one left. parliament does not agree with the european commission, which has made choices which we cannot share. commissioner, we understand that this life+ funding must be integrated into the eafrd and the erdf. this is transversal, we can accept it even if we can also regret it. but we know the behavior of local elected officials. when we have to choose between different priorities, economic priorities and environmental priorities, we know very well that it is the environment that unfortunately suffers and is the victim of these choices. that is why europe must show its authority in what it wants and why it is essential to provide specific funding, among other things, in natura 2000. natura 2000 is a great policy that was wanted by europe, that was difficult to get accepted by local elected officials on the ground, that was difficult to understand, difficult to implement. and it is precisely today, when we have to manage natura 2000 areas, that the european commission is taking a step back. it can't be! the commission is no longer prepared to help finance the management of these areas. some of them will not be covered by the eafrd and the erdf because they are neither agricultural nor forestry areas. and what do we do in these cases? i would remind you that life+ is a financial instrument and that we would not be able to negotiate with the council as best we can. commissioner, you should help this parliament in the financial negotiations with the council. we need you. we are in the first reading and we must be determined. we are determined to defend the funds we absolutely need. we have a very good compromise and yet we feel that we are being let down by the commission. that would be a real shame.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank the speakers for their constructive remarks and their concerns regarding natura 2000 in particular. the commission believes that the current environment programmes have served their purpose. life-nature and life-environment have been excellent catalysts but, as set out in the mid-term evaluation of the life programme, have done little for the development of environmental policy. life+ sets out to make a difference. its purpose is to provide funding for policy development, but it would also permit, for example, local and regional actors to spread best practice for dealing with environmental implementation issues. spending on tangible environmental investment is best integrated into the funds that have financial muscle, those in rural and regional development areas. i have already referred to the present success of the commission’s integration policy. on 21 june the agricultural council adopted the rural development fund regulation. this sets out that farmers and private forest owners can receive compensation for costs incurred and income foregone because of natura 2000 actions. under that regulation, as regards farm investments, enhancement of the public amenity of a natura 2000 area is eligible for support and the drawing-up of management plans relating to natura 2000 can be financed. the council foresees a budget of eur 82.75 billion to accompany the regulation. at least 25% of that amount – or eur 22.2 billion – would be allocated inter alia to compensate farmers and private forest owners in connection with natura 2000. moreover, it is entirely possible for member states to focus an even bigger share of their national envelope on natura 2000 financing if they so wish. two days ago the commission also adopted the strategic guidelines for both rural and regional spending. the rural guidelines refer to natura and the regional guidelines, clearly, to nature and species protection. the commission is, therefore, delivering on the integration of the environment into other policy areas. turning to life+ and the proposed amendments, the commission finds it difficult to take into account most of the amendments of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to this proposal. i am aware of the 44 amendments tabled by that committee and of a further four by the committee on budgets. i should like to divide these amendments into three distinct blocks. first, on scope: unfortunately, the majority of the amendments seek to enlarge the scope of the proposal. this runs counter to the commission’s agreed integrated approach. many amendments concern natura 2000, others set out more precisely what is already indicated in the text, for example, forest monitoring, networking, awareness-raising and ngo financing. in addition, certain aspects, such as eco-innovation are clearly covered by other programmes, in this case by the competitiveness and innovation programme. to contain this in life+ would introduce the risk of the double financing of projects, something the court of auditors feels very strongly about. secondly, on procedure: the commission could accept some of the amendments in principle, for example those relating to assessing the impact quality of the programme. however, others regarding the adoption of multiannual plans by codecision, would lead to a sclerosis in programme implementation. clearly, therefore, this could not be accepted. in a similar way, the commission cannot accept the additional demands arising in respect of the comitology procedure. lastly, on the budget, which is the most complex and difficult proposal for the commission to deal with: the report on life+ increases its proposed budget by eur 21 billion, but an amendment has been tabled to reduce this proposal to eur 7.35 billion. however, i am also aware that the committee on budgets proposed a zero budget for life+. similarly, the temporary committee on the financial perspectives did not put a budget figure on the table for life+. if parliament were to provide an additional budget of eur 7.35 billion for the environment, the commission would do its utmost to ensure that these funds were properly included in the relevant structural programmes, thereby supporting natura 2000. in its turn, dg environment would do all it could to ensure that such funds were effectively and efficiently spent on natura 2000 matters. turning to the amendments in detail, the commission can accept in principle amendments 9, 32 and 33. the commission can accept amendment 25 in part, as amended by amendment 43. the commission cannot accept any other amendments. in conclusion, the life+ proposal offers a flexible financial instrument for the environment. i hope that we can find common ground in the short term to take this proposal forward.
the rapporteur. mr president, if i may be allowed a brief comment, may i ask you, commissioner, which side you are on? we have all agreed to reduce the sum from 21 billion to 9 billion, which is the minimum. but you say that nothing has been achieved in the financial perspective, whereas mr böge has clearly stated that natura 2000 costs 21 billion. we must have a guarantee that these 21 billion will actually be allocated from the budget. we believe that agriculture can take a third and the structural funds can take another third. the environment must therefore take its share.
member of the commission. you are right that this eur 21 billion comes from a study that we carried out at the commission and it proved that we need at least eur 6.1 billion yearly for these programmes. of course, mr böge’s report had a reference to this. the amount was brought down by the amendment to eur 7.35 billion for the seven-year period, so actually the money you spoke of before was not made available by this report. again i have to repeat that, if we had this additional eur 7.35 billion, we would ensure that it would be spent through the relevant funds for natura 2000 and the other environment programmes. i must underline that, with the integrated approach, we are going to use the structural funds, the cohesion fund, and the agricultural fund in order to get the money we need. the guidelines that were voted on last week and two days ago will really help us in this respect. the rural development fund, and especially axis 2, which deals with land management, will get at least 25 % of the rural funding of eur 22.2 billion. this will also help greatly with programmes which the member states have an interest in financing as they have a legal obligation to finance projects relating to natura 2000.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon.
the agenda calls for the report by tokia saïfi, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the future of textiles and clothing after 2005 (2004/2265 (ini)) (a6-0193/2005)
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, commissioner, without calling you to question, i can only regret that mr peter mandelson or mr verheugen are not present today at this debate on this matter which has been in the forefront of the news for several months. the european textile and clothing industry has a future and commercial interests to defend. following the memorandum of understanding signed in shanghai on 10 june between the european commission and the chinese government and endorsed by the 25 member states, the european parliament is today taking a decision on the future of european textiles and clothing. a future we all want to see promising, despite the many upheavals that have occurred in the sector in recent months. i believe that this framework agreement, the trade liberalization agreement, gives a certain respite to the european textile industries. nevertheless, i believe that the european parliament must be attentive to the management and monitoring of this agreement. i think we must be able to maintain certain safeguards and use the trade defence instruments we have in the wto when necessary. in the long term, the european union and national authorities must therefore help develop measures to capitalise on the production and sales potential of european manufacturers and to ensure that fair and fair trade rules are respected on the world textile and clothing market. i would therefore like to recall the slogan that a trade policy with the rest of the world must be based on two principles: equity and reciprocity. in this context, and in order to remain competitive in this new commercial environment, free access to third country markets constitutes a major and indispensable competitive interest. the commission must therefore encourage all wto countries, with the exception of the most vulnerable developing countries, to achieve, in the doha negotiations, reciprocal market access conditions which are both fair and comparable for the major textile and clothing producers. it is also necessary to maintain a firm stance against countries which still close their borders to europeans by erecting non-tariff trade barriers. these practices must be combated by means of the legal instruments available to the european union. six months before the hong kong ministerial meeting, i would stress, commissioner, that the removal of barriers to market access for industrial products must be a key objective of the doha mandate. it is also essential, as this resolution states, to protect our european know-how, our european added value. this requires defending intellectual property rights and fighting against counterfeiting and piracy. the commission must take an aggressive stance to ensure that third countries comply with the trips agreements, particularly in the area of textile designs. how necessary it is to establish an ethical trade based on production that respects the environment, health and labour standards. finally, to respond to the slowdown in the european textile industry and to guarantee its future and competitiveness in the face of the american and asian regional aggregates, we must support the creation of a euro-mediterranean production area for the textile and clothing sector. this requires smoother movement of goods by applying the pan-euro-mediterranean cumulation of origin as soon as possible. in parallel with these trade measures, the european union must draw up a concrete plan for transitional aid for the restructuring and conversion of the whole sector in order to help the textile producing regions and to guarantee the future and competitiveness of the sector on international markets. the european commission, commissioner, must study the points of this resolution in detail and put the recommendations made there into practice by taking concrete action. i would also ask the commission, on behalf of the european parliament, to report to the members of this institution on a quarterly basis on all the suggestions made in this resolution and on the action it has taken. finally, if the future of this sector is to be truly promising, it requires constant attention to its construction. that is what i am asking for today in the textile and clothing sector, a key sector in the european union.
several colleagues are addressing the chair on the subject of, as you may know, serious events taking place at the moment with a series of explosions in london transport. several subway stations and several buses have been targeted, with reports of injuries, possibly deaths, we don't know more at this time. i understand that some colleagues wish to speak on this subject. i would simply like to say to them that the presidency and the whole of parliament are, of course, very concerned about what is happening. i simply propose that we do not open a debate now. these events are taking place. i've been informed. i've been looking into it. there was another explosion just a few minutes ago. a third incident, as the british call it, but which is more than that, it is probably an attack, occurred in a london underground station. i think we should wait a little while before we can discuss it, before we know what is happening, before we have any information. for now, the london underground is completely blocked, paralyzed, closed. in the meantime, i wanted to make this announcement in front of you, to say that of course our parliament is more than concerned about what is happening. i therefore propose that we continue our debate until we have more information.
mr allister, parliament, which i believe shares the condemnation of terrorism that you have just expressed, also expresses its deepest sympathy for the wounded, since we do not yet know whether there are any deaths. terrorism, since it is apparently terrorism, will always find on its way mobilized europeans who refuse to give in. we know that there were several major events in london yesterday, a happy event with london being chosen as the city of the olympics in 2012 and the g8 taking place. so what happened was probably not a coincidence. let us therefore express our strongest condemnation.
we shall now adjourn this debate, which will resume at 3 p.m.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to replace part of the amendment, that is to say, we would like to replace the words 'priority will be given' with the words 'the commission will encourage'.
mr president, i would like to make a concrete proposal: we were not able to vote on mrs saïfi's report on textiles this morning and i know that it is planned to be put to the vote this afternoon. i think that, in view of the considerable stakes involved in textile problems, particularly in employment, we should not be taking such a subject lightly this afternoon. i suggest that we postpone the vote until the next part-session. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i understand very well the arguments put forward by my colleagues, because this textile problem is indeed a fundamental problem. i would simply remind you that the plenary session in strasbourg ends on thursday afternoon at about 5 p.m. and that members should be present. to ask for such a postponement is to accept that we were not working until the end of our plenary sessions as scheduled. i'm really sorry about that.
mr president, first of all, as we are returning to this debate in very painful circumstances, allow me to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims of the attacks in london, whose terrible consequences we are learning minute by minute. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will continue to make proposals in the future. i would like to emphasize some points which i consider essential. the first concerns two paragraphs in this report which are designed to downplay the scope of the reach directive and which we consider to be totally unacceptable. these two paragraphs suggest very clearly that the scope of the directive should be limited in order to avoid harmful consequences for the textile industry and its competitiveness. i would remind you that the reach directive, which is currently being discussed in parliament, proposes to register, assess and control the use of chemicals which could be harmful to our health and the environment. these references are therefore totally unacceptable, because we do not believe that the competitiveness of our industry can be indexed on the back of the health, the environment and the working conditions of the employees. this is all the more unacceptable because in my region, for example nord-pas-de-calais, which is hard hit by restructuring, we are unfortunately very familiar with this kind of discourse, which advocates moderation of environmental demands in order to preserve, so to speak, employment. this systematically results in social and environmental disaster. i am thinking of course of the many workers who have been victims of asbestos. i am also thinking of the metallurgy case, which has been the subject of much discussion in this house and which has caused the people of the region to lose their jobs, their health and their land, which has been unusable for years. this attack on the reach directive is therefore highly unwelcome, especially as its effects on the textile and chemical industries in general are expected to encourage and boost the capacity for innovation. our discussion should be much more focused on the competitive advantage of low production prices for textiles in china. it should be noted that these low production costs are due to the exploitation of chinese workers and the violent repression of their demands. let me quote from a relatively recent amnesty international report, since it dates from 2002, which states very clearly that in private companies in china, overtime is not only mandatory, but also unpaid, that some factories impose fines on those who refuse to work overtime or those who show up late for work. chinese workers work between ten and twelve hours a day and their housing and food costs are sometimes directly deducted from their wages. it is not uncommon for companies to withhold wages for up to two months or to keep the identity cards of certain workers for several months. in short, a huge union crackdown. and since we have a structured dialogue with china on human rights - a dialogue that took place last week - it seems to me that we should focus on trade union freedoms. the many trade unionists who are now in chinese prisons should be protected, protected in accordance with the european union guidelines on human rights defenders. this is a very important part of the debate which has been, i think, unfairly overlooked.
mr president, since 1 january, hundreds of textile workers have been thrown out on the streets, and dozens of smes have disappeared with their know-how. it's hard to say, but it's not the pants and t-shirts imported from china that count, but the jobs destroyed and the lives destroyed. when we hear the commission and the council of ministers say 'we do not know, we did not know, we could not have known, it is china's fault', i can only exclaim: who are they kidding? the decision to abolish quotas was taken ten years ago with the agreement of all governments. china has been a member of the wto for almost four years. in the last two years, nine out of every ten textile machines produced have been purchased from china. ultra-modern factories have been built there with the direct or indirect contribution of capital from other countries, including europe. all this was known by the governments and the european institutions, and they did little or nothing about it. they are therefore fully and jointly responsible. it is not the pathetic agreement that commissioner mandelson has made with the beijing authorities that will change anything. the ineffable commissioner mandelson is like the doctor in molière: he waits for the patient to die to make sure of his illness. but can the general european interest be reconciled with the city's particular interests: investing in china, turkey or elsewhere? today it's textiles, but tomorrow it will be automobiles or maybe aerospace. because china is already making airbus doors and building regional airplanes that compete with european, canadian and brazilian products. you were astonished at the visceral rejection of your ultra-liberal constitution by the majority of the few peoples of europe who had the floor! but this massive rejection is a popular sanction against your policy, including that on textiles. the citizens do not want this policy to become the fundamental law of the union. to save and develop our textile industry, it is time for a change in policy. after a moratorium on the lifting of quotas has been introduced, the commission should encourage and support research/development and training efforts in this sector. the european central bank should encourage the establishment of subsidised loans for smes/smes in the sector, promoting employment, research and training. the union must take measures to prohibit the import of goods produced by children or by forced or restricted labour and to tax social dumping. finally, we must help the developing countries to develop their internal markets.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening today with textiles in the economic trade between china and europe is, in our view, the prelude to what will happen in many areas in the years to come. we're only at the first stage. the answers we give today to this question will therefore be useful to other sectors of our industry tomorrow. we cannot accept the deregulation of international trade without considering the human, economic and environmental consequences. we can see this in the textile sector, where the end of quotas was not well understood, and where there are no longer any restructuring of firms or even outright closures in the regions where this activity is still very present. we see human tragedies with a certain form of helplessness. the introduction of safeguard clauses, aid for research and information, the fight against counterfeiting are good ways forward, but we cannot stop there. in paragraphs 18 and 24 of her report, mrs saïfi rightly stresses the need to combat all forms of modern slavery and forced labour and the exploitation of children. our modern economy, which is based on respect for human dignity, among other things, will never be able to compete with such deviations. but mrs. saifi's answers to combat these scourges are insufficient, we must know how to strike where it hurts. that is why, together with 50 of our colleagues from four political groups, we tabled an amendment asking the commission to consider introducing an ethical tax on products whose manufacture we have evidence of violating all the rules of human dignity, and especially the exploitation of children. it is essential that an institution like ours serve generations and serve as a generator of hope.
mr president, i welcome the outcome of the european commission's negotiations with the chinese authorities, which are giving companies affected by the massive increase in imports a respite in this extremely serious crisis situation for the textile and clothing sector. it is now necessary to monitor the implementation of the safeguard clauses and to assess the effects of these measures. i would like to ask the commissioner three questions. how will you respond to this european parliament resolution on the future of textiles and clothing? how will you implement the recommendations of the high level group which have been very well received by parliament? and what actions do you plan to develop to enable companies to access the market? for example, could the european union support common commercial strategies for european smes, which would like to form consortia to conquer new markets such as china? other colleagues have said it before me: the current crisis in the textile sector was foreseeable and crises in other industrial sectors are to be expected in the context of a globalised economy. we must all work with ingenuity, with tenacity to save the textile, clothing and leather industries, because the lessons we learn from this crisis will ultimately help us to maintain and develop other sectors of the european economy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the effectiveness of the posei has been proven and recognized by the european commission, it was only two years after the implementation of the last reform that the commission felt that the arrangements for the management of the specific supply arrangements and the support for local production in the outermost regions needed to be changed. the european commission has, however, committed itself to ensuring that the proposed reform does not call into question the appropriateness or the functioning of the measures and does not affect the sources of funding or the level of community support. however, certain conditions laid down in the proposal for a regulation imply greater complexity for the beneficiaries in terms of evaluation, programming, monitoring or control procedures than in the present framework. secondly, the proposed budgetary envelope for the specific supply arrangements, calculated on the basis of too strict historical references, in reality constitutes a restriction on the level of community support, contrary to the commission's promises, and risks hampering the development of the sectors concerned, whereas if the poseidom were not modified until the end of 2006, the rsa would continue its current rate of growth and would therefore increase substantially. the development of diversification channels in the french overseas departments would be impossible without poseidom. to take a different approach today would be to consider that all the efforts made so far, both by the european union and by local farmers, have been in vain. the excellent report by mr freitas makes a balanced compromise between the need for reform and the preservation of a system of support for sustainable agriculture on small farms in the ors. i sincerely hope that the commission and especially the council will take parliament's opinion as a broad guide and avoid any, even partial, questioning of the current aid measures.
mr president, i must say, in support of my excellent colleague mr posselt, that from a certain point of view we are very surprised by what has happened with the saifi report. i would like us to consider the consequences of this, because it is a signal to all those who care about the strasbourg seat. everyone knows this seat is under threat. let us return to the vote this morning: apart from the question raised in mrs saïfi's report on an important subject, textiles, which in my opinion should not have been postponed for two months, since it was an urgent matter, there is also the signal we gave by admitting that it is impossible to do anything important in the strasbourg parliament's chamber, at the strasbourg seat, which i consider to be the main seat of the european parliament, from thursday at 12.30. since our work begins on tuesday morning, to be clear and frank, if it were to end on thursday morning it would mean that the strasbourg parliament, in strasbourg, would be meeting for only two days a month, roughly. this is a consequence, and i ask all my colleagues to appreciate the importance of this, and that is why i am making a solemn protest on this subject.
mr president, commissioner, europe under water, europe under fire, this must not be a fatality, but unfortunately it is a repetition. and every year, we have to talk about it. these are wrongly called natural disasters. in fact, we know that the initial causes of fires are almost always man-made, either because they are criminal, or because they are related to negligence, or because they are due to political choices that have led us to leave entire areas abandoned. in the face of these disasters, we must come together, show solidarity. we need a real european civil security organisation, with human and material resources, so that there can be genuine european mutual aid. you have made proposals to that effect, commissioner. in view of the scale of the disaster in portugal, i was struck by the lack of resources on the ground. this means drawing up a precise inventory of each country's strengths, and it is up to the commission to take the initiative. we shall support her in this. we also need to make repairs, and to do that we need to use the structural funds or the cohesion funds. but it's got to be used for prevention. in this area, information campaigns calling for vigilance and reminding arsonists of the penalties incurred must be introduced or, where appropriate, strengthened. in the field of forestry and agricultural policy, let us admit our mistakes, let us question the decisions which have led to the abandonment of land and the advance of the maquis, where it is impossible for our civil security forces to intervene effectively. we also need to make better use of plant species to fight fires. the floods that struck central and alpine europe were not a coincidence either. we have the tools and the complete system to do this, and we have the means to do it. we must absolutely ask the member states to fulfil their part of the contract and to put in place national enforcement measures without delay. the commission must also make proposals for 2012. of course, we are concerned first and foremost with the lives of people, our firefighters and rescue workers, not to mention the ecological disaster and the need to restore the natural environment. we must intervene with all the direct and indirect victims in mind. in my circuit in the alps, we had floods, and in provence and corsica, we had fires. that is why european solidarity must function as a survival reflex. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would first like to express my sympathy with the victims of the forest fires which have ravaged parts of southern europe this summer. unfortunately, the problem of forest fires is not a new one. the question of fire prevention and damage compensation has been the subject of a framework for action at community level for more than 13 years, and the tragic consequences of these fires have been deplored in this house for years at the start of the new session; it's time to act. the european union must first of all strengthen crossborder cooperation. member states often use equipment which is not compatible. it is also urgent to propose community action programmes for civil protection which are worthy of the name. more generally, and without replacing the member states, the european union must give forests the place they deserve both at political and institutional level. the commission proposal on the forestry strategy, which we are now considering, seems a little timid to me. forests cover 40% of the surface of the european union. it generates significant economic activity and has environmental and recreational functions that i will not mention. it deserves better than a tug-of-war between the environment and agriculture. for these reasons and in order to be even more effective, the creation of a forestry agency should be seriously considered, and why not - it is not forbidden to dream - a general directorate specifically for forests.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the green group also fully supports mr sjöstedt's report and congratulates him on his work. it is true that at a time when political europe is being sought, the european citizens are demanding that health security and environmental protection remain a priority for the union. this draft directive goes in that direction and will also provide legal clarification. this directive is justified by the importance of the waste generated by mining operations, which, as we know, produce nearly a third of the waste generated in the union each year, some of which is toxic or very toxic. if not properly handled and stored, they can pose a serious threat to the environment and to human safety. we all remember the consequences of the disasters in baia mare and baia borsa. the directive should also provide the new countries with the means to eradicate the harmful waste products of past extractions. the european union must set an example by introducing rules on farms which guarantee the safety of workers and better protection of the environment. i would like to give three examples, if i may. the first concerns the exploitation of uranium mines in niger by european companies. i know something about them. they're french companies. the question of waste contamination has been raised on many occasions, for example during the irish presidency, but still today there is no answer. the second example concerns the highly controversial project to open a gold mine in romania at rosia montana, which involves the construction of a reservoir for the disposal of highly toxic mining waste with a dam - beware - 30 metres high. finally, the last example is the destruction of the coral reef in new caledonia, for which we are responsible, by waste from nickel mining. the latter example, commissioner, illustrates the need to prohibit direct discharges into inland, coastal and maritime waters, unless, of course, it is compatible with the water and waste directives. for all these reasons we support the work of our rapporteur and we hope that you will support these amendments.
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in august six major accidents affected commercial air transport worldwide. all of them were european passengers. in the face of these tragic events, i would like to express, on behalf of the whole commission, my condolences to the families of the victims and assure them of our deep sympathy. the commission reacted immediately to the accidents by intensifying its contacts with the civil aviation authorities of the member states concerned in order to gather all relevant information. the commission sent a mission of experts to cyprus to assess the situation of air transport in the country and to identify specific needs and challenges. the commission contributed to the adoption of an action programme by the directors-general of european civil aviation meeting in romania on 27 august. but beyond these reactions, we must continue to act with determination in favour of aviation safety to build up passenger confidence and also to cope with the rapid growth of air traffic. action at community level is needed. in fact, an initial proposal in the field of transport was aimed primarily at improving aviation safety. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, will ensure that all member states strictly monitor the proper application of existing community law. in this context, it will instruct the european aviation safety agency to carry out inspection missions to the competent national authorities. it is imperative that they carry out all the necessary checks and devote the necessary resources to this. i would now like to stress the continuation and strengthening of the legislative initiatives. we must improve transparency for passengers and to do this we must establish a community blacklist on which all airlines subject to a flight ban must appear. such a measure will not only inform the public but also avoid divergent approaches from one member state to another. prohibition measures must apply throughout the community and be adopted on the basis of common criteria. to do this, the commission must be able to extend the prohibition measures taken at national level to the whole territory of the union: citizens throughout the union must have the same guarantees. the proposal for a regulation on air carrier identity submitted to the european parliament last february offers the possibility of rapidly putting such a system into place and i would like to congratulate mrs de veyrac, the rapporteur for the committee on transport and tourism, who took the initiative to complete the text proposed by the commission and on which the council of ministers gave its agreement in principle. the work of your committee on transport - and i should also like to take this opportunity to thank its chairman, mr costa - will enable us to have a much more complete system. secondly, the control mechanisms for aircraft from third countries, which must be rapidly strengthened. ground inspections need to be more comprehensive and targeted. to this end, the commission will very soon be submitting proposals to transfer to the european aviation safety agency the management of the safety control of foreign aircraft, i am talking about the safa programme, and to set up an early warning system between the member states, easa and the commission. thirdly, the community must have a coherent and uniform set of rules covering all safety-related issues and, in the preparation and implementation of these rules, the role of our european aviation safety agency must be strengthened. in this context, as from this autumn, i will propose a new regulation to extend the agency's tasks to air operations, pilot licences and aircraft from third countries. this extension will enable the european agency to intervene effectively in the supervision of both european and third-country airlines. fourthly, madam president, i would like to stress that the strengthening of the european air safety system must be accompanied by action with third countries, with the icao, the international civil aviation organisation. the safety standards outside the union must be raised. the european union is ready to continue its technical assistance to developing countries and to play a major role in icao. i have just received a minister from a latin american government this morning, and i have explained to him that we are at the disposal of the states concerned to help them strengthen technical cooperation in this field. i would also like to say in front of parliament that the european union can take its place as such in icao, precisely to play an even more decisive role in raising safety levels. in summary, ladies and gentlemen, i can say that the european union, even before the serious accidents of the summer, had already anticipated, through this draft regulation on passenger information, the need to offer passengers the possibility of knowing the identity of the carrier. i hope that the entire text, enriched by the work of your committee, can be adopted quickly by parliament and approved by the member states. in this way, by the end of the year, we will really have a blacklist based on criteria which are harmonised across all the member states. we will thus take a decisive step in improving air safety.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. the tragic events of this summer and what happened again this morning give us - as you said, mr commissioner - a real responsibility to adopt new measures as a matter of urgency to strengthen the safety of air passengers and their information. contrary to recent accidents, air safety has not deteriorated over the years and the plane remains by far the safest means of transport in the world; let's face it, there is no such thing as zero risk. the sharp increase in air traffic could lead to an increase in the number of plane accidents and deaths, some experts even predict an average of one accident per week by 2020; this is not acceptable. we must act quickly and effectively, and it is the duty of parliament and the european union to protect the security of european citizens as much as possible. we must therefore, as the united states is doing, remedy the existing shortcomings and provide for a european system which, in addition to the international civil aviation organisation (icao), would go further in strengthening aviation safety. in the draft report i presented to the committee on transport and tourism last tuesday, i asked for a blacklist to be drawn up on the basis of objective safety criteria, which would be valid throughout the union. the most satisfactory solution for the user is to publish only one community blacklist, supplied by the member states, but covering the whole of the union's airspace without distinguishing the state which initiated the measure. in order for this list of banned companies to apply throughout the union - as you have said, commissioner - the criteria on the basis of which it will be drawn up must be drawn up at community level. these common criteria, based on objective safety considerations, would be defined by the commission, assisted by a committee of experts from the member states. every airline on the blacklist will be banned from flying throughout the union because it is unthinkable to declare a company to be deficient and let it carry passengers. the same level of security must be guaranteed to european citizens, regardless of the community airport from which they depart. the proposed mechanism would strengthen the coordination of civil aviation authorities in the member states while leaving the initiative for safety measures to the member states. the other part of the report provides for the obligation to inform passengers of the identity of the operating air carrier and gives them rights in certain specific cases. the european aviation safety agency (easa) should be given a leading role in the monitoring of compliance with international and community aviation safety standards by issuing a safety certificate for third country airlines. that is why the european commission must propose an extension of the agency's powers and i was pleased to hear jacques barrot announce that this proposal would be tabled in the autumn. easa should also be able to control the different national civil aviation authorities, to carry out audits and even to manage a european database which would include the record of all controls carried out by member states on aircraft. finally, i am pleased that the vote on this report in plenary, originally scheduled for january, was moved forward to november, which will allow, if there is agreement at first reading, i hope, for the regulation to be adopted by the transport council on 5 december, that is to say before the end of the year.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, when the decision was taken to liberalize air transport, many of us foresaw what is unfortunately happening today: the deterioration of safety and the emergence of risky companies, a kind of equivalent of the flags of convenience system in maritime transport. in any case, it is urgent to impose rules and this is not, unfortunately, the first time that our parliament has demanded this. but the member states have often remained deaf. i would like to stress four requirements. the first is the introduction of rules prohibiting dangerous aircraft and airlines, and even the introduction of prior authorization to take off and land in the territory of the european union. the second requirement is that the number and quality of controls be increased. the third is the obligation to provide information and transparency to users. the fourth and final point, which i would like the commission to take up, is the improvement of the protection of employees who oppose risky practices by their companies, with the right of withdrawal. it took many tragedies for the member states to publish blacklists. i think everyone here agrees that they must be european and that whenever a member state decides to ban an airline, the other member states can automatically apply the same ban. but i think we must go further and require a positive authorization principle which allows the european union, in particular with the aviation safety agency, to establish whether or not the airline and the aircraft used comply with our safety rules. i stress this point because many circumvention procedures are possible by changing the name and social status, even when blacklists are drawn up. i would also like to stress the need to involve the member states, since it is often parliament and the commission that have tried to improve the situation. may the unacceptable and horrible tragedies we have witnessed serve as a lesson to the governments of our various countries.
madam president, as we approach the development phase of this remarkable programme and its deployment phase, which is to create the whole of the space and ground infrastructure, it seems to us that two points remain unclear. through the galileo programme and in line with the lisbon strategy, europe is in the process of creating the world's first satellite positioning infrastructure. this will give it economic and strategic autonomy over the american gps system. this autonomy, however, does not seem to be perfect, since it reveals a flaw in political autonomy. the aim of this project is to secure personal data and make information reliable, but it is purely civil in nature, while respecting national sovereignty and the strict application of the principle of subsidiarity. it leaves europe dependent on the us military system for defence applications and there is no real guarantee of continuity of service in cases of crisis such as the gulf war. on the other hand, the risks posed by technology transfers via international cooperation outside europe do not seem to be taken into account. in the case of china, the financial partner of the galileo project, we cannot ignore its political origins and potentially dangerous military interests, an area where space technology is also used for missiles. the same applies to commercial practices which are sometimes reprehensible or even incompatible with european interests. we are asking the commission to come forward with a proposal to guarantee the independence and scope of action of this programme in order to make europe truly independent and to limit or even avoid the risks of technology transfer in cases which are considered potentially dangerous.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs barsi-pataky on her report and in particular on her proposal to provide the galileo programme with an ambitious community budget, in line with what commissioner jacques barrot has advocated. i believe that a budget of €1 billion for 2007-2013 is justified for three main reasons. first, the nature of the challenges: through this programme it is nothing more or less than a question of achieving europe's space independence while offering a multitude of new services to professionals and individuals. secondly, with galileo the union is fully committed to financing future investments. thirdly, this strong budgetary commitment is justified by the expected return on investment: according to the various estimates galileo is moving towards exceptional profitability with an expected cost-benefit ratio of 4,6. for all these reasons, the union must make an ambitious commitment to this programme and i hope that the council and in particular the british presidency, which spoke a great deal a few months ago about the value of future spending, will do so. as it is very late, i will not go into all the real and serious advantages which the city of toulouse has in hosting the headquarters of the galileo concession.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. i am pleased that our committee unanimously supported this project. he's imposed himself on us for: - for technological reasons, this project is innovative and improves the guarantee of services offered by the american gps. - economic reasons: the sector needs to maintain a relevant level of activity. there will be many direct and indirect jobs. - strategic reasons. galileo is promoting the autonomy of defence systems. - political reasons, because the project keeps the union in its vocation. the union is simply creating the conditions for the emergence of new activities. the amendment requiring the concessionaire to reimburse the investments illustrates this attitude. the autonomy of the nations is strengthened. the prs goes in that direction and gives every nation access to technology that is unaffordable on its own. this cooperation is open to countries outside the union. in conclusion, this project shows that genuine cooperation does not need a constitution. this is a good project, and we hope that it will be completed quickly in budgetary terms.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the controversy which this directive has provoked is both disproportionate and reveals, it is true, two different approaches to the policy which the union must pursue in the field of the protection of workers' rights. i believe, mr mann, that protecting the health of workers does not compromise employment. as mr őry has pointed out, this proposal for a directive is simply the fourth part of a legislative package on which parliament and the council have already taken a decision and which aims to protect the health and safety of workers against the risks related to exposure to physical agents. as you know, we have already adopted provisions on vibration, noise, electromagnetic fields. in this case, we have to distinguish between radiation of artificial origin and radiation of natural origin. but at the same time there is a dark spot - i apologize for using this formula - in your interventions, in your reasoning, concerning health and in particular public health policy: you do not distinguish between the risk to which a person, in this case a worker, is exposed because of natural radiation and the risk to which he is exposed because of artificial radiation. even if the provisions proposed in the common position do take account of the difference between being in front of a machine and being exposed to solar radiation because you are working outdoors, we must have a specific policy on this subject, except that, in the end, what the community has done under article 137 of the single act is enough, that is to say, to ensure that health and safety measures are defined for all workers in the european union at their workplace. that would be giving up. we can't do that, there's a new risk, there's data that we can't ignore, data from the world health organization, from our national health agencies: the number of sun-related cancers is increasing. it increases particularly in occupations where there is sun exposure, with the consequence that one cannot simply invoke leisure or holidays, for example, as a variable. in the building and public works, in tourism, there is sun exposure. the police officers in charge of security are also very often outside. the list of occupations concerned could be extended considerably. so we have a responsibility, and the proposal that is being made is reasonable because it takes into account the need for companies to be able to meet this type of obligation at reduced costs. it is about information, training, evaluation, prevention. it is indeed a matter of imposing obligations on employers because the worker is still dependent on his employer. some say that the proposal is too precise, that the community and the european union will make a fool of themselves. i have noticed that in economic matters legislation is never too specific. when it comes to financial regulations, when it comes to the internal market, when it comes to the banking sector, we know how to vote on specific standards. well, when it comes to people's health, i think we also need to be able to be precise. we do not agree with the view that european standards and rules must be binding in the economic field, but that when it comes to social rights and the protection of workers' health, subsidiarity and opt-out must be systematically invoked. we therefore hope that the content of this legislation will not be distorted and that all workers in the union will be offered information and prevention standards which will be able to combat the development of these skin cancers.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 'television without frontiers' directive is undoubtedly one of the european union's successes. in 1989, when the first text was adopted, there were only about 50 television channels in europe. today, there are 50 times as many. the audiovisual landscape has been transformed by satellite, cable, digital, the internet and mobile phones. new media, new modes of dissemination and new services have emerged. a revision and extension of the directive is therefore essential and urgent. the commissioner has announced that she will present these proposals to us in the autumn. i take this opportunity to congratulate her on her commitment to european television and to thank her for the attention she has paid to the professionals in the sector. i would ask him to pay attention to the three parts of this report, to our reflections on the application of articles 4 and 5, to the ways in which we propose to revise the directive and to the important problem of media concentration. the results of articles 4 and 5 are good and these provisions must be maintained. these are the minimum standards which satisfy the majority and should not be revised downwards, even if pressure is mounting to reduce requirements. however, we can propose improvements, for example on the definition of the concepts of 'independent producer' and 'work', or on the establishment of a more uniform control grid for the results of the member states. the directive is not easy to revise. the right balance must be found so that the audiovisual sector does not become a purely commercial sector to the detriment of cultural diversity. at the same time, however, we must not hinder the development of a sector which is undergoing a permanent technological revolution and which is very important for our industries and jobs. the directive sets standards which are already minimal and have not always prevented a certain commercial and stupid drift in some member states. unfortunately, the many interviews i have had show that the general mood is for lower standards, under the combined pressure of industry and advertising, but also of some member states. that is why i and my colleagues are asking that the legal basis chosen should allow this matter to be dealt with by the committee on culture and education. without wishing to open hostilities, i fear that another committee will approach this matter from a more commercial than a cultural angle. the proposals i am putting forward are not intended to depart from the principles of the current directive, which is largely based on self-regulation and is not overly normative. it is also consistent with the two previous reports of our institution, including that of my colleague mrs hieronymi. the revision of the directive should reinforce a number of fundamental principles: the free movement of european television programmes, free access to exceptional events, the promotion of european works and recent independent productions, the protection of minors and public order, consumer protection through the identification of content providers and the transparency of advertising and the right of reply. it also promotes the circulation of national works in each country of the union. we produce a lot. we have too little trade between europeans. we must remedy this deficiency. we must also encourage european content on television. this can of course be encouraged in the context of the mediaplus programme. i would also like to see a discussion of the definition of what constitutes a work. the 'television without frontiers' directive shows what it is not. it's not information. she's not advertising. but is it like reality tv? i would prefer - and some professionals would like to see - a positive definition. i could also emphasize the role of public services. they must be able to carry out their mission. how can they be helped? i regret that my colleagues did not follow my proposal for a european charter for public audiovisual services. i would also like to ask the commission to find ways of protecting the diversity of television ownership and preventing excessive concentration of media. the plurality of the media is essential in a democracy, since the union repeats that it cannot legislate in this area, it must at least help the member states to establish more binding rules. next week, on tuesday the 13th, we are holding a symposium on this important subject in manchester. since mrs reding is listening, i would like her to tell us what the commission is planning to do at this stage of the work, particularly on the issues of advertising, the scope of the directive, the arrangements for supporting the production of european and independent works and the organisation of the regulation. what about the adaptation of the principle of the country of origin, media pluralism?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to stress the special and important place of the 'television without frontiers' directive in the construction of europe. through its impact, it creates a strong and visible link between all european citizens; it remains one of the essential factors in intercultural dialogue and contributes to developing our european identity. the report drawn up by mr weber refers not only to the application of articles 4 and 5, but also to issues such as the revision of the directive itself or media pluralism. in my amendments i have sought to encourage support for the uniqueness of europe, so that cultural diversity, freedom, pluralism and the independence of the media remain the essential components of the european audiovisual model. i have also been committed to giving priority to methods of qualitative analysis of cultural content in the face of the offensive of private and commercial production groups on european markets. i therefore believe that it is essential to develop the european uniqueness of content by establishing a link with the means of financing. this specific point did not need to be developed in this report but it will certainly remain a primary objective in the general revision of the directive. nothing can be truly effective unless the states commit themselves to making the financing of public television sustainable and to justifying the use of the funds before the european union. of course, it is impossible to talk about the revision of this directive without addressing the sensitive issue of advertising. as regards the latter, i felt that it would be necessary to define clearly its content and regulation, particularly for alcohol advertising which has a harmful impact on children and vulnerable people. it would even seem to me that it is essential to extend the directive to all audiovisual services made available to the public. i therefore hope that the new directive will provide for legislation which actually implements the penalties provided for in the area of quotas and advertising. in conclusion, i therefore propose that you vote in favour of the very good report proposed by our colleague, mr henri weber.
in writing. the french textile industry is being sacrificed on the altar of euro-globalism. in my region of nord pas de calais, industries are constantly losing jobs. in 2004, the number of jobs in the textile sector fell by 13%, while imports from outside the eu exploded. this report does not propose anything new to save our jobs. on the contrary, the solutions advocated in this summit of europeanist phraseology are unheard of, naive and schizophrenic. we are criticizing american protectionism, we want to suggest social measures, and at point 44 we propose to help the maghreb and turkey! the ultra-liberal approach of the extremists of globalism is destroying our economy and our know-how, while in asia piracy and counterfeiting are monstrous phenomena, while the chinese factory, this "market socialist" state, is engaged in unfair competition with its labour camps and an underpaid workforce. in the midst of the economic war, bilateral agreements and the wto are not protecting us at all. we want to produce french in france with french people. we want protection and national preference in france. we want protection and community preference in europe.
in writing. this report is emblematic of the widespread autism affecting the european elites and economic and political intelligentsia. the textile and clothing industry in the union is of great importance for the economy and regional planning. the sector is experiencing serious difficulties due to global deregulation, with relocations, numerous bankruptcies and consequent job losses. what does europe propose to do to defend and protect this sector? a leap forward on the dead end of world liberalism ! the americans have just shown us that without borders, no protection is possible. they did not wait to plunge thousands of households into distress and write yet another useless report before acting. they acted and reacted quickly and well as it was their duty to do to safeguard their interests first. after the vote on 29 may, this report and the ideology behind it is an insult to all those who have lost or are about to lose their jobs. it is contrary to the principle of community preference and is organising the liquidation of this sector in the medium term.
in writing. i abstained on this report which does not set out an offensive strategy to respond to the gravity of the situation. i also want to approve the backsliding of the committee which met yesterday with the chinese government. it is unacceptable to derogate from the agreement on new quotas which had just been signed in july and had been applied since 2005. the commitments made must be respected and the policy of de facto fulfilment undertaken by the large distributors cannot be endorsed, thereby penalising thousands of jobs. the commission has been slow to initiate the import controls necessary to trigger the safeguard clauses provided for in the wto, and has not mobilised to impose minimum social and environmental rules in world trade. today, it refuses to propose a textile plan that is up to the challenge: insufficient research and innovation funding, no significant support for technological and social conversion or training, no revival of the euro-mediterranean area with common customs duties. millions of jobs and a promising industrial sector are being sacrificed by a careless policy of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to comment on two points, and i agree with anne jensen on this. as the permanent rapporteur for the committee on budgets for the structural funds, i would like to draw your attention to the reduction, for several consecutive years, of the amount allocated to payment appropriations under heading 2 for structural operations. in a context of crisis of confidence in a europe which would no longer be able to provide its citizens with a renewed economic model, a competitive model, a model capable of meeting the great challenges of the 21st century, the heads of state and government considered it appropriate to reduce by eur 150 million the amount of payment appropriations proposed by the commission. we know that these investment expenditures, which are implemented by the structural funds, are, as we have said many times, a major challenge for our community economy. europe needs more than ever to invest in infrastructure to maintain its competitiveness and jobs, both in the new member states and in the other member states. this reduction of eur 150 million therefore contradicts the findings of our assembly in the context of the new challenges we are facing. i would also like to draw your attention to the major environmental risk that the draft budget poses to our continent, because the budget of all the agencies is maintained at its previous level, in particular that of the european maritime safety agency which was given, following the disasters of the erika and the prestige, the extremely important task of implementing better monitoring of discharges at sea and chartering pollution control vessels in the event of an accident off our coasts. the council has inexplicably proposed to reduce from 29 to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i just wanted to say that i think this impromptu meeting, which is unusual in the budgetary procedure, is strange and, in my view, has little meaning. i also wanted to express, on behalf of the committee on economic affairs, our disappointment at the deep cuts made in programmes which are so dear to parliament, such as prince on information for citizens, and especially at the cuts made in the lines which are in favour of new resources for smes. finally, to have a valid european policy, the commission must also be given the necessary staffing. that is what we do not find in the draft budget which has been put before us and i would like to express our disappointment on behalf of my committee.
madam president, the hague programme states that in the area of justice and home affairs our first priority is to create policies in their own right to promote fundamental rights for all and policies to strengthen citizenship. we see that the eu budget continues to give priority to the strengthening of repressive policies. we want to strike the right balance between freedom and security. the budget must also be balanced and we would like to see action instead of mere speeches. it is not enough for our leaders to say that they want to promote citizenship and equal opportunities. we must take action and give ourselves the means to carry out this policy. the european union has a great challenge to face: equal opportunities for all. we know that all violence is rooted in injustice and we do well to give ourselves the means to fight injustice.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking to you today about the amending budget we have been waiting for for so long. it concerns the actions we have committed ourselves to financing to support the rehabilitation of the countries so badly affected by the tsunami in december 2004. like you, i must deplore the council's attitude. it has taken the budgetary authority all this time to get the promised funds released. in january, in december itself, the union promised 350 million euros. nine months later, we will have barely managed to give away 170 million in 2005. on 27 april, the commission proposed a preliminary draft budget and called for the necessary eur 98 million to be mobilised from the flexibility instrument. the council did not want to hear about this mobilization. you know, it's terrible, this council has a slogan that is "don't touch my euros!". it is terrible to have a budgetary authority which takes on responsibilities and commitments but refuses to carry them out. the commission has therefore had to negotiate hard in parliament over the past few months to obtain the release of eur 15 million from the flexibility fund. that is why we had to take 60 million redeployed to other humanitarian actions in order to achieve a balance and find the 170 million euros. i must say that this is a scandal for us, because no poor country has become rich, on the contrary, poverty is growing in all these countries. there's 70 million in the emergency reserve. hopefully we won't need it by the end of the year. of course, we support this agreement because it is urgent for the people and citizens affected by the tsunami. but what a mockery! gentlemen of the council, i ask you two things: first, do not make any more promises since you are never able to keep them. secondly, i must say that you have alerted us, but what is the council's commitment worth in terms of the financial perspective? i turn to reimer böge and say: let us take this event, this difficulty, into account when negotiating the next financial perspective. even when the council has taken note of this, it does not keep its word and its commitments. yes, the european union is very sick. the citizens are aware of this, but the fault lies in general with the member states who forget that we must build the european union together, for the citizens of europe, but also for the sake of europe's place and generosity, because we have a duty to all the countries of the world, and more particularly to the people affected by the tsunami.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mrs de sarnez for her report and for the work she has done. it is not easy, in fact, to bring together a whole parliament around a single text, with the different visions, ideologies and cultures that are represented therein, on issues directly related to our society and to the very essence of our society. it is already wonderful that mrs de sarnez has succeeded in obtaining a consensus first in parliament and then among the institutions on the objectives which have been put forward by the commission. as you will appreciate when i explain the commission's position on this report, the majority of the amendments are acceptable to us fully or in principle. before i discuss the details, however, i would like to hear members' views on this report. basically, i can say the following: the spirit of better regulation is fundamental to what we have to do. that is why we must strive to be as succinct as possible in legal texts and let the stakeholders, as well as the member states, deal with the details of their implementation. as a commissioner, i have tried to ensure that every level of our society takes its responsibilities seriously. that also includes, for example, our media industries. a number of parliament's amendments are not acceptable to the commission in their current form, because they are too detailed or too prescriptive, or because of their substance. however, this debate might change my mind, so i am looking forward to hearing members' input into this very important social issue. our work is essential. we are not politicians for the sake of it; we make policies in order for our societies to be better off. when i speak about our societies, i mean the diverse cultures of the 25 member states, which have to be brought together in one high-level european policy. i know parliament is capable of that. that is why i shall listen to how parliament wants the commission to present its basic proposal to the council. i have great confidence in what parliament, in its wisdom, is going to say. afterwards i shall try to draw the appropriate conclusions from the proposals that have been made. i shall listen with great interest when mrs de sarnez sets out parliament's position.
the rapporteur. mr president, the first aim of this recommendation is the protection of minors on the internet. the internet is a great tool, without borders, open to all, and which makes available to everyone a wealth of knowledge, documentation and a capacity for exchanging information that has never been equalled in the history of our humanity. in a few short years, the internet has changed the face of the world. but it is the duty of the legislator to prevent this formidable communication tool from becoming a harmful, even dangerous, tool, especially for minors who are using it more and more frequently. in fact, young children today spend more time in front of the computer than in front of the tv. they don't know it, but they're not always safe on the net. they are faced with new dangers that can cause deep and irreversible trauma. i would like to give some figures on this situation, which is becoming increasingly worrying. more than one in three children has unwittingly come across violent, pornographic or pedophilic images on the internet. there are currently about 260 million pornographic web pages and 470 pedophile web sites on the web. it's been estimated that there are over 1.5 million images identified on the net of children, very young children, being sexually exploited or abused. between 2003 and 2004, child pornography on the internet increased by 70 percent. an average of 30 seconds is the time it takes for a teenager to be sexually assaulted by a predator - an adult posing as a teenager just to get the teenager's picture, address, and a date. the pedophile trade generates $20 billion a year worldwide. in france alone, it represents a turnover of 50 million euros a year. in view of this, we must not, we cannot, remain inactive. it's time to protect children and the most vulnerable from all harmful content, legal or illegal. it's time to hold all actors accountable for the reality of the internet. the need is all the greater now that new technologies are ubiquitous, most often freely accessible in schools, homes, internet cafes and, in the future, on mobile phones. these are new ways of giving young people a way out of the control of the authorities. today, self-regulation is no longer enough. we must go further and call on all actors to take responsibility, politicians, industry and educators. responsibility for policy, first. it is up to governments and education ministers to implement specific internet education programmes for all children, teachers and parents. they also have to organise information campaigns to finally alert public opinion to the dangers of the internet. they also need to extend the use of telephone hotlines to enable harmful content to be reported and to encourage the establishment of a european green number accessible to all. finally, we propose that the commission should consider the creation of a .kid domain name exclusively for children's content. industrial responsibility, then. the existence of charters, codes of conduct and quality procedures is no longer sufficient. it's time for web hosts to offer easy-to-use parenting software, subscriptions to access services specifically for children with automatic filtering at the source. it is also time for creators and producers to make an effort to describe their sites so that they can be classified. the responsibility of educators, that is to say, parents and teachers. children are exposed to information and images on the internet at an increasingly early age. only an educational approach, including in school curricula, will allow better use of the internet. this of course requires training and information for teachers, but also for parents. that is the essence of our proposals. but this recommendation also aims to allow the use of a right of reply in all online media. this right of reply already exists satisfactorily for print and audiovisual media, but not for online media. at present, in most member states, there is no provision for this. it is therefore appropriate to establish the minimum principles at european level for the exercise of this right of reply for all new electronic means of communication. this recommendation will, with the support of our parliament, which i thank for the quality of its work, improve the use of the internet and will, i hope, help to restore confidence. europe is now facing a serious crisis, a crisis of its institutions, its functioning, its budget, its identity and its values. but i want to make a vow that at least when it comes to our children's future, we can regain the ability to act and bring about the changes that are necessary to protect them. it's the least we can do.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am very pleased to be able to present to you this evening the commission's proposal for a regulation on paediatric medicinal products. it is a very important proposal which will improve the health of children in europe and will avoid suffering in many families because of children who have to die prematurely. at present, more than 50% of medicines used in children in the european union are not tested on children or approved for children. this means that we can't always be sure that these drugs are effective or safe. that is a risk that i think none of us are prepared to take any longer. the commission proposal directly addresses this aspect of public health. it will stimulate high-quality research and achieve the development and authorisation of high-quality, high-safety and high-efficacy paediatric medicines. the proposal not only addresses this important aspect of public health, but also aims to stimulate innovation and competition and contribute to growth and employment in the european union. i would like to thank and congratulate mrs grossetête, the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, for her work and efforts in completing this report. you have done a wonderful job! i would also like to thank mrs toia, the rapporteur for the committee on industry, and all the members of both committees for their support of the proposal. i would like to come straight to the specific point which i know has been the subject of very intense debate in parliament. i am referring to the commission's proposal for a six-month extension of the supplementary protection certificate for the products in question. this is one of the most fundamental provisions of our proposal. without this provision, the proposal is of little value. let me first explain why we prefer a fixed extension of the supplementary protection certificate to a variable extension. a fixed extension is easy to use and predictable. it creates a low administrative burden and is compatible with existing patent law. in contrast, a variable extension of the supplementary protection certificate would be contrary to the principles of patent law and would not promote innovation. such a provision would be impracticable in practice, since it would require a precise economic analysis of each medicinal product. i also doubt the justice of a variable solution. a solution like that is based on sales figures. we should remember one thing: the success of a drug does not tell us anything about the innovation that a drug represents; it also does not say what research costs have been incurred. i would like to make it clear that the commission is very firm on this point and i do not think that the commission sees any possibility of compromise here. the commission has already proposed a six-month extension of the supplementary protection certificate. on the basis of our impact assessment, which we have carried out very thoroughly, we believe that this period ensures that the objectives of the proposal are proportionate to the costs and benefits to public health, industry and public budgets in health. the commission can in principle support the amendment which calls for a review of the paediatric regulation so that the consequences, and above all the financial impact, of bonuses and incentives can be properly assessed. we need to ensure that any review also takes into account the intended public health benefits of this regulation. finally, the financial impact of the regulation should be assessed only when sufficient data are available. i have not, for obvious reasons, commented on every amendment. the commission's position on all the proposed amendments has, however, been forwarded to parliament's services. the commission's position is set out in the annex. the proposal for a regulation on paediatric medicines is an important proposal for children's health, for innovation and for competitiveness. i am sure that today's debate will show that we are on the right track here. i would like to conclude by saying with all the urgency that we are talking about the welfare and health of children who have not been helped so far. this is more important than the interests of any pharmaceutical industry lobby groups!
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have been waiting for this moment for a long time, because for several years our parliament has been calling for this specific european regulation in favour of paediatric medicines. commissioner, you have explained it very well: it seems inconceivable that our children today cannot have access to a therapy adapted to their needs. it is a reality. in 2005, a very large number of medicines that were given to children were not developed for them. often the products used for the youngest are the same as those prescribed for adults. use only in decreasing doses. however, the metabolism of a child differs from that of an adult. children therefore need a specific form of medication that is adapted not only to make it better tolerated but also to make it more effective and safer. that is the subject of this regulation and i thank all the members who have taken part in it. my report makes great progress and is supported by many members. the aim of the proposals is to make the work of the paediatric committee, which will be set up within the european medicines agency, more readable, to prevent additional clinical trials being carried out on children when they are not necessary, to promote the transparency of devices, to reduce administrative delays, to strengthen pharmacovigilance, to introduce a requirement for paediatric research for each new medicinal product for adults, provided that this system does not delay the marketing of the innovative medicinal product, to ask the paediatric committee to draw up an inventory of paediatric needs, and finally to create a european research fund to finance studies on medicinal products which no longer have intellectual protection but which could be very useful for children. however, the central point of this text is still the one related to inducement. i've been working on this a lot. i have listened to a lot and, after discussing it with all of you, i think that the proposal for a fixed incentive, namely a six-month extension of the supplementary protection certificate, is the best possible solution. this is the most fair and pragmatic timeframe we can find. i said six months, not five. the united states has a recognized system with a six-month delay. why should europe not do the same? i admit that i do not understand this amendment suggested by mr maaten very well. mr maaten, we always ask the european parliament to look for the best solutions through benchmarking. well, the united states has a good practice in this; since they got that regulation, about 100 pediatric drugs have benefited american children. why should we not be able to give the same support to pharmaceutical research in europe? i feel that this is a carpet salesman's discussion between us, and i regret it, because it is a public health issue for children. i am sorry, mr maaten, that we cannot agree on this six-month deadline. research is by definition random and if the european union wants, as you all want, to develop this strategic sector, we cannot create a watered-down system or introduce vague measures. some colleagues have put forward a proposal based on a proportional reward. but this system is too restrictive. i asked my colleagues some important questions, public health questions. i am still waiting for the replies of those who advocate this proportionality. in fact, i wonder why the commission has been silent for so long, as we have been waiting for information which has never come from the authors of these amendments. this is about saving children's lives, not keeping a book. proportionality puts the number of products sold in front of the column "lives saved". under the proportional system, three months plus three months, or four plus four, the second part would be granted according to whether or not a sales volume or turnover was achieved. the danger of this system, in my view, is that we are moving from a health logic to a market logic. why would you do that? there is no european price for the drug. each member state sets this price and, as we know, there are very wide variations. with the logic of sales revenue, the laboratories will take their calculators, choose countries based on the prices they charge and not on health needs. secondly, who will be able to verify sales figures? some colleagues suggested the use of an independent audit, but did not specify the procedures to be followed. there is no evaluation, no cost, no additional time involved in this bureaucratic procedure, and no possible recourse in case of conflict. the european medicines agency itself tells us that this system is unrealistic, that it cannot afford it. so what's the advantage of this proposal? the proportional system is not good, it is not applicable. the quotation i am proposing is not based on the drug itself but on studies conducted under the authority of the paediatric committee. i ask you to evaluate this condition carefully. as regards the impact of this measure on the public health budgets of our states, a study presented to the council estimates that with six fixed months, the increase in health expenditure would be small, between 0.7 and 1%. finally, i wanted to include in the amendments a revision clause on incentives. the commission will have to take stock of the situation in six years' time, stating precisely under what conditions the six months were granted, with what costs and what benefits. we have the opportunity to turn this text from speeches into action. let us stop being philosophers and be pragmatic. let's not make a mistake. the failure to establish a stable framework for promoting research in europe is to favour american and asian industry. this would be a political, scientific and health hazard. what is europe for? this regulation can demonstrate to our fellow citizens how useful it is. this is a matter which affects everyone and which can only be resolved at community level. no member state can support research policy in the pharmaceutical industry on its own. your vote will be decisive. if we say yes to a six-month fixed incentive, our children will soon be able to benefit from appropriate and safe medicines thanks to the european union.
we have wanted this text, we have been waiting for it for a long time and we are all very pleased to know that it will soon allow children to be better cared for. but we must be demanding. we will have the opportunity tomorrow to improve this draft regulation so that it best serves children and public health, and we will improve it if we vote for the amendments which guide the research and marketing of medicines with greater added value, offering real therapeutic benefit; how can the aim of limiting clinical trials on children be achieved without limiting the number of medicines that will be placed on the market? if the added value of the medicinal product were taken into account, it would avoid unnecessary trials on children. tomorrow we can also improve the text by voting on amendments which propose greater transparency of pharmacovigilance data and their public access. the financial question is also important for the balance of our social security systems and the guarantee of access to health care for all. it is upstream, when it comes to finding the right financial incentive for the pharmaceutical industries to take a greater interest in paediatric medicines. it is for all european citizens, because it is public money that indirectly finances these financial incentives in the form of an extension of commercial exclusivity. that is why, in view of the results of the impact studies, in view of the enormous gaps between 1 and 4 million euros, it seems to me that we should at least be able to offer the industries a two-tier system: a fixed incentive of three months and a three-month extension depending on the level of profit generated by the marketed medicine. we all want what's best for the children as soon as possible. but no hypocrisy. those who spoke of urgency did not want to support the proposal to reduce the time between the marketing authorization, which is two years, and the marketing. that is why we will have further meetings and we will really see what we can do for the health of european children.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, no one here underestimates the seriousness of the terrorist challenge, no one has forgotten or trivialised the terrifying and outrageous images of new york, bali, casablanca, madrid, london, sharm el-sheikh. the need for greater police and judicial cooperation to dismantle these criminal networks is well known. on all these points we can agree, the commission, the council and parliament, including our group of course. this consensus ends where the security and freedom-killing machinery begins. i'll get back to you in a moment. i would add that our disagreement also concerns the kind of western good conscience that is too often displayed and which blinds us to the terrible flaws in our own systems. i'll tell you about it. finally, we cannot follow those who refuse to give a clear-eyed thought to the roots of the scourge we are fighting. the safety and freedom-killing gear first. in the name of fighting terrorism, everything would be allowed in a way. we have had a further illustration of this danger in the wake of the tragedy in london. so the shoot to kill policy recommended by the international association of chiefs of police and adopted by some member states has led to the worst this summer: the death of an innocent man. we believe that this is a method that has no place in a state governed by the rule of law, whatever the circumstances. the end must not justify the means. that is why the notion of a war on terrorism seems so dangerous to us. it is in this spirit that we will be looking very carefully at the content of the new draft directive on data retention. parliament's position on this has been clear and must be respected. the european motto must not become, in effect, 'surveil, suspect, repress'. my colleague, mr catania, will develop this point in the debate. i then mentioned the constant reference to our values or to our western values. it leads, whether we like it or not, to the idea of a world shared between them and us, with us as the reference and them as the source of the problems. everyone here still remembers the regrettable exit of mr berlusconi after the attack on the world trade center. we should, he said, be aware of the superiority of our civilization. commissioner frattini has just used a different language, and that is a good thing, because western-centricity blinds us to the injustices, oppressions and humiliations perpetrated in the name of the west throughout the world, from jenin to abu ghraib or falluja, or from grozny to guantánamo. and then suddenly, this blindness comes back to us like a boomerang. this brings me to our third disagreement, particularly with the british presidency, which refuses to hear anyone stress the increasingly obvious truth that the war in iraq, which is officially justified in the name of fighting terrorism, is in fact producing terrorists. for having said it bluntly, even the royal institute for international affairs itself has drawn this unflattering line from mr jack straw, and i quote: 'it is no longer the time to make excuses for terrorists'. if denouncing this war is to excuse terrorists, then mr straw must remember that he is dealing with such accomplices of terrorism right down to the council. the spanish counterpart, mr moratinos, who is well acquainted with the middle east, said after the madrid attacks: 'the strategy pursued by the american administration and other western countries has failed miserably.' mr prodi himself, who has become more lucid since he left the commission, told the stampa last year, in relation to the iraq conflict: 'the terrorism which was to be stopped by this war is infinitely more powerful today.' it is all these aspects - respect for freedoms, dialogue between cultures, rejection of war - that we must be able to discuss without taboos and draw the right conclusions. then the just fight against terrorism will bring us all together and take a big step forward. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president of the parliament and mr president of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, you have just stressed the need to respond to the threat of terrorism while protecting the rights of citizens, and whatever the views of europe, i believe that the time has come in the last four months to show that the executive and the legislature will move forward together and absolutely not in any other way. it is to this very notion of citizenship and to the ambitious legislative programme you have presented that i would like to apply this perspective. indeed, allow me to take a detour. a french philosopher, jean-jacques rousseau, said something that is a cruel update. in the modern constitutional state, he said, a citizen is one who, while being the recipient of a right, can at the same time consider himself the author of that right; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. is that the case for the european citizen at this painful and historic moment, and indeed we shall not forget the courage of your people, of your fellow citizens, mr president clarke, nor, of course, the sense of your government's reaction? does the citizen feel that he is the recipient and the author of this right? is this the case for us as members of parliament when we are presented with texts on which we naturally have to decide within the time limits imposed and when we adopt amendments which will not even be in the files of the ministers during their deliberations? this really has to stop. i have my doubts and i can only regret the lack of adequate responses from the council to the recommendations made to it at the hague meeting and during the evaluation of the tampere programme. it is not surprising, therefore, that, however much we are willing to do to make progress, parliament should insist that its deliberations be taken seriously and its prerogatives respected, especially when the treaty itself recognizes the need for codecision. in the case of data protection and the safety of citizens, which is of concern to all of us, there is a question of implementing the provisions of both the treaty establishing the european community and the treaty on european union. so, in conclusion, can we expect the presidency to take the european parliament's position seriously and to start serious negotiations as soon as it wants to and within a very short time? finally, i would like to say to the high commissioner that the commission has declared itself ready to meet parliament's expectations and is preparing appropriate proposals which arouse our interest and give cause for our expectations.
mr president, there is a growing and very worrying number of situations around the world in which states use the argument of the fight against terrorism to impose a policy of repression on other groups, not terrorists, or to violate the most fundamental rights of suspected terrorists. there are many examples in pakistan, china, morocco, saudi arabia, tunisia, yemen, kenya and many other countries, and in many cases, as the un rapporteur, mrs jilani, has pointed out, human rights defenders are among the first victims of the fight against terrorism. in tunisia, for example, the government passed an anti-terrorism law in 2003, a law purporting to support international efforts to combat terrorism, which in fact infringes on the basic rights of citizens, the peaceful activities of civil society, trade unions and political parties. as regards the united states, we know of the abuses committed in guantanamo bay and abu ghraib, where hundreds of non-us citizens are held indefinitely without being prosecuted and without any prospect of trial. we cannot ignore the very serious allegations, particularly in the united states, reported by international ngos such as amnesty, that a number of individuals arrested in connection with the war on terror are being held in unknown locations. they are backed up by official reports of the situation of ghost prisoners, held in secret prisons and transferred from one place to another to hide them from the attention of the international committee of the red cross. equally serious are the accusations made by ngos such as human rights watch against the countries of the european union - the netherlands, the united kingdom, germany, austria, sweden - which do not hesitate to send alleged terrorists back to countries such as syria, egypt or uzbekistan, where the risk of torture and ill-treatment is very high. such practices are contrary to international human rights standards, in particular the principle of non-refoulement. the member states of the union, as we see, are not left behind. there is also cause for concern about a draft recommendation from the european commission to the member states on non-profit associations, mr frattini, which states in its introduction, i quote: 'there is evidence that non-profit organizations have been exploited for the financing of terrorism and other criminal activities.' such a generalization, such a lack of nuance in a commission document is particularly unforgivable and worrying.
mr president-in-office, commissioner, it is obviously necessary to rethink our fight against terrorism. we must eradicate terrorism from its roots, punish the perpetrators severely and pursue the leaders relentlessly, we agree. but it is essential that we stop with the "orthopedic" measures and consider a thoroughgoing treatment and new means of control. and let us repeat that these means of struggle must be in accordance with our legal rules, our rule of law and our democracies. we have raised the question of the abduction of european citizens and residents by the cia on the territory of the european union itself. some member states have initiated legal proceedings to clarify why these citizens may have been abducted and transferred to third countries where they were tortured. the commission acknowledges that this is a violation of fundamental rights but refuses to address this issue. the european union has a duty to protect the fundamental rights of its citizens. what can we say to their legitimate concern? the second point is that the european union must not be left to the mercy of the united states, which is the only country in the world that has a policy of combating terrorism. we must find in our societies, but also in the less developed countries, the means to combat exclusion and we must fight against all the injustices in the world. all advanced civilizations have understood that justice and fairness are the most effective ways to fight violence. on the other hand, it is necessary to teach, to educate, to provide critical equipment, to fight blindness when beings are capable of self-destruction, to end their lives when, for example, they have just given life as was the case with one of the london terrorists, we understand that it is absolutely necessary to act upstream. only early and effective integration into our societies can end this mental manipulation. it is necessary to understand that integration must not remain superficial and integration is not assimilation. every citizen of our states must feel truly recognized as a citizen, valued as a person. i repeat, where there is a sense of injustice, there is violence, there is hatred. and if you add to that climate the manipulation and the enslavement of weak minds, then you have terrorists. the range of measures is vast, but it is by activating all the levers that we will win. in conclusion, i would like to return to what you said, mr minister. we support you when you say that we must have deeper cooperation. we can certainly achieve more by sharing our experience, information and resources. we will only succeed at european level, but the european parliament wants to be fully involved, we will work together, so we will move forward.
in writing. i have recently received many letters from professionals in the hotel, catering and building industries expressing their legitimate concerns about a council common position on the exposure of workers to optical radiation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. if it is understandable that the safety of workers exposed, for example in industrial environments, to artificial optical radiation should be improved and better regulated, why should we also be interested in so-called "natural" optical radiation? why would we want to regulate the working conditions of people who are more or less exposed to the sun? these proposals with unverifiable results, besides being ridiculous, obviously promise an increase in constraints, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. against the background of the economic, social and identity crises and the international insecurity that is shaking our countries, this kind of incredible proposal once again demonstrates the inadequacy of the reality of these europeans who want to control everything. that is why i opposed this new gadget which risks "overshadowing" many of our companies by this administrative over-billing and financial suffocation.
in writing. this relationship that starts with a good feeling quickly becomes an unlikely catch-all. the explanatory statement started well, however, and the interest was obviously to consider greater protection of minors against the scourges of pornography, paedophilia, violence in images and content, but also - and this was forgotten - the provocation to use drugs or dangerous behaviour, recruitment and enlistment in fanatical and terrorist companies. the subject was broad enough and our policies unfortunately weak enough to take a more serious look at these very serious facts and try to respond to them in order to protect our children. instead, the report is misleading, scattered and mixes everything and anything, pornography, of course, but also the fight against discrimination, teacher training and finally the right of reply, which we really do not see how it can be of any help to minors. the report's usual technique in this house is to drown the political fish in a sea of good intentions. it makes the text once again more obscure, abstract, ideological and therefore totally ineffective.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the situation in the middle east.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank mr queiró, mr costa and many others in this chamber. it is very important that this subject be dealt with again and again in the european parliament, because otherwise it would lead to a shadow existence in europe, and this cannot continue to be the case. when i think of the european industries which can make an outstanding contribution to growth and employment in europe in the years ahead, the tourism industry comes to mind first. it is perfectly clear that we are dealing with a huge growth market and that the point is that europe can maintain its leading position in this huge growth market of tourism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are increasingly factors affecting tourism, ranging from environmental factors to internal security and transport issues. so what we need is an integrated policy which also looks at all the responsibilities and powers we have, and also looks at how we can use our powers in a way that creates the best possible conditions for a thriving tourism industry in europe. i attach great importance to this subject, as i have said on several occasions. the commission's powers in the field of tourism are not very extensive, but i believe that we can do a great deal to support the efforts of europe's tourist regions within the framework of the european union's policy for growth and employment, the lisbon strategy. i would also like to point out that tourism will change its character considerably in the coming decades, especially in view of the demographic development in europe. it will have to take much greater account of the mobility needs of older citizens, much greater account of the security needs of citizens and much greater account than before of the protection of our cultural and natural heritage. in europe, tourism is not just one industry among many. tourism has become a part of the quality of life for people in europe. we should take that seriously. the commission is very much prepared to cooperate with parliament in any way possible to set in motion positive developments in european tourism. let me conclude with a finding that may seem a little surprising. europe is the world's leading tourist region. europe is the most attractive tourist destination, not only for european tourists but also for tourists from other parts of the world. this is capital we can use to do something with. the commission is prepared to do so.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate mr queiró on his excellent work. i am pleased to note that his report contains the bulk of the recommendations i made to him as rapporteur for regional policy. i do not wish to go back on the difficulties faced by the european tourism sector and the challenges it faces, this has been discussed at length in committee and mr queiró presents a very clear picture of the situation. i also believe that we have all understood the role that tourism can play in terms of growth, job creation and sustainable development. i would like to look ahead and stress three points which i believe are essential. firstly, i think it is essential that the commission and the council relaunch work on the proposal for a directive on reduced vat rates, which would also allow all member states to opt for a reduced vat rate in the hotel and catering sector. the great diversity of situations within the european union itself leads to unfair competition and this is no longer acceptable. secondly, i believe that it is entirely desirable to encourage the development of new forms of sustainable tourism such as agritourism, hiking, cycling, horse riding, etc., and to remove the obstacles faced by certain populations who wish to travel but who have difficulty doing so because of the lack of infrastructure and facilities - mr queiró and mr verheugen have spoken about this. i am thinking in particular of the elderly or the disabled. thirdly, and finally, special attention must be paid to regions which suffer from natural and structural handicaps: i am thinking of the outermost regions and island regions. in these regions we must implement a transversal policy to facilitate and promote these destinations, for which tourism is the main economic activity, and thus promote the development of the essential transport network to these isolated regions. the commission could also improve the coherence of tourism measures with other related community policies. i would like to conclude by recalling that tourism still has no legal basis in community legislation, which i regret. we hope that the progress made in the draft constitution will be resumed very soon.
the agenda calls for question time (b6-0330/2005) and the debate is closed. we are discussing a whole series of issues in the council.
question no 1 by sajjad karim (h-0564/05) subject: amended eu offer on the services sector in the doha negotiations - mobility of natural persons the revised eu offer for the services sector in the doha negotiations provides for additional possibilities for the movement of 'highly qualified natural persons' or 'service providers', which would allow third-country nationals to travel to the eu to provide services for a limited period of time. can the council give a more precise definition of the terms 'highly qualified natural persons' or 'service providers'? how does the council assess the main impact this initiative could have on the professional sectors in developing and least developed countries?
i am also very pleased to have mr alexander here. i just want to point out to him that we're not in westminster. can he wait for someone to give him the floor, for the time to be made for all to interpret? it's not exactly question time. perhaps it will come when we all have the same language in the european union, but for now, everyone must have time to hear your answers and the questions that are being asked. mr rübig had a supplementary question.
the big question about the common language would be what language it would be. let's avoid this debate for now. mr. martin had a follow-up question.
question no 2 by sarah ludford, replaced by bill newton-dunn (h-0566/05) subject: data protection does the uk government strongly advocate the need for the eu to establish a data protection framework for the third pillar in order to protect the privacy of individuals, for example by introducing targeted restrictions, when information is accessible to intelligence and law enforcement services in a cross-border manner, or does it believe that the 25 national systems will be sufficient to accomplish this task, as suggested by a home secretary (report of the house of lords' european union committee 'after madrid: the eu's response after terrorism', 5th report - 5, 2004 pp. 128-141)?
question no 3 by chris davies (h-0567/05) subject: transparency and openness when will the council have the opportunity to vote to amend its rules of procedure to make its meetings public when it is considering draft legislative acts?
i suppose that's probably true. it is possible to discuss the number of languages in the european union, but as far as the treaties are concerned, i believe there is only one version. so we live with each other, regardless of our nationality.
question no 4 is withdrawn. question no 5 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0575/05) subject: statements by mr gül on the patriarchate and the seminary of chalkis in statements to the press on 27 june 2005, the turkish foreign minister, mr gül, on the one hand, simply ruled out the possibility that the turkish government would recognize the ecumenical character of the patriarchate, and on the other hand, he specified that the issue of the chalkis seminary was being considered on the basis of the legal framework currently in force in turkey, which means that there is no question of the school resuming its activities. in the light of the conclusions of the european council of december 2004 and the commission communication of december 2004 on the progress made by turkey, which contains a direct reference to the religious rights of non-muslim communities, could the council state its reaction to mr gül's statements?
question no 6 by bernd posselt (h-0576/05) subject: preparation for croatia's accession how does the british presidency view the current state of preparation for croatia's accession to the eu and what steps are now planned and on what dates?
we shall leave it to the competent services to interpret this question. however, i read in the annex to the rules of procedure concerning question time that it is recommended, as regards supplementary questions, that the president should as a general rule allow a supplementary question from the author of the main question and one or at most two supplementary questions from members belonging preferably to a political group and/or a member state other than that of the author of the main question. it seems to me that giving this recommendation an even more generous interpretation would lead us to change profoundly the spirit of question time, which is designed to have a certain rhythm and to allow many questions to be asked. it is not a question of allowing members who wish to do so to have a general policy debate. take croatia as an example. there could be 15 or 20 of you here who want to continue with the supplementary questions on croatia, which would mean that the subsequent questions from the other members would never be asked. it is to avoid this that the regulation has been designed in this way. mr. ebner, you said what you said. the matter was referred to the competent services. you will receive a more formal answer, but i think the spirit of question time is extremely clear.
question no 7 by claude moraes (h-0579/05) subject: transparency of europolfollowing the appointment of a new director of europol, the positive results of his appearance before members of the european parliament at the meeting of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in june 2005, and the successful visit by meps to europol's headquarters in april 2005, can the council indicate how it envisages future cooperation between europol and the european institutions? does the council consider that the current system of accountability between europol and the european institutions is fully transparent?
question no 8 by sahra wagenknecht (h-0584/05) subject: impunity law for paramilitary groups in colombia the colombian government has just passed a law in the house, with the loud support of members of parliament linked to paramilitary groups, guaranteeing them de facto impunity and thus allowing notorious drug traffickers to escape justice. this law has been strongly criticized by the representative of the united nations high commissioner for human rights in colombia and by all human rights organizations. the eu - and in particular britain - had clearly stated in cartagena that the continuation of its aid to colombia was conditional on the existence of a legal framework for this demobilization. what attitude does the council intend to take towards the colombian government following this decision which favours the perpetrators of crimes against humanity and which constitutes a serious breach of the victims' rights to truth, justice and reparation? does he intend to continue to encourage police cooperation with a country which gives such gifts to notorious terrorists and drug traffickers?
question no 9 by struan stevenson (h-0589/05) subject: postal sector and regulatory asymmetry does the uk presidency's priority of promoting better regulation include action to ensure regulatory balance in the european union to eliminate the regulatory asymmetry that is beginning to develop in sectors such as postal services? given the wide disparities in the two aspects of independence and efficiency between national regulatory authorities, what initiatives does the presidency intend to take to ensure that uk companies, which are subject to strict national regulatory regimes, are not put at a disadvantage in relation to competitors who have much more freedom in their national markets in areas such as price setting and performance targets?
mr stevenson, i do not know whether we are translating directly from scots, but we are probably forced to go through another language which is spoken in the united kingdom and which many people here speak.
president-in-office of the council. i find myself in concurrence with the points that the honourable member raises. i can assure you that when serving as a british minister with responsibilities for the postal services directive, these were points that were made very vocally to me by the communication workers union, never mind by the royal mail and others. so i am aware of the concerns that have been expressed in a number of member states in terms of the relative liberalisation of the markets that has taken place and indeed the extent of openness within markets at the present time. in relation to the specific point on vat and regulatory asymmetry, the commission has proposed amending the relative vat directive. the council has not yet reached agreement on the proposal and understands that the commission is currently exploring ways of achieving a common interpretation of the current framework. in that regard, we await the outcome of those further areas of work.
question no 10 by liam aylward (h-0590/05) subject: point on the situation in zimbabwe ten united nations special rapporteurs on human rights and freedoms have recently issued a statement expressing concern about the mass forced evictions in zimbabwe and the human rights violations that accompany them, and raising questions about the negative impact of these acts on water and food supplies, education and health care, including treatment for hiv/aids. will the council take stock of the situation in zimbabwe following the extended visit of the un special envoy, mrs anna tibaijuka, who is also the director of the un agency for human settlements?
president-in-office of the council. it is not within the council's remit to report on situations following the visit of a united nations special envoy to a country. the report of the un special envoy mrs anna kajumulo will be available through the usual united nations sources, i am reliably informed. in the context of the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of cfsp, the council will, of course, report on the situation in the said country.
president-in-office of the council. i find myself in complete agreement with the honourable member in deploring the actions of the said government and the impoverishment of its people that has followed as a consequence of the misrule in that country for so long. the european union continues to call on the government of zimbabwe to cooperate with the international relief efforts which tragically have now proved necessary and to allow humanitarian assistance to be provided free from political interference. it is also the case that the european union continues through sanctions to place pressure on the regime. these sanctions have the support of the democratic opposition and the non-governmental organisation community within zimbabwe and they show that the european union is determined to make its voice heard on human rights and the rule of law. i deplore the situation and hope and wish that it will change in due course and, in that regard, will take interest in the report that is being produced by the united nations special envoy.
question no 11 by brian crowley (h-0592/05) subject: restrictions on all political leaders in myanmarwe welcome the recent release by the myanmar authorities of 249 political 'prisoners' throughout the country, including two prominent journalists and a close aide to the still imprisoned leader of the national league for democracy (nld), aung san suu kyi. does the council agree that the myanmar authorities should lift the restrictions still imposed on all political leaders and resume political dialogue with all interested parties? will the council also use its good offices to call on the military government of myanmar to lift all restrictions, starting with the release of aung san suu kyi, leader of the pro-democracy movement and nobel laureate, from house arrest?
president-in-office of the council. the european union pointed out that the releases of political prisoners mentioned by the honourable member were a welcome step towards national reconciliation in burma. the european union has repeatedly called for the liberation of aung san suu kyi, most recently on 17 june, ahead of her 60th birthday. on that occasion, the european union hoped that this would be the last birthday she spent deprived of her freedom and urged the state peace and development council – spdc – to release her, u tin oo and all the other political prisoners immediately. the european union is committed to supporting national reconciliation and respect for human rights and democracy in burma and continues to call on the spdc to enter into a genuine dialogue with the nld and with ethnic representatives to find peaceful political solutions. like ann sang suu kyi, the european union supports an approach to resolving the long-standing political problems in burma based on dialogue and non-violence. consequently, the union looks forward to the immediate and unconditional release of all remaining political detainees in order to enable all social and political forces to participate in that reconciliation process. the european union has shared the above concerns with the burmese leadership on several occasions, most recently on 6 may at a ministerial meeting held in the margins of the asean ministerial meeting in kyoto. at that meeting, the european union handed over a list of political prisoners whose release was requested on urgent humanitarian grounds. at the eu-asean ministerial meeting and the arf ministerial meeting on 28 and 29 july in laos, the union again voiced its concerns about the situation in burma.
president-in-office of the council. i am sincerely grateful to the honourable gentleman for the question that he raises and pay tribute to his long-standing interest in this matter. i myself, before assuming my responsibilities as minister for europe, had responsibility for south asia and south east asia within the uk foreign office and i took the opportunity, anticipating in some ways his question, to meet directly with the asean ambassadors in london, to press home to them directly the critical role that other asian countries can play in bringing to bear a full awareness by that regime of the strength of international feeling. in that regard, of course, the european union continues to support efforts, both internationally and in the united nations general assembly, to bring pressure to bear on the regime, to take forward the process of national reconciliation that we all seek and to address urgently the deep concerns we feel in relation to the unfair detention of political prisoners.
question no 12 by seán ó neachtain (h-0594/05) subject: rape as a weapon of war a medical aid organization has treated 500 victims of sexual violence in darfur in four months, and these cases represent only a fraction of the rapes committed in that region of sudan, said a senior un official, under-secretary-general jan egeland. he added that women and children were systematically raped and assaulted in this devastated region. does the council accept that the sudanese authorities are turning a blind eye to these atrocities? does it also recognise that the international community urgently needs to do more to protect innocent civilians from such barbaric behaviour and to put an end to the culture of impunity in sudan?
president-in-office of the council. the council has, on various occasions, condemned the massive humanitarian rights violations taking place in darfur, including the systematic rape of women, demanding that those responsible at all levels be held accountable for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. the european union strongly supported the creation of the international commission of inquiry on the violation of human rights and international humanitarian law in darfur, which found that government forces and militia conducted indiscriminate attacks, including rape and other forms of sexual violence, throughout darfur on a widespread and systematic basis, as well as the referral of the findings of the commission to the international criminal court. the eu has contributed more than eur 150 million to the humanitarian programme in sudan, including funding for united nations agencies and ngos in darfur engaged in protection issues and the treatment of victims of sexual violence. the european union has also allocated eur 92 million from its africa peace facility to the african union mission in sudan. the latest report by the united nations secretary-general states that, 'the presence of the african union and its patrols directly resulted in a decrease in both sexual and gender-based violence and other violations of human rights.' in its conclusions of 23 may 2005, the council particularly welcomed the adoption of the resolution on the situation of human rights in sudan by the 61st session of the united nations commission on human rights, which expresses deep concern at the situation of human rights in darfur, including gender-based violence, condemns sexual violence against women and girls and calls upon all parties to the conflict to protect women and girls from sexual and other forms of violence. the council urged the sudanese government to implement all the recommendations set out in the resolution. human rights issues, including sexual violence, are permanently addressed in the political dialogue conducted with the government of sudan, most recently in june, on the occasion of the demarche conducted by the european union troika in khartoum, concerning the arrest of two staff members of médecins sans frontières, accused of disseminating false information on sexual violence in darfur.
president-in-office of the council. there is of course a desire for urgency, given the scale of the atrocities that appear to have been perpetrated in that country. it is clear that there can be no immunity for the people who have committed those crimes and those responsible must be brought to justice as a matter of urgency. that is why the european union strongly supported the referral of darfur to the international criminal court and i think that represented a significant milestone in the progress that we still wish to see. we have also made it clear that there must be full cooperation with the court by all sides. the prosecutor has already decided, on 6 june, that he has sufficient evidence of the scope and nature of the crimes committed within his jurisdiction to mount a formal investigation and he has reached this decision independently. that is why, although i recognise the strength of feeling there is about urgent action on this matter, we must respect the fact that the court is now in its investigation phase. it will need the support of the international community, and that includes the european union, if it is to fulfil the mandate given to it by the security council. i can assure the questioner that i am acutely aware of the desire for a speedy conclusion, but i am confident that the way forward has been found through referral to the international criminal court. i can assure you of the continuing support for the international criminal court in its efforts to ensure that no-one can commit such terrible crimes with impunity.
question time is over. questions 13 to 37 will be answered in writing. for questions not dealt with in plenary, see the annex entitled 'question time'. (the sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
the agenda calls for the report by eva-britt svensson, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on gender discrimination in the health system (2004/2218 (ini)) (a6-0250/2005).
mr president, the report in question is remarkably rich and shows great ambition in the number of points it covers, but we know that we have neither the human nor the material resources to meet such a large demand, and it seems to me that a certain modesty should be the guiding principle of our work. it is true that at a time when we are making technological discoveries available to everyone, when we are concerned about the distribution of energy and food, it would be high time to consider the establishment of a european bank for health and prevention. it is clear that in the countries which have recently joined the european union, a large part of the population is excluded from public health systems. these populations are not looking for medicine. so, should we not consider that medicine is addressed to them through screening campaigns, vaccinations, basic care provided without gender distinction by mobile personnel and equipment? the right to health has become an undeniable right in our old european countries, but not in those countries where medical and social protection is too often provided for those who have paid contributions to benefit from it. the unskilled, unemployed, the elderly, single parents, and the unskilled are often denied access to the most common forms of care. apart from the resources that could be provided by the structural funds, such as financial support for the medical structures already in place in these countries, it would be imperative to ensure that a minimum of health protection is provided to these populations. it would be wise to start with the children, because we know that without prevention, without basic medical care during childhood, irreversible disorders can set in. the second would be to give priority to the areas where the pathologies are most important and, if necessary, to extend the scope of activities. if we want to claim to be involved in humanitarian action, that is our duty as parliamentarians, that is the duty of our assembly. it is a challenge, but we must have the ambition to meet it.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the members of this house for a very interesting debate. i have listened carefully to the suggestions and opinions that have been expressed. i am not going to comment on all of them in such a short time, but i have noted them and will of course take them very seriously. the reality is that there is a difference in health between men and women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the development of the internal market and to promote the development of the internal market. and this is something that should be taken into account when health policy is being formulated. i shall not, of course, go into all the specific diseases that have been heard. but what i can say is that in our new programme there is a specific provision and the possibility to deal with specific diseases. of course, they cannot all be covered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this of course brings me to a key point i wanted to raise: the need for money. because everything that's been said is very true. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that means, first of all, that the member states should devote part of their budget to this sector, and i agree with the report which encourages the use of the structural funds for investment in the health sector; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am aware of the positive attitude of parliament in this area and i rely on its support in the present difficulties with the adoption of the financial perspective for the next period. i would also say that we must realize that many issues fall within the competence of the member states: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health system is not affected by the disease. as i have already said, we will use all the non-legislative instruments at our disposal to promote policy in these areas. but the reference made earlier, for example, to breast cancer screening - that it has not yet been implemented by all member states - points to a weakness. i believe that by collecting and publishing data and information on member states in these areas there will be considerable pressure on them to implement exactly those recommendations and guidelines with which they agree. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and parliament once again on this initiative.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at noon.
the agenda calls for the report by mary honeyball, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on options for developing the european schools system (2004/2237 (ini)) (a6-0200/2005).
the commission has noted your question and will reply to it. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the rapporteur. mr president, tourism is the world's largest economic activity, both in terms of turnover and number of jobs. it is one of the most dynamic sectors in the world, although it is true that it is extremely volatile and very sensitive, especially to attacks - we remember the attacks of september 11 that had brought tourism development to a halt. developing countries were the first to suffer from this shutdown. the characteristic of the tourist economy is that it is an extremely transversal economy. it naturally creates hotels and other accommodation facilities, such as lodges or guesthouses, which are outside the hotel system proper; it establishes restaurants in hotels and elsewhere; it provides training for staff in the hospitality trades and also in languages. it allows for an extremely diffuse economic activity: all kinds of vendors are involved to meet the demand of those who have forgotten their toothpaste or medicines or those who consume croissants every morning in their hotel; all food types are interested in tourism development, not to mention all souvenir shops. in addition, tourism itself generates a very high demand for heavy infrastructure, primarily airports, but also ports and roads and roads that serve tourist places or places to visit. in addition, tourism is developing a special demand for the royal rights of the state, whether in the field of security or public health. i'll get back to you on that. tourism is therefore a guarantee of real economic development by virtue of its transversal character, but not only. tourism also makes it possible to protect the environment and to conserve the territory better, since it is true that with the creation of world heritage sites we are now considering areas to be protected without sanctifying them in order to allow them to be exploited 'smartly' from the tourist point of view. tourism is also a factor of democracy and political balance, because tourists, when they do not want to be locked into an all-inclusive formula, discover a country. because tourism enriches, allows training which, as everyone knows, is the enemy of dictatorship; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network, the development of a european tourism network. finally, tourism is a key factor in public health and education. the health risk is absolutely counter-advertising. we remember the ebola problem in the congo and elsewhere, but this also applies to malaria and makes states much more sensitive to the eradication of these diseases. tourism is extremely demanding in decent hospital infrastructure which, of course, will also serve the local population. tourism is also an educational factor because it provides training in languages and thus opens up the mind. let's not cover our faces. tourism can also be a factor in disorder and abuse. i'll only remember two. the first is sex tourism, which is clearly a means of development for a number of countries that do not have the means to prevent it. the second is real estate speculation, including the capture by ruling families or the destruction of sites if not careful. the fact that tourism is the world's largest economic activity and can be an economic lever for developing countries cannot leave the european union indifferent. we must therefore integrate tourism better into all our aid measures. this applies naturally to all our programmes, whether edf, meda, asean or others. the percentage of these funds directly allocated to tourism development projects must be increased. we must strengthen our own structures ourselves. i am glad that the commissioner is here because it is good for both the enterprise dg and the development dg, which should have a more robust tourism service. we need help to strengthen the public/private partnership. let us not be fooled, the public sector will not provide the full development of tourism. but the public sector can, by encouraging, in particular, the creation of major infrastructure, and by the aid we provide, contribute to the further development of tourism. finally, tourism must give rise to ethical reflection within the european union and, more generally, at the global level. we must not help just anyone and just anywhere, to avoid any corruption and any capture. we must think about ways of stopping sex tourism, including criminal forms in our countries. the level of working conditions and public freedoms, particularly as regards child labour, in developing countries must be ensured. tourism, which promotes exchange and mutual knowledge, is a way forward for developing countries. and when we visit countries, we may be more aware than others of the urgency of amplifying and channelling international aid. it makes her visible. when you've seen, you care, and when you care, you give in a much more visible way.
the rapporteur. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. it is true that the wording of paragraph q is a bit blunt in saying that "tourism is the enemy of totalitarianism and dictatorships". i would therefore like to moderate it so that my colleagues will accept the amendment, saying that 'the development of tourism can be a means of combating totalitarianism and dictatorships'. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to congratulate and thank all the colleagues who have been involved in the drafting of this resolution. unfortunately, it's not the first, and it's probably not the last. i would, however, like to see it not be left without a follow-up. i voted for it personally precisely because it contains a paragraph 12 which calls on the commission to take full account of the need to finance measures to prevent forest fires. in 1992, there was a regulation. this regulation was abolished in 2003 in favour of forest focus, which today has €61 million for environmental protection programmes and only €9 million for firefighting. i myself come from a forest area and i must tell you that the forestry workers regret this situation, as much funding is needed for the construction of firewalls, equipment, monitoring and control systems which are proving very effective in forest fire prevention. i therefore hope that the commission will take full account of this resolution and give forest fire prevention and the establishment of preventive measures the place they should have in our budget. otherwise, we would be forced to realize that our compassion often has no effect.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament from a french region, the massif central, which is very dependent on tourism development, i am pleased to have supported the report by my colleague luis queiro and i would like to join in the congratulations he has received for his excellent work. this vote was eagerly awaited by tourism professionals. tourism is one of the fastest growing economic sectors in the european union. it is used by more than 2 million businesses, most of which are smes. i am very pleased with the amendments calling for the simplification of the special vat arrangements for the profit margin of travel agents and tour operators and for the preservation of the competitive position of operators established in the european union vis-à-vis operators from third countries. i also hope that the council will take a decision on reduced vat rates without further delay, thus allowing member states to apply reduced rates to restaurants, as is already the case for other tourism-related activities. many promises have been made to the restaurant industry and they now expect us to deliver. let's not let them down! finally, it is imperative that the european council and commission have a comprehensive approach to tourism... (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. i support the report in its main lines. however, i would have some reservations about its approach to tourism development, which is too focused on environmental and consumer protection. the voice of consumers and environmentalists is already being heard in full in the european institutions: consumer protection and environmental protection are the subject of specific titles in the treaties and entire directorates-general of the commission are concerned with these two poles respectively. so why would you want to outbid in these areas? i believe that any tourism policy should be focused primarily on the economic activity generated by the tourist industry and that a balanced approach to the different poles can only be achieved if the interests of tourist service providers (hotel operators, restaurants, tour operators, crafts of all kinds, private transport services, etc.) are fully protected. the rapporteur is right to say that tourism is a factor of growth, but in order for it to be fully so, it is also necessary to enable our national economic players to be competitive and to avoid over-regulation and over-taxation, as is the case in france.
in writing. as early as 1957, europe set up private schools to educate the children of staff of the european communities together with accepting, for a very limited number, children from outside. what was the spirit of this policy of exception, applying a principle of corporatist preference, which is condemned in other areas by the same europe? do what i say, but don't do what i do! this system of european schools thus promotes the concept of european citizenship which is for europe what the concept of national preference should be for france and the other free nations of europe. but the development of these schools is not intended to build the europe of nations to which we aspire, but to promote european integration; the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. these schools are not only discriminatory towards non-european civil servants but also towards all children in europe. they also create a system of exorbitant privileges for the sole use of officials of the european institutions in order to reproduce a single and obligatory european model: a federal europe through integration.
the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on serious and neglected diseases in developing countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague mr bowis, as has been done before, on his excellent, comprehensive and balanced work on serious and neglected diseases. the report is a hot topic on the eve of the united nations summit in new york, where the millennium development goals will be the focus of debate. we need not remind you that we already know that these goals will not be achieved within the time limits we set ourselves and that they are about to be added to the list of promises broken by the rich countries. because three of the eight major objectives of the millennium development goals concern health issues, my colleague mr bowis's work must allow for a better reflection of this reality. i hope that the european parliament will not only raise awareness but also send a strong and clear message to the member states to revive the objectives. the health problems faced by the poorest countries are fuelling the spiral of underdevelopment. the simple fact is that those who need treatment the most today do not have access to it. why would you do that? either because they are expensive or because basic research and development of research is insufficient or non-existent for some serious and neglected diseases. in addition, where these medicines exist and are affordable, they may not be available to the population because they are not adapted to the specific health conditions of those countries. the problem is more serious and structural; while most basic research is carried out by the public sector, drug development is almost entirely in the hands of the private sector. without a guarantee of profits, the pharmaceutical industry sees no point in investing in the development of new molecules. the commission has therefore decided to grant a number of patents to the companies concerned. the problem is that the majority of the population with little purchasing power in the countries targeted by the millennium development goals cannot afford to buy the vital medicines. this logic also leads to artificially high prices. in the era of globalisation, colleagues, everyone's health must be everyone's responsibility. as far as medicines are concerned, it is the needs that must determine our strategy for action in response to the global health and development problem. we must also encourage and support developing countries to spend at least 20% of their budget on health policies, investment in research and development or adaptation of intellectual property rules, since the financial resources of these countries are not sufficient on their own. there can be no progress in today's world on the major health challenge without a joint commitment from the public and private sectors. the pharmaceutical industry must abandon its exclusively profit-oriented approach and reassess its commitments and priorities, particularly in the area of research and development and marketing. the public authorities, on the other hand, must define a legal framework, set guidelines and offer prospects that guarantee the general interest while respecting the interests of each individual. i therefore draw the attention of the council and the commission to the need to take initiatives: to draw up a new international treaty on medical research and development, to include in the 7th eu research framework programme a specific reference to research and development for neglected diseases which would be guaranteed funding, to ensure that the doha declaration on compulsory licensing is not called into question by bilateral trade agreements, and finally to promote the early entry into force of the community regulation currently being discussed between parliament and the council, so as to enable the generic drug industry to produce treatments which will avoid catastrophic health effects on a large part of our planet.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to once again commend the quality of the report before us. i quite broadly agree with everything that has been said on this subject. it is a bit timely today, because two days ago i was at the rearmament conference, if i may say so, of the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria. i have just announced a number of measures i intend to take, in particular to strengthen research on diseases which are specific to developing and poor countries and which, unfortunately, are not always of interest to the pharmaceutical industry because of the low economic returns. i therefore quite agree that public authorities and governments clearly need to be more involved in these policies. i also announced a number of measures to encourage medical professionals living in europe and elsewhere who are part of the diaspora to return to their countries. we could put in place a number of incentives to this end. i am not going to hide from you that i am increasingly tempted to propose to you in the near future a gradual plan to systematically increase the share of our budgets devoted to education and health, either in the tenth edf or in the next budget, since this question has not yet been decided. i think more and more that education and health are paramount. while we obviously have to respond urgently to a series of ills and mobilize the means to do so, we must also think seriously about a real, i would say almost systematic, strategy in the field of education and health. i've heard of a percentage of 20%, even 35%. i think that it may not be easy to envisage 35% in the immediate future, but we could certainly plan a gradual increase in the resources devoted to these two sectors over several years. i also think, and i will probably come back to this later in the debate on union policy and in the debate on budgetary aid, that it would be appropriate to open negotiations with governments on sectoral budgetary aid. it would also make it possible, within a defined framework, monitored and accompanied by a minimum of conditions, to encourage governments, as public authorities, to take care of these priority sectors. i have taken many ideas from this report. i can assure you that i shall draw a great deal from it in guiding and proposing policy in this area. i am very sensitive to this, as you are, and i thank all the speakers and the rapporteur for providing us with an excellent and inspiring tool, which i will certainly use.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the famine in niger.
president. - mr president, commissioner, on 28 august mr annan said: 'we are all responsible for the famine in niger.' should we do the same? i myself wrote to you in april, asking you to take account of the threat of famine in niger. i should like to take this opportunity to thank you for your reply. but we still have to wait for the horror images to appear on our screens before we intervene. it is true that until june the nigerian government, which has long denied the seriousness of the crisis, refused to distribute free food rations, saying that it did so to avoid destabilising the market, when we know very well that these moderately priced and subsidised foodstuffs were unavailable and unaffordable for the poorest. so we always come back to the same question: what are we doing for this dying, sinking africa? the world has finally given some thought to the fate of niger. help is finally here. donors realized that this crisis was a real famine, affecting a third of the population of nigeria, or 3.6 million people, which is huge. what we can still ask in our resolution is that the aid to these populations be commensurate with the demand and that, of course, it reach the most vulnerable without exception. but i'm not going to tell you anything about that either. i am thinking in particular of the nomadic populations, for example, who are not necessarily on the world food programme's lists and who have lost almost all their livestock, which is also starving. for example, there have been a number of suicides among the peuls, a proud people who cannot stand begging. this famine also reminds us that we must have a genuine development aid policy. i know very well, commissioner, that you know how to put figures and actions behind words. so what is the commission's sustainable development plan for niger? for africa? what about support for agricultural exports? all these questions will come up again and again, but i believe that at some point it will really have to be decided at european union level.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the food crisis in niger is unbearable. it is unbearable because populations, especially children, are in nutritional distress and in vital need of help. but the way in which this crisis has been exploited, to criticise the slowness of the donors and accuse them of not assisting people in danger, calls for a few comments on my part which are simply intended to present an objective analysis of the situation in niger and to give correct information, at least on european aid. niger is one of the poorest countries on the planet. it is one of the driest areas in the sahel, where food balance is still precarious. food security is extremely fragile and malnutrition is a recurring problem. the slightest climatic disturbance, such as insufficient rainfall, or crop destruction by predators, whether birds or locusts, the slightest disturbance in market prices immediately cause food safety problems. people are using up their stocks too soon, the granaries are empty as early as april, food is scarce in the markets or is offered at skyrocketing prices. people have to wait until the next harvest, in september, october, provided, of course, that the rainy season is going well. the crisis we are facing is, however, more severe than in previous years. the locust infestations in late summer 2004 and the lack of rainfall in several parts of the sahel, and particularly in parts of niger, resulted in a very poor harvest. as early as september 2004, the commission has allocated €25.5 million for locust control in the sahel countries most affected, i.e. senegal, chad, mauritania, mali and niger, and funds have been allocated to the fao (food and agriculture organization of the united nations). in february and march 2005, the first signs of a severe food shortage began to emerge in niger. there has been a rapid increase in the price of grain, a fall in the price of livestock, a massive and premature transhumance of herds and a shortage of local food in the markets. in march, the nigerian government, using data from the national food crisis prevention and management facility, largely supported by the commission, released money for the purchase of 42 000 tonnes of cereals sold at low prices and distributed food in exchange for labour-intensive work. the world food programme, which supports the national scheme, launched an appeal for eur 2.3 million, to which the commission immediately responded by allocating eur 1 million. at that time, no one, not the government, not the wfp, not the ngos, could assess, in the absence of precise overall data, whether this was a slightly more difficult weld than in other years or a serious food crisis. the commission then contacted aid organizations to find out their analysis and, above all, their plan, since no request for funding had been received at that time. no ngo, no operator with whom we are currently working has contacted us to ask for help, as is normally the case since, as you know, the commission does not intervene itself in this type of intervention operation. it was only in late may or early june that nutritional surveys conducted in certain parts of the country revealed the growing crisis. that's when the humanitarian partners came forward. the commission then took two emergency decisions, via echo, for a total amount of eur 6.3 million. that's the timeline. what about today? a recent echo evaluation mission concluded that nutritional needs are now being met satisfactorily, although implementation is lagging behind. the commission is of course prepared to step up its assistance if additional needs arise. what is needed now is good coordination of the partners on the ground, so that relief can be targeted and accelerated. the european commission also provided €2 million for mali, €4.6 million for eritrea and €4.5 million for ethiopia, which is also facing a food and nutrition crisis. this crisis is a challenge to us and it deserves that we collectively learn all the lessons from it. at my level, i see two main ones. firstly, with regard to niger, it is imperative, beyond humanitarian efforts, to find a lasting solution to the country's vulnerability by strengthening the food security strategy. this is exactly the policy that the commission has been pursuing for years, in its attempt to provide a lasting response to this crisis. i am thinking in particular of irrigation projects, the construction of reservoirs, etc., which are financed by the community. the nigerian national early warning and nutritional detection mechanisms must be supported and strengthened. rural development and market organisation programmes are part of this objective, as are school canteens. the commission is niger's largest donor. the ninth edf has provided the country with a financial envelope of almost eur 400 million, including eur 60.6 million for the development of food security. the food security budget line allocates eur 15 million to a programme (2004 to 2006) to support the national food crisis prevention and management system. the commission is, however, almost alone, with a few european countries, in helping this country. discussions on the post-9th edf allocation, which will begin next year, will certainly take into account the lessons learned from this food crisis. but it must be said that whatever the commission does for niger, the challenge is immense. it will be difficult to raise it without greater development aid from the international community as a whole. the increase in development aid is, as you know, the commission's priority and that is the message we will be delivering in new york. secondly, as regards the response of international aid organizations, i regret to say that it could have been better coordinated, better coordinated with the nigerian government, between aid organizations, whether ngos or un agencies, both in the alert and detection phase and in the crisis response and needs targeting phase. the commission is ready to support an independent evaluation to identify ways of improving aid coordination in such a situation. a word about the action of the donors. i am not hiding the fact that i am disturbed by the statements made by some humanitarian organizations. as a donor, the commission could have acted more quickly if it had found humanitarian organizations on the ground last spring, as it sought to do. but i can see that once the media machine got going, there was no problem finding partners willing to come to niger. i have always praised the expertise and commitment of the humanitarian organizations that are our partners, but the comments i have heard from some of them about the food crises in africa, whether in the sahel, the horn of africa or southern africa, saying that the problem is inadequate donor response, surprises me. it's an intellectually limiting argument. the food crises in africa - as you know very well - are complex phenomena, the result of many factors, the climate, the demography, the health of the population - just think of the disastrous effects of aids in southern africa, for example, because of the lack of physical resistance - political governance and economic governance. i do not think it is entirely fair to say that the aid of donors will be enough to prevent these crises. i also reject a somewhat paternalistic and moralistic attitude. i can assure you that the commission will remain extremely vigilant and i hope that in future, when we become aware of a problem and an appeal is made, we will find operators and partner organisations to enable us to work more quickly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon.
the agenda calls for the debate of seven motions for resolutions on human rights violations in china, including freedom of religion see minutes of the sitting.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am going to speak on behalf of my colleague, mrs benita ferrero-waldner. although significant progress has been made on human rights issues in china in recent years, notably in the area of economic and social rights, the european union remains concerned about the human rights situation in general in the country and in particular about the restrictions on civil and political rights that have been implemented. respect for human rights is indeed an essential factor in the union's external policy. the commission has regularly raised this issue frankly and openly with the chinese authorities, both through political dialogue - including at the highest level as was recently the case at the last bilateral summit held in beijing on 5 september - and through the bilateral dialogue specifically devoted to human rights. in the framework of the euro-chinese dialogue, the issue of freedom of belief, religion, expression and association has always been at the forefront of the european union's priorities. the union has repeatedly expressed its deep concern in particular at the situation of individuals who are persecuted or deprived of their fundamental rights for openly practicing their faith, whatever their religion or belief. a number of the imprisoned religious mentioned by the honourable members are included in the list of individual cases which the union systematically transmits to its chinese partners in the framework of the human rights dialogue. in addition, the european union has made several formal approaches to the chinese authorities through its representatives in beijing. tenzin deleg rinpoche and pastor zhang rongliang - to cite recent examples - are among those who have been targeted. the abolition of the death penalty, or at least the introduction of a moratorium on its application, china's rapid ratification of the international covenant on civil and political rights and cooperation with un mechanisms are also among the priority topics regularly discussed with the chinese authorities. in the latter case, the european union made particular efforts, at the last session of the human rights dialogue held in luxembourg on 24 and 25 february, to ensure that the un special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief could visit china as soon as possible. the european union certainly intends to continue and deepen the dialogue with beijing in the field of human rights through seminars on these issues which, in addition to the dialogue, also raise awareness among some important actors of chinese civil society. we hope that the next session of the specific dialogue on human rights, to be held in beijing on 24 and 25 october, will make significant progress.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation of political prisoners in syria.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the partnership between europe and the mediterranean countries has already made significant progress towards building a foundation of shared values: human rights, representative democracy, gender equality, social progress. in this respect, the opening of an electoral process in egypt, which is not perfect, and the restoration of sovereignty in lebanon are examples. unfortunately, recent events in tunisia show us that it is difficult to progress on this path. that is why the question of the conditionality of our partnerships must be clearly posed. serious breaches of an association agreement with a country should be capable of leading to its suspension, even temporarily. in syria, the coming to power of president al-assad has raised a lot of hopes. however, we are receiving conflicting political signals, leaving confusion and uncertainty about the completion of the ratification process of the association agreement. as chairman of the mashrek delegation, i recently led a delegation from our parliament there. we have made a very strong point during this trip, particularly to president al-assad himself, about the need to respect fundamental freedoms and the need to secure the release of the two former parliamentarians, seif and al-humsi. this release is the subject of a report by our delegation from mashrek. the release, i quote, 'of the two imprisoned syrian parliamentarians is part of the prerequisites for the signing of the association agreement.' the vote on this emergency resolution will be a strong message from our parliament; the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is not a negotiable element of our partnerships.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is fully involved in the european union's efforts to support human rights in syria. on the basis of the principles expressed in the barcelona declaration, our aim is to establish a constructive dialogue with the syrian authorities on human rights. in this context, the eu troika has in the past taken steps following the arrests of opposition figures including mr al-turk and the sentencing of two members of parliament, mr al-homsi and mr riad seiff. the commission has recently conveyed to the syrian ambassador its grave concern about the detention of public figures, members of parliament, and in particular mr homsi and mr seiff. the european commission delegation in damascus is following very closely the detention of these two political prisoners. the head of delegation recently discussed this situation with the deputy foreign minister, mr moallem. the attempt to release mr homsi and mr seiff failed, although under syrian law they could be granted early release after serving three quarters of their sentence. the law nevertheless requires that a statement mentioning the cessation of future political activities detrimental to the syrian state be signed by both political prisoners. the latter refused to sign it. so from the syrian point of view, there is nothing more that can be done to free the prisoners. we can also see contradictory but positive signs, which may be the result of international pressure: for example, the acquittal of human rights activist aktham naisseh last june. however, the overall situation is unfortunately not satisfactory and the commission will continue, in close association with the presidency and the member states, to raise further individual cases in its contacts at all levels with the syrian administration. as regards the negotiations of the association agreement, the commission remains convinced that a human rights dialogue will be more effective in the context of contractual relations as provided for in the agreement. this agreement, including provisions on free trade, cooperation and political dialogue, and with the human rights and democracy clause as its essential elements, will be an important instrument for the opening up and democratisation of syrian society. as regards the strengthening of the meda programmes with a view to supporting the development of a democratic society, the commission, under the current national indicative programme with syria, maintains support for civil society as one of its cooperation priorities and wishes to continue in this direction through future programmes. i shall say a word, since this has been mentioned several times, about the association agreement. the commission remains aware of the current political difficulties in signing the agreement with syria. by organising the military withdrawal from lebanon, syria has taken a positive first step towards implementing un security council resolution 1559. nevertheless, it is clear that due to the current situation, i.e. the continued and apparent presence of syrian intelligence services in lebanon, and also the lack of cooperation in iraq, it is imperative that syria take strong and positive actions to restore confidence before considering any possible signing of the agreement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few moments.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details, see minutes)
we have now finished with the votes and we can now move on to the explanations of vote.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was suspended at 5 p.m.)
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen from romania and bulgaria, everyone has greeted you warmly, our group has greeted you warmly and, as you can see, you have arrived at the right time. actually, your situation is strange. clearly, this parliament is furious, at least if we believe the group chairmen who have spoken against the commission, against so and so. mr borrell, you said that the moment mr blair spoke here was a great moment of democracy. what happened? what happened? he spoke, he left and since then the presidency has been for absentee subscribers. "they" no longer exist at all, we don't know what "they" do: this is not a great moment for democracy. (turning to mr watson who asked him: 'what about the french presidency?') there is a british presidency, it should be presiding and it is not. we have therefore the right as a parliament to point out that it is doing nothing. that is the least that a parliament can do. point to the line. i would now like to say something very simple. if mr barroso thinks this or that about the constitution, he should come and say so to parliament. we'll talk to him, we'll give him a soap. tell him to come to parliament and talk about the constitution. if mr barroso thinks that there are laws that should be withdrawn, he should say so! and on this, mr poettering, you cannot say that you agree with mr barroso on the substance: we do not know what mr barroso wants. you may say that you agree with the form, but in substance i personally do not know what the commission intends to do. as regards better regulation, let us take the example of mrs reding, who wants to set up a television station in europe, a berlusconi-style television station, with advertising everywhere. is that "better lawmaking"? no, it's wrong to legislate and we don't want it. we know what's in it. let mrs reding come forward with her new television directive, and you will see that what the commission wants will never get a majority in this parliament. so it's very simple. the commission proposes, it has ideas. she goes on vacation, she washes her hair, she comes home, she has ideas. let her come to parliament and put forward her ideas. when we have a directive, we put it to the vote: it passes or it does not pass. when we want to withdraw a directive, we vote on the proposal: it passes or it does not pass. we are going one by one, and whether it is better regulation, neoliberal regulation, socialist regulation or no regulation at all, what matters is the content. i am tired of people who keep proposing things in the european area without knowing who to turn to. we want a commission which is a commission which proposes european laws. we want a parliament. we want a council which looks after its own affairs: when there is a presidency, it should preside without looking after anything else. if mr blair likes to play cricket and drink tea, that's his business, but as president, he has other things to do. he must make proposals for europe to move forward, and for the time being europe is not moving forward because of this presidency. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr vice-premier, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president, i would like to join my group in welcoming the observers from romania and bulgaria. but if we don't want it to be a pious vow, we must have the courage to face all the implications of our choices. the prospect of these two countries joining the european union, which is now close at hand and which my group has also fully supported, only makes a real change in the direction of european economic, monetary, budgetary, fiscal and trade policy more urgent and decisive. at 15, it was necessary, at 25 or 27 it becomes vital. mr president, you spoke of an identity crisis. i think you're right. to get out of this, political choices must take precedence over market requirements, because if, in the name of global competition, we simply adapt to globalisation as it is today, there is simply no longer any room for social or solidarity. with mass unemployment, rampant insecurity, the scale of poverty and the glaring inequalities we are experiencing, it would be politically irresponsible and socially explosive to remain fixed on ideas of free competition, restrictions on public spending, social and fiscal dumping and, the icing on the cake, budgetary trickery. we, the elected representatives of our fellow citizens, have a duty to bear witness to the deep unease which, in one form or another, is being expressed from one end of europe to the other. what can parliament do in the coming months to send the positive signals that europeans are looking for? i would make three proposals. firstly, we are going to be judged on our votes on a whole series of draft directives. this week, the one aimed at totally liberalizing rail transport. in the coming weeks, the very emblematic bolkestein directive, which mr barroso has been careful not to throw away with the others. the texts on regional transport, port services, working time and our opinion on the wto negotiations, particularly the general agreement on trade in services, will follow. in each of these cases we would be wise to adopt a clearly anti-liberal and very demanding attitude to public services if we are to meet expectations. secondly, we should take some major political initiatives on major civilization issues. just one example: war and peace. to express our rejection of war, and even more so of the involvement of european countries in such an adventure, we invite to parliament mrs cindy sheehan, the american mother of a soldier killed in iraq, whose cry of pain, truth and humanity is stirring public opinion on both sides of the atlantic. thirdly, and inseparably linked to the first two, we must help to free the expression of our fellow citizens. yes, let us have debates, but real debates, without taboos, in the 27 member states of the enlarged union, on what should change in the union to revive the european dream.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to welcome our new romanian and bulgarian colleagues. i hope they will restore to the french language and culture some of the lustre it has lost here as a result of successive enlargements, particularly with the accession of the countries of northern and central and eastern europe. i do not forget the notable exceptions such as our late colleague, the polishman filip adwent. i would like to welcome in particular our five colleagues and friends from the greater romania party, românia mare, and our bulgarian colleague from the attaka movement. they are coming to the european parliament as observers at a time when turkey is about to begin its accession negotiations on 3 october, despite the fact that turkey was one of the causes of the rejection of the constitution, and without having recognized the republic of cyprus, and even without wanting to do so. i think that with 10% of its population of turkish origin, bulgaria is particularly sensitive to this momentous event. let our colleagues know that they can count on our support in the european parliament to defend the europe of the homelands in the face of destructive globalism and the flood of migration. i note with interest the coup de grâce which mr barroso, president of the european commission, has just dealt to the defunct european constitution. as a consistent democrat, he drew lessons from the french and dutch referendums to bury this liberty-killing text. for once, law meets morality. the opinion of the people is superior to that of the technocrats, despite all the pressures exerted by the great professional consciences. as regards the financial perspective for 2007-13, the franco-british battle over the cap's revenue and budget is likely to continue, unless the community budget is increased beyond 1% of gdp to meet the needs of the ceecs. in this case, we will denounce any retreat or retreat on the part of chirac and the french government on the cap. the british, as loyal allies of the americans, have only two objectives during their six-month presidency: to get turkey's membership on track and to get the famous services directive, known as bolkestein, adopted. we will oppose one and the other. mr chirac has asked the european commission, with a great deal of embarrassment, to intervene in the hewlett packard case, with its 1240 redundancies. he was publicly humiliated and france with him. the commission does not have to intervene in the internal management of undertakings. it is only natural that the defence of french economic and social interests should be decided in paris and not in brussels and geneva. only the french presidential election of 2007, coming after the thunderstorm of 29 may 2005, will mark the real break with euro-globalism and the spirit of renunciation. the break that all sincere europeans are waiting for. it will be the return of national ideas and economic patriotism to the service of the people. with the formidable privilege of seniority, i believe i can be the most convincing spokesman in france and europe.
mr president, i would like to speak on the organization of the agenda simply to draw your attention to our working method. i regret that a piece of legislation of such vital importance for the financing of our economy, which is, i repeat, a piece of legislation, is on the agenda today only from 7.30 p.m. i think we should have put it on another day and another time. i understand the importance of these moments of breathing, of political debate, but i also believe that parliament must be reasonable in its legislative work.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have an agreement at first reading on a very complex text, in which 304 amendments will be adopted without difficulty. that is to say, whether parliament can work in intelligence when it has to. however, the issue of this text, as everyone is aware, is absolutely enormous. it balances between a risk approach and the real issues in terms of competition, whether inside or outside the european union. i have three points to make. the first is that, on the basis of this dossier, everything that can make it possible for the banking sector - and more generally the financial institutions sector - to assess and take better account of risks is in the right direction, provided that it is accompanied by reasonable consolidation and above all by the establishment of effective supervisory mechanisms. that's all the debate we've had about bank size, consolidation within the group and risk assessment. i believe that, behind the way this matter is handled, the question of how to set up a lead supervisor at european level remains absolutely essential and we will have to return to it in the coming years. i would like to say a word about smes. i hope that the solution proposed is the right one and that it will not lead to a shortage of credit for smes. the debate is open, but i personally have doubts about this. the second point, which my colleague john purvis has just mentioned, concerns international relations. i know, commissioner, that you attach great importance to them and, quite frankly, since we have been following this dossier, i have been struck by the imbalance in the way the integration and appropriation of the basle ii agreements are approached. we know the role played by the americans in the definition and negotiation of basel ii and we see today a great question mark over the timetable and the scope of this agreement on the other side of the atlantic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, the comitology that all my colleagues have been talking about. firstly, the commissioner told us that if we did not take these agreements hostage, the markets would not understand. but markets, as you know, do what they want. they will say to us today: 'you must absolutely adopt this text. if you don't, it will be a disaster". and then tomorrow, when they disagree with the way you have implemented level i of the agreement, they will come to us and they will be glad that there is a parliament where we can look back at how the comitology measures have been implemented, whether well or badly. so let's not listen to the markets too much and do our job as legislators. the last point i want to make is that i am delighted that the british presidency has set up a group of friends of the presidency. i think it's a good way to find a deal. i simply regret that the council is not here to take part in this important debate in the interinstitutional debate.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate mr alexander radwan on the quality of his report in a very technical but fundamental area for banking. the draft directive establishes or updates the general safety principles of the banking system, in particular for the solvency of credit institutions. two specific aspects will require further consideration: risk-sharing, in order to contain the proportion of regulatory capital devoted to a single signature in a reasonable way, and the harmonisation of internal control rules to take account of the situation of cross-border banking groups. in this connection, i would have liked, and i tabled amendments to that effect, that the european dimension should be taken more into account for crossborder intra-group lending and consolidated supervision. i do, however, accept that the draft directive, as amended by parliament, realistically strikes the best possible balance between the responsibilities of home and host country regulators for banking groups with crossborder activities. the proposals of the council presidency seem to me to preserve in a pragmatic way the legitimate rights of parliament in the unfortunate absence of a constitution. banks, for their part, have for several years been mobilizing human, financial and technical resources to meet the deadline. the regulatory deadline must therefore be met, whatever the american questions. it is important that the directive can enter into force on the date envisaged. i therefore hope that parliament will adopt the draft submitted to it and that agreement will be reached at first reading.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur for his work. we must support him so that the european parliament can speak out forcefully on this fundamental issue. the report, which is very well balanced, is a good basis for the development of asylum and immigration policy. the european parliament must have a strong position in the formulation of this policy. on the eve of the transition to codecision in the field of asylum, i call on the council to restore the good faith between the european institutions by showing that it is prepared to listen to the european parliament. the council text as it stands does not really allow for harmonisation of asylum policies at european level. on the contrary, it allows too many possibilities for member states to derogate and to make exceptions. and these exceptions make it impossible to reach a good common denominator. it is rather the lowest common denominator that is favoured, the bottom-up approach to asylum policy in europe. we would like to remind you first of all that europe is a land of asylum and that we must preserve this humanitarian tradition. the european asylum policy must first guarantee a high level of protection for asylum seekers by strengthening their fundamental rights. do we even realize how lucky we all are to have been born in europe? the principle of so-called 'super safe' third countries is unacceptable, because it violates the rights of asylum seekers. everyone has the right to an individual application and to an individual examination of his or her application. you can be persecuted in a country that is safe in the first place. history has shown us enough, if only in the 20th century. the safe country principle can be very dangerous if it is not strictly regulated and, as such, it would be unacceptable to end up with 25 different lists. parliament must also be a major player in the definition of this list and we must ensure that this right is respected. what do we want? we ask for a reception that respects the dignity of the people. it should be remembered that the first article of the charter of fundamental rights deals with the right to dignity. visit the refugee detention centres in different member states and you will be inspired! so go visit them and you'll be shocked that we can treat refugees this way. you'll be as ashamed as i was. we need to fix the flaws in the asylum system. we must protect the refugees. we must also speak to our people to explain and make them understand the misery that is driving these refugees to europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we for our part refuse to swallow the vipers that our colleague mentioned. i would like to stress a procedural problem first. this debate is being organised in haste, after an agreement has been signed - even if it is a first step - by the commission. moreover, the council is not present, although it is the council which ultimately holds the agreement in its hands. i therefore feel that the way we work is not serious and that the views of members of parliament are not taken into account as they should be. the substance of the matter is that this agreement, while it is in the interests of the traders and merchants who are exerting considerable pressure to get things moving, is clearly not in the interests of the producers of wines with a protected designation of origin or of consumers. today, the situation is extremely confusing. what you are saying, commissioner, does not correspond to the information we have elsewhere. there is a very strong concern on the ground. how much confidence will european consumers have in labelling, in labels which are likely to be considerably destabilised by this type of agreement? in addition, you are seriously undermining the principles which the european union has always supported in the field of geographical indications. what is happening to wine, which we find unacceptable, may happen to many other products in the future. we wish two things. on the one hand, that the council does its job and clearly states what the mandate given to the commission on this issue is. on the other hand, may the european union be much more assertive in respecting designations of origin, wine-growing practices, the preservation of areas which are really vital to the life of our territories, and of many rural areas throughout the european union, and may it fight to preserve this quality and these designations of origin. otherwise, if we approach the wto negotiations by resigning at the outset, i am very much afraid that we will lose ground again and again in the weeks to come.
mr president, commissioner, i speak for all my people. first of all, in the name of the winegrowers of languedoc-roussillon who have been making wine for 2000 years, since the roman empire, not for a century like california, and who make wine as we make love, as we cultivate the love of beauty, of beauty. i also speak on behalf of all the winegrowers of france, spain, la rioja, hungary, tokay, the wine of kings, the king of wines, italy, greece, all the mediterranean where wine is a fact of civilization, an art of the gods. but you, with your consent, degrade the wine of civilization into an industrial product for commercial use. your munich winery is changing the definition of wine, the nature of wine. it's no longer a natural creation of fermentation, it's a chemical product. you're accepting the chemical, not the oenological, practices of the united states. you accept a coca-cola made with water plus ingredients, sugar, dyes, wood. it is as if the united states were trying to change commissioner fischer boel into a 7% inflatable rubber commissioner. you can see why the united states does not want labels: because they obviously do not want the chemicals to be mentioned. the reach directive will soon be applied to wine. moreover, you accept the theft of 17 denominations, on the pretext that they are semi-generic. champagne is nothing; the chablis, not at all; the sauternes, even less! you're making fraud and counterfeiting official. for five years, the united states will be able to use the false castles, the false fences, in exchange for the peace clause. it is like the uruguay round negotiations, it is like the oilseed agreements: the thief agrees not to drag the stolen vine growers before the wto gendarme. we have already done so, for the agreement with south africa and, at the wto, of course, the producers of chile, australia, california, all the pacific wines will revolt, will demand this precedent. commissioner, i come from a region which invented the great revolts of the 1950s. well, the vine growers of languedoc will tell you no. they will revolt and they may even come to the brussels commission. they were able to stir up the whole of southern france, they will be able to tell you not as violently as necessary because you are attacking them and you are attacking a civilization. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the wine market is facing major challenges. the united states remains a priority market for the european union with 60 million wine consumers and an average increase from 8 to 13 litres per capita per year over the last ten years. last year, the us market grew by 5.6% in volume. france is the third largest transatlantic exporter after italy and australia. in this context, the agreement on wine between the european union and the united states, which concludes the first phase of negotiations begun 20 years ago, should be welcomed. the united states threatened to blackmail european exporters by subjecting them to a heavy certification procedure. so, this autumn's new beaujolais would have been front and center. it would have been subject to additional analytical and certification checks. the agreement also made progress on the aspect of oenological practices. however, european producers consider these control protocols to be insufficient. they are opposed to practices such as flavoring, which is intended to give the wine fruit flavors. it's about the evolution of the definition of wine. they also insist on the protection of geographical names. the commissioner, in the second phase of the negotiations, will therefore have to ensure that the commitments made by the us authorities are respected: to stop using semi-generic wines such as burgundy, chablis, champagne and porto, to improve the protection of geographical indications and labelling. in this global wine market, often carried by the great american merchants, the grape variety has become a brand. i am not against the globalisation of the wine market, but i am against copies, i am against the standardisation of taste, i do not want a chardonnay mcdo. wine accompanies the cuisine, it is the trademark of the region where it was produced, it has the taste of the culture of the land, it symbolizes conviviality and living together. the diversity of appellations reflects the diversity of wines, our cultural diversity. the mutual recognition of geographical indications, that is to say the designation of the place of production, will help to preserve our respective cultural identities, to stimulate our trade with the united states, but above all to encourage european winegrowers who have for years been constantly improving the quality of their production to meet the demands and the pleasure of consumers like us.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i come from the far east of france, a region which produces burgundy, alsace wine - alsace where we are today - and, of course, champagne. i have to make the following remarks to you as the member of parliament for champagne, because what is at stake in today's debate is the beginning of the agreement which you have mentioned, madam commissioner, and which you obviously want to complete. if we too want it to be perfected, it is for the reasons i will explain. in this case, there is an economic necessity. the american market, as has been mentioned several times, is extremely important for europeans. but in this age of globalisation, i would like to place my point of view on the quality level. on a global scale, unesco regularly recognizes a number of our sites and buildings as part of the world heritage. european wines, particularly those from the mediterranean region, as we have just seen, have acquired their noble qualities over the centuries, over the millennia. in an age when, at all important occasions, when a peace agreement is signed, when a family holiday is celebrated, etc., it is wines and quality wines that are used, quality must be recognized. but what has happened in the last few decades? we are seeing an expansion of plantations around the world - in chile, australia, new zealand - and most importantly, and this is what is fuelling the debate this morning, an explosion of "dry canada". wines are produced all over the world, with names on the labels that refer to the grape variety and region of origin - champagne, bordeaux, porto, etc. - and the consumer is led to believe that the bottle he buys is a wine whose origin and quality are those suggested by the label. the agreement you are about to conclude in the coming weeks and months must ensure that consumers all over the world do not feel frustrated or deceived. we are in an age of increasing counterfeiting, in the area of clothing with lacoste, in the area of watches with rolex, in the area of medicines too, unfortunately. it is normal, natural and obligatory for consumers all over the world to be sure that a bottle bearing the words 'alsace wine', 'bourgogne wine', 'champagne wine' or 'porto wine' contains the wine in question. it is a question of the quality of our world heritage, it is a question of the interests of all european wine producers. long live the wines of europe!
we will now begin our voting session which our bulgarian and romanian friends will be hearing for the first time.
mr geremek, out of courtesy to you, i will treat your speech as a personal one, but you cannot reopen the debate at this stage. i give the floor to the rapporteur, mr lehne, again, and ask him not to reopen the debate, we are voting on it.
thank you for that clarification. i'm not taking any more speeches, i'm sorry, but we're in the middle of a vote. i shall therefore be voting on it immediately. - after the vote.
after this short intermission we shall be able to resume our votes, but do not abuse the patience of the president of the sitting.
in writing. at a time when several european countries are plagued by the terrorist threat, it is unthinkable to ask member states to withdraw an initiative to cooperate more effectively in order to prevent, investigate, detect and prosecute the perpetrators and accomplices of terrorist acts. to reject this initiative on the sole ground that it comes from the member states and not from the commission is irresponsible in the face of the issue at stake, the security of our fellow citizens. this report is again guided not by the general interest but by ideological considerations, seeking to deprive the member states of more and more of their powers, without any revision of the treaties, in favour of the commission. in the absence of the people's support after the french and dutch referendums, the supranational institutions of the union seem to be embarking, outside the treaties, on a gradual appropriation of the competences of the member states, as in the judgment of principle delivered on 13 september 2005 by the court of justice which specifically authorises the commission to legislate in criminal matters. finally, in the face of the terrorist threat, what are these delays worth in the face of an alleged breach of community law, proportionality or the presumption of innocence? that is why we voted against this report.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to present my report on the role of territorial cohesion in regional development in a few minutes. it should be recalled that the inclusion of this concept in the policies of the union has been the subject of a recurrent and insistent request from a large number of european regions for several years. the accession of ten new member states, which has resulted in a widening of regional disparities and the emergence of new territorial inequalities, has given a particular expression to this major need. the drafters of the draft constitution for europe understood this well, since article 3 of the draft treaty mentions economic, social and territorial cohesion as one of the union's essential objectives. the problematic fate of the treaty would lead some regional policy makers, particularly at the level of the european commission, to exercise the greatest caution at the mere mention of a necessary territorial cohesion. we do not think that this is justified and i hope, madam commissioner, that you will share our view. the very great geographical, human and cultural diversity of the union's territory, in a relatively small area, represents a unique wealth on our planet, but if we are not careful, it can lead to serious risks of intolerable distortions for those who consider themselves to be its victims. this has unfortunately proved to be true, beyond all our fears, in the referendums in france and the netherlands on the draft european constitution. it is likely that public consultations on the same basis in many other member states would produce the same results. i therefore wanted my report to help answer the questions raised. how can citizens be reconciled with the european project? what is the future of europe? for our europe. one of the answers is provided by cohesion policy, the policy of solidarity which is the original model of the union and distinguishes it from a simple free trade area. in addition to having the necessary resources, which means that it must be taken into account in the financial perspective for 2007-13, it will be important that it takes into account the territorial dimension in all its aspects. territorial cohesion will thus represent an explicit basis, understandable to all europeans, for a coherent approach to the territory of the union. more specifically, for the implementation of territorial cohesion, i would like to indicate some principles and concrete measures. the principles are: the principle of equity between citizens throughout the territory, which implies in particular appropriate accessibility of services of general interest and services of general economic interest; the integration of the territorial dimension in the lisbon and gothenburg strategies; the polycentric development of the european territory; the role to be played by small and medium-sized towns and the connection with the rural world; strengthening all dimensions of territorial cooperation; decentralisation based on the regions that know best the needs and potential of their territories; multi-level governance and the involvement of non-public partners. one of the concrete proposals we are making to the commission is to set up three schemes. first, a mechanism for linking sectoral policies which have a strong impact on the development of territories with regional development policy. secondly, new territorial indicators, alongside gross domestic product, to measure the development of the regions and objectively assess the obstacles to this development. finally, a system for assessing the impact of the various community policies on territorial cohesion. another proposal concerns the preparation of a white paper on the territorial cohesion objective and in particular on how it should be integrated into the national strategic plans of the member states which they are currently implementing. i hope that tomorrow's vote will reflect the broad support of this house for an ambitious territorial cohesion policy.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of myself and my colleagues in the liberal and democratic group, i would like to say to mr guellec and mr marques that we have had the pleasure of working on their report, which is of course very much to our liking. i would like to focus on one of the points raised in mr guellec's report, which has some bearing on mr marques' report, since mr guellec has dealt with the role of urban centres and the surrounding areas. we have been talking about the concept of life pools for a number of years - i myself have been elected as a city councillor in reims, in champagne. the basins of life are the territories that encompass a city, whether small, medium or large, and all the rural territories that surround it at 5, 10, 15, 20 or, in the case of our capital of paris, france, up to 200 kilometres in the outskirts, where a number of people are found who, every day, travel from their place of work to their place of residence. it was therefore essential, in order to achieve the objectives of lisbon and gothenburg, that the european union should place the bulk of its interventions within the framework of harmonious, coherent territorial development. these pools of life, in particular, must play their full part, which is not the case at present. i was talking about traveling; it is clear that in all these areas of life, housing problems arise. housing is more expensive in the city centre, cheaper in the outskirts; people choose to live in the suburbs because it's quieter or because it's cheaper. all this leads to problems of daily commuting. we see villages depopulated a few kilometres from our cities, when in some of our neighbourhoods there are abominable concentrations of people. we find security issues, and i'll pass them along. it is therefore only natural that, in order to achieve our lisbon and gothenburg objectives, we must ensure real coherence in these pools of life, between the city centre, the immediate periphery, the near periphery and the far periphery. these difficulties, can we overcome them without too much effort? the answer is obviously no, given the multiplicity of actors involved. these are housing agencies, employment sector decision makers, and of course policy makers, operating at local, regional and national levels. we know how difficult it is to harmonize the positions of the various political organizations. in this respect, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i believe that the european union has a central role to play at the moment, to act as a catalyst, to ensure in the coming years that all these territories are truly brought into coherence, that they develop harmoniously in these pools of life. finally, mr marques, i said that i had great respect for your report and that we were very much in favour of it. i hope that in all our outermost regions, whether in small towns, in large cities or in any other area, the 1 100 million euros which we hope will be available will enable us to ensure the harmonious development that everyone is hoping for.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to welcome the excellent reports by mr guellec and mr marques. i come from an outermost region and i shall focus on mr marques' report on the enhanced partnership for the outermost regions, because it allows, through substantive work, a very complete review of the european union's actions in these regions. i fully support the rapporteur who, although he finds the commission's latest proposals for the outermost regions promising, nevertheless urges it to exercise even more actively the right of initiative conferred on it by the treaties with regard to cohesion policy, but also to other community policies and more generally to areas of interest to the development of the outermost regions. it seems to me essential to make it clear once again, while everyone is concerned about the financial perspectives and the reform of the union's regional policy for the period 2007-13, that the majority of the derogating measures implemented or proposed for the outermost regions are in no way likely to affect competition or the fundamental principles of community law. the commission has rightly proposed that the programme to compensate for the extra costs of the outermost regions should be endowed with eur 1 100 000 000. however, echoing one of my amendments, which was adopted in the committee on regional development, i insist that these appropriations be allocated exclusively to the outermost regions and that their distribution does not penalise any of them. with reference to another of my amendments adopted in committee, i would like the action plan for the wider neighbourhood to include a specific envelope for transnational and crossborder cooperation and for the long-awaited coordination between the erdf-funded interventions for the outermost regions and those under the edf for their acp or oct neighbours to finally be effective, with or without the budgeting of the edf. in conclusion, i think it is appropriate to state modestly, but without any complexity, my conviction that the outermost regions of the union are as important as its centre. i sincerely hope that this vision will be shared by all member states, old, new and future. in an increasingly global world, enlarged europe has no interest in depriving itself of advanced bases in the atlantic ocean, the caribbean, latin america or the indian ocean. this is the position which our parliament has always defended and which it will no doubt continue to defend. the overseas populations will be most grateful.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while i welcome the work of mr marques, i would like to speak more specifically about the report on the role of territorial cohesion in regional development. i would first like to congratulate mr guellec on his excellent work and his relevant reflection on the concept of 'territorial cohesion', which seems to me to be the heart of community regional policy, which is more and more often called cohesion policy. the constitutional treaty makes territorial cohesion the objective of the european union alongside social and economic cohesion. so even though the ratification process has been difficult, as we know, it is an official recognition of the relevance, timeliness and importance of the territorial features of regional and cohesion policy. the latest enlargement confirms its imperative character. in my view, regional policy is primarily aimed at reducing disparities in development at regional and local level and is thus an indispensable counterweight to the policy of convergence and economic competitiveness. but cohesion is not opposed to convergence and competitiveness, which must be and remain complementary. while ensuring that the development of europe's most dynamic regions is not hindered so that they can play their role as the driving force of the european economy, cohesion policy is primarily intended to help the most disadvantaged and backward regions. the reformed regional and cohesion policy must also be integrated into the lisbon strategy, but above all it must ensure solidarity and equity between the territories and visible continuity of the efforts made previously in the former member states. so, for a harmonious and sustainable development of the european territory, territorial imbalances must be tackled. the diversity of the european area and the handicaps, often cumulative, of certain territories, whether natural, historical or demographic, such as the low population density or the imbalance in the age pyramid and the working population, must be taken into account. the additional costs faced by these regions must be measured and assisted so that these territories have the same opportunities for development as others and the people living there are not penalised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr marques once again shows the interest of the european parliament in the outermost regions. the ligios report on the french overseas departments had, as early as the second term of our assembly, laid the first foundations of the concept of ultraperiphery, a report which inspired programmes already designed to compensate for remoteness and insularity. in the current period of uncertainty about the post-2006 period, parliament's support for the outermost regions is valuable. the report by mr marques is timely in this respect. while the support of the european union has made it possible to achieve many things in our regions lagging behind in development, much remains to be done. it is also the conclusion of the 11th conference of presidents of the outermost regions, which was held on the island of réunion earlier this month, in your presence, madam commissioner for regional development. i was pleading for a change of approach in relations between the european union and the outermost regions. beyond what the european union brings to these regions, it is a question of enhancing what they bring to the european added value. let me give you some examples of the obvious. the outermost regions give the community's maritime area its leading position in the world. the geographical location of kourou in french guiana contributes significantly to the competitive advantage enjoyed by the european space industry. there is the ocean, space, but we could also mention the exceptional biodiversity of the outermost regions, their importance for a better understanding of climate phenomena or their contribution in terms of cultural diversity. the great distance from the continental whole to which the outermost regions are integrated and the geographical proximity of other continents with which the european union has agreements are also sometimes sources of contradictions. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that this dual ownership offers a real prospect for the sustainable co-development of these areas, all of which are facing major challenges. the union's ability to respond to the question of the development of its ultraperiphery will be a testament to its capacity to be a decisive player in a controlled and fair globalisation.
vice-president of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to answer the questions put to me. firstly, as regards the timetable: the commission will decide on the methodology and principles for the organisation of the major project on legal simplification at the end of october. i will present to the commission an action plan, initially covering three years, in the hope that in these three years i will be able to complete the major part of the project. in any case, priorities will have to be set. we will set priorities by starting with those areas where there is a real presumption of over-regulation, because there are so many pieces of legislation. for example, the automotive industry, construction and waste management have already been identified as sectors to be reviewed first. then all the other sectors will follow. in parallel, mrs fischer boel is already working on a fundamental simplification programme for the agricultural acquis. the first package will be presented here later this year. i am very grateful to mr swoboda for his support. i can give you the necessary documents right now, mr president. i have already laid them out for you and for the other groups. these documents will enable you to see the status of each project and the reasons why the commission thinks it should be withdrawn. let me make one more small comment on the media. i do not want to bore the house and i do not want to torment you, but i could read you a list of my own appearances before the european parliament where i informed the european parliament about this project. this started in september 2004 before i was appointed. there were 11 speeches in the european parliament on this subject. the first information has been given to the european parliament before a single word has been spoken in public, although i assume that the european parliament's plenary represents the european public. i am very concerned that i have acted in a 100% correct manner in the information i have given to the european parliament. nor has any information about the contents of the list been given to the media by myself or my staff until this afternoon, and that is until this hour, as i stand here. i have a certain reputation to defend in respect of the european parliament. that's why i wanted to make it clear. you'll get the papers, of course. although it is the commission's responsibility to decide what we do with this list, i would strongly advise that we wait and see what advice parliament gives us and that we take that advice into account in the implementation of this decision. the commission has also agreed to this. i am extremely grateful for this. my concern for the economic future of small and medium-sized enterprises in europe was one of the main reasons why i initiated the project in the first place. i am perfectly aware that the big companies, the big companies, can deal with the rules relatively easily. they're paying for their own departments. the smaller the enterprise, the greater the burden of bureaucratic costs and the greater the difficulty of planning and implementing investment and realising potential growth. i can therefore assure you that everything we do here will take the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises fully into account. we will of course also involve representatives of smes in external expertise. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. i am also very grateful for your reference to national implementation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the english language has a beautiful word for this, "gold plating". i see it as part of the project to educate the european public that this must stop and that european legislation cannot be used as a kind of protective screen behind which to implement national projects that one does not dare to implement otherwise. i think that's the answer to the questions. i thank the three speakers for the political support they have given me and i offer them close and trusting cooperation on this project, which affects all three institutions in a special way.
mr president, commissioner, we agree that we should legislate better. it is obvious that we want to reduce the cumbersome bureaucracy and give our companies a little oxygen. but how do you envisage working with the european parliament, which is a co-legislator? even if the treaty does not provide for this, in view of the interinstitutional agreement, how do you see the involvement of our parliamentary committees? as regards the impact study, which we have called for, it must not become a self-justification of the commission's proposal or a justification for doing nothing. and what about the impact study on the amendments tabled by the european parliament? finally, as regards simplification, which is very important, we must ensure that it does not lead to deregulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social, environmental and consumer protection acquis is respected. so we'll be very careful. better lawmaking should not mean less lawmaking. what is the place of standardization? the european parliament derives its legitimacy from codecision. we must not reduce its legislative power.
member of the commission. i am satisfied that there is no conflict of interest in relation to the study that the commission has commissioned. i am satisfied with the independence and integrity of the work of the contractor, the swiss institute, and the sub-contractor, the centre for the study of gambling at salford university. the relationship with contributing companies to which the honourable member refers is one that is common to university departments throughout the world. i am assured that donations from contributing companies, whether they be bookmakers or national lotteries, are unconditional donations. i am satisfied with the declaration of the absence of conflict of interest given to the commission. i can assure the honourable member that my services will give the fullest attention to how this study is carried out and will ensure that the contractor fully meets the award criteria set out in the tender specifications. the honourable member refers to, and i quote, 'the indisputable impact that the study will have on the rules governing the gambling sector in the future'. firstly i would like to remind the honourable member that the study, which is looking at a wide variety of gambling services, will report factually on the various laws applicable in the member states and on economic aspects. this is a fact-finding exercise and the contractor will not advise the commission on its future policy options. finally, i can assure the honourable member that i will not be taking any policy decisions purely on the basis of this study. the study will assist us all in gaining a better understanding of the issues involved, but it is my intention to consult fully before taking any decision. the report of the contractor will be given to all interested parties and will be published on the commission's website. in addition, the contractor's findings will be the subject of a public hearing, which is scheduled to take place in early november, at which the views of the interested parties, including the honourable member, will be most welcome.
i thank you for your precise answer, commissioner. i would simply point out that you do not refute the information contained in my question and that is precisely what is extremely worrying. even if the study by the swiss institute of comparative law is only a preliminary study of all the systems, it is quite clear that entrusting all the economic aspects to a university centre whose board of directors includes companies such as stanley leisure, gala group, london clubs international or camelot group seems to me to be a rather considerable departure from the necessary objectivity.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank the chairman of our committee, paolo costa, and all our colleagues, whether they are the rapporteurs - one of them spoke - or the fictitious rapporteurs or the coordinators, for the very intensive and remarkable work that the european parliament has done. i listened carefully to mr jarzembowski, who mentioned a frenchman who was hostile to the package. i don't know who that is. he probably knows him. i don't know him. that is why i have insisted that we vote on all the texts today and forward them to the council. parliament has done its job and the package is ready. we will pass it on to the british presidency tomorrow and i hope that the british presidency will take a decision and that we can, if possible - perhaps we should not be utopian - close this complicated dossier under mr blair's presidency. the package is on its way, i simply wished that we could vote today and not delay the work that has been done by the european parliament. there is no reason for this because there is at least one text which is of some urgency, namely the text on driving licences. not because it has received a fairly broad agreement in the committee on transport but simply because the liberalization is under way. since 15 march 2003 international rail freight has been open and we need this text today to train drivers in international rail transport. i would also like to say that my report is quite exemplary, and i hope that tomorrow's message from parliament will be just as exemplary. and why is he exemplary? because, first of all, it is a social signal, whereas up to now we have essentially sent economic signals or signals of liberalization. i have always argued here that rail transport should be everyone's business, including railway workers, and i think that this will not work if railway workers do not feel concerned about the europe of the railways. we have set up a railway agency in which we will bring in the social partners; we must ensure that the social partners feel involved in the investment we are making in each other's rail transport future. that is why, as this text was the subject of a bilateral agreement between employers and trade unions, which is very rare at european level, we must now give it a legislative extension. it is a fairly simple exercise, since the work is done, of transposing into positive european law a social, historical agreement which calls for others, perhaps one day collective agreements which will make it possible to ensure that railway workers all feel concerned by the opening up of the railway networks. that is why i am pleading for the widest possible agreement tomorrow on my report, which the committee has made many improvements to, which may seem to be minor but are in fact important. first by bringing an extension. we believe that all workers should eventually have an international driving licence on all networks if they wish to do so. every national driver has the vocation to become an international driver if he so wishes. i would also like to clarify a point. we have clearly set out definitions for drivers and cabin crew, referring cabin crew to a future commission proposal for a text, based on the work of the agency, which will be open and consultative work. the commission has also made a great effort to ensure that training is carried out in a precise manner, that each worker can capitalise on his experience and that training is financed, since tomorrow some drivers trained by one railway company may be able to transfer to another. the commission has also proposed that the dates be aligned and the date for transposition be accelerated. that is the substance of the report which our committee is presenting to you. now, a few final remarks on the other texts. i think that mr sterckx's report on passenger rights is absolutely essential. there is no reason to enshrine passenger rights in air transport, not in rail transport. and since there are very great disparities between the member states and also malfunctions, particularly in my country, i am glad that mr sterckx is proposing a report which goes in this direction and i hope that the resistance which exists in the council will be removed. i am of course more reserved about mr zīle's report, without offending the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job, simply because the railway companies are committed to the contractual relationship and the goods are much more heterogeneous than the passengers. it's not the same to carry this or that. finally, as regards mr jarzembowski's report, i am personally more reserved. i voted to liberalize freight because freight wasn't working. as far as passenger transport is concerned, i have the impression that it is a matter of greed between a few large companies on national networks. and what bothers me most is the cabotage. in fact, we know very well that there is no market that goes from paris to rome. on the other hand, there is a market between paris and lyon, between lyon and marseille, and that is what the big companies covet. i am also concerned about the situation of small countries, countries with limited geography, whose national lines are in fact on international lines which may disappear tomorrow or be absorbed by large operators such as the sncf or deutsche bahn. and that's why these big companies are so interested. i would like to conclude by saying that, for me, if we think in terms of the transport market, in this case - and this has never been denied for ten years - the road is the winner. we must think in terms of transport policy and the main thing is not simply competition within the railway system, as has been the obsessional aim for years, but the development of the conditions of competition between road and other modes of transport. until this issue is resolved, the railway will decline, as it is declining today for open freight.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, other members of my group will be taking part in the debate, in particular my colleague erik meijer. i shall confine myself to explaining the meaning of our amendment rejecting the proposal for a directive which is wrongly called 'development of community railways'. we are all of us of the opinion that it is high time that transport arrangements on our continent were put in order. this must be done in accordance with criteria to which our fellow citizens are attached: safety, the environment, social and territorial cohesion, public service, and their corollary: harmonized social regulations for the employees concerned. the trade union organizations concerned have very detailed proposals on all these aspects. they must be our natural partners in designing and implementing these types of projects. in this context, the desire to achieve a rebalancing in favour of rail, as in the case of waterways, is in every respect legitimate and europe is naturally a relevant area for dealing with these problems. the question is: why should the achievement of these objectives require the full liberalization of rail transport? this would at least merit a serious assessment of the various existing experiences and the first effects of opening up to competition before any new measures are taken. this is what parliament explicitly demanded when it adopted the first 'rail' package. this specific request was never followed by any action. why would you do that? the disastrous record of the privatisation of the railways in britain is not mentioned. it is very easy to forget, mr barrot, that the first private french train, the connex, does not bring any additional traffic but merely occupies a place previously held by the public company sncf. the reduction in the diversity of services offered in the freight transport sector, or the abandonment of routes considered unprofitable for passengers, in the perspective of opening up to competition, is also ignored. nor is there any concern about the blocking of projects which are actually likely to improve european transport, such as the lyon-turin link. no, you can't! we're just liberalizing, that's all there is to it. it is against this dogmatism of the 'all-purpose market' that our group stands to affirm the need for a public and pluralistic evaluation of the experiences in progress and to express our choice in favour of cooperation rather than competition in the field of rail transport in europe. our group calls on all our members to vote in favour of amendment no 14, which rejects the proposal for a directive on the liberalization of rail transport.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the railway issue is of interest to all the people and member states of the european union. geography has long shaped the transportation and politics of peoples. today, technology and the construction of major infrastructures are enriching the field and in turn conditioning the future of economic and cultural exchanges. in this area we have a role to play: to build bridges between nations, to promote trade. but not just any exchange! we need an exchange which enriches national specificities, because it is the complementarities which justify and underpin the usefulness of the exchange. we are glad to have texts which promote such free trade between sovereign peoples. yet, when we read the three reports before us, three simple principles that govern the order of nations, we seem to be mistreated. first, the principle of subsidiarity, which does not always seem to be respected. in transport, as elsewhere, we believe that whatever can be done at the level closest to the action should be done at that level. and only the strictly necessary will be reserved for the upper level. we do not understand why the sterckx report, which correctly quotes the international convention, cotif, is so quick to clutter the text with details of inflation which should be dealt with under that convention. we should be reviving this convention. in this case, the increase in the rights of persons with reduced mobility is an exception and is necessary. however, this requirement could be the subject of a simple injunction in principle addressed to cotif. in addition, why is there not a clearer distinction between the training of drivers and that of flight attendants in the excellent savary report, which also deals with the training of personnel at the same level? why not stick to different qualifications, since the jobs are so different? the second principle that we feel is being abused is respect for sovereignty. we cannot allow a necessary international transport organization to become a trojan horse to invade national law. the amended sterckx report systematically substitutes the term 'all passengers' for the term 'international rail passengers'. we cannot accept this subordination of national standards to international standards. a third principle that is abused is that of caution. it is imprudent when, in mr jarzembowski's report, amendment no 8 proposes a time limit of only three years for the introduction of major changes. you have to give time to time. to go too fast is to fail. it is also imprudent in the sterckx report to try to cover everything in one file, disability, ticketing, compensation in the event of an accident, penalties for poor service. it's not relevant to deal with everything. it is unwise not to state clearly that the railways must be subordinated first to freight and first to long-distance freight. it is unwise not to include these proposals in the report on highly competitive modes of transport beforehand. in conclusion, we acknowledge the commissioner's hard and worthwhile work but we remain once again doubtful in the face of such an avalanche of standards and the effectiveness of the methods of this parliament.
mr president, i shall not philosophize about the concept of a package, but i can tell you that my group will vote enthusiastically on the sterckx report and the savary report, and it looks forward to doing so tomorrow. on the other hand, the debate on mr jarzembowski's proposal was much more intense and ambiguous, because we are not in favour of the status quo. let me be clear: we really want to strengthen european rail transport, because we want to promote the safest and most energy- and space-efficient transport, and therefore the most sustainable. that seems quite clear to me. the question we are asking is: will this be achieved by liberalizing international rail passenger transport under the conditions set out in this report? that's where the questions start to come up. will we really get a transfer from road and air to rail? will we guarantee a safer and more accessible service for citizens, and better social and territorial cohesion? to find out, we could still make a serious evaluation. we have experience in the member states of opening up passenger transport to competition. we have the first and second packages. let's take a closer look at what's happening in terms of quality, actual road-to-rail transfer, price, safety. in short, there are many questions. we have a lot of questions about the compatibility of putting national railways into competition by cabotage with the public service obligations as laid down in the july regulation. we wonder, as do other members, whether we are not going to go from a monopoly to an oligopoly in certain countries, or whether we are not going to see the emergence, as in air transport, of low-cost airlines, at the expense of working conditions and safety. in short, the majority of my group cannot support mr jarzembowski's proposals.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. every time a reasonable person gets this upset, there's something going on. otherwise they wouldn't be upset. maybe we can figure out a few things: so far we have not enlarged the european union, but we have united it. the first real debate on enlargement is about turkey. because nobody says that the accession of poland - however you vote - or the accession of the czech republic or the accession of hungary is an extension of the european idea - that this was a duty, and it was also right to take in these countries after the collapse of communism. and now we have a new dimension indeed. it's about the expansion. you can choose one way or the other, it's a new dimension. (mr posselt speaks without a microphone) shut the fuck up! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the answer to this question may vary, but it must be answered in the interests of the european union, in the interests of the people of europe, and not in the interests of emotional, cultural or racial resentment. we can't do that! we don't want to do that! (mr brok speaks without a microphone) if you're not, if you don't feel meant, then you're not meant. i think that is mr de villiers. stop blaming everything on yourself. you're not the center of the world! in europe, at the moment, there is an argument based on feelings towards turkey, which are racist resentments against islam. not all those who are against turkey have these arguments. but those feelings are being exploited. so every opponent must ask himself the question: what is he provoking with his argument? that is why i think that the argument that europe must change first, that europe must do its homework, that europe needs a constitution is correct, and nobody denies that. europe cannot expand as it is today. i also have my doubts about whether europe can continue to unite with croatia under the terms of nice. this is a legitimate debate. but the other debate, whether europe can take in a country that is predominantly muslim, is a nonsensical debate. we have more muslims in europe today than there are belgians. we already got it. the question of european islam is with or without turkey. let's not discuss this. it's the third largest religion here in europe. whether i like it or not as an atheist is another matter. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey, and the turkish government has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey. if so, i say welcome! if not, we'll have to think of something else. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say to mr brok that not all arguments against turkey are racist, but those who can ride a wave of racism against turkey must therefore rethink their arguments. i insist on it. if you feel hit, it's your problem, and if you don't feel hit, it's good for you.
mr president, i would like to remind you of the rules of procedure. i would ask mr cohn-bendit to withdraw his remark, which i consider extremely serious and which is not...
for the gue/ngl group mr president, on the eve of these discussions, which are to take place over a long period, it is necessary to recall very clearly the non-negotiable points on which the european negotiators cannot therefore compromise, whatever the pressure they may be subjected to. if these points are known, i think it is not superfluous to recall them today. our group has done so in its motion for a resolution. the first is the effective application of democratic norms, such as the effective respect for internationally recognized civil and human rights. this naturally includes the civil, political and cultural rights of minorities, and first of all of the kurds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe it is essential that turkey should definitively renounce any idea of a military solution to the kurdish question, that it should recognize the political dimension of the conflict and that it should promote reconciliation, particularly with the kurds who have renounced the use of arms. it is in the same spirit that we want to get turkey, in the face of all forms of nationalism, to face up to its history and to recognize the armenian genocide. it is symptomatic that the unacceptable trial of orhan pamuk is simultaneously about the kurdish question and the armenian question. finally, it is a question, in the near future, of clarifying, at the first stage of the negotiations, the recognition of the republic of cyprus, the withdrawal of the occupying troops from the north of the island and, immediately, the full implementation of the commitments contained in the protocol extending the turkey/european union customs union to the new member states, in particular the republic of cyprus. this means, of course, that the free access of cypriot ships and aircraft to turkish ports and airports must be respected. there are no excessive or unnecessary conditions in this list. these measures are in essence in line with the expectations of the democratic forces in turkey themselves. they want, as we do, to create the conditions for their country's future membership of the union. these negotiations are an exceptional lever for the turkish and kurdish democratic forces to accelerate the changes they consider necessary. so our being alert is an asset to them!
mr president, a few days, a few hours before the scheduled opening of negotiations, turkey has still not recognized the republic of cyprus and the turkish judiciary has once again banned the holding of a conference on the armenian genocide, which turkey has still not recognized. despite these serious breaches of the duty of memory and of democratic principles, the european institutions are acting as if nothing had happened and are confirming to us that the game is on: the european union will start accession negotiations with ankara on 3 october. i would like to reply to all those who say that the opening of these negotiations does not prejudge the outcome in any way. that is not true, and for at least two reasons. the first is that these negotiations are open explicitly with a view to accession, not with a view to a privileged partnership. to say otherwise is to tell stories. the second reason is that, of course, the opening of negotiations will lead to accession. for several years, the various chapters of membership will be opened, processed and then closed one after the other. but the conclusion is already known: no country will, after a long process, take responsibility for saying no on its own. to say otherwise is still to tell stories. europe is now going through the most serious crisis in its history and there is no plan or prospect on the table, either from the council or the commission, except, if i believe the recent statements, to turn our backs on political europe. the only subject on the agenda is the enlargement to turkey, as if in this confused europe the perpetual flight forward had now replaced vision. europe will need a real reconstruction tomorrow. we will stand by all those who want to rebuild the european project so that it can finally be a political and democratic europe. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, madame de keyser, for this version of love. that was a nice way of putting it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the british presidency opened with a speech by the prime minister full of seduction and ambition. it is now clear that the only significant decision in this crucial second half of 2005 will be the opening of negotiations with turkey. the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty, and it is not the council that is responsible for the decisions it takes. because that's what it's all about. the european union we want is not the one that the presence of turkey would force us to make. there is an incompatibility between our political union and the destiny which this great nation state which we respect wants to pursue on a sovereign and nationalist basis. and since december 15 last year, the situation has become even worse than we have known it. it is clear that the negotiations will take place, as we have always said, on turkey's terms and not on europe's terms. the freedoms, the rights, the non-recognition of the armenian genocide, the situation in the kurdish country and finally the refusal to recognize cyprus. how can we say that, after the council's decision at the end of last year, we have now better fulfilled the conditions for the opening of negotiations? that is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that this parliament, which represents the peoples, sends a strong signal by postponing the decision on the ankara protocol and saying that negotiations cannot be opened in the conditions in which they are being held today. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, unlike my predecessor, i remain, like many of us, convinced that turkey's accession to the union is essential to ensure reconciliation, peace and security throughout the region, to contribute to the democratization and development of that country and, perhaps above all, to show a muslim country that if it respects human rights, it has its place in a union of democratic countries. but the task is very difficult, as this debate shows, because there are hostile forces advancing and working towards failure. mr commissioner, mr president, this is a case study in the political difficulty of making decisions which are fraught with short-term complications and whose positive effects can only be seen 10 or 15 years later. i therefore request that you give the task of explaining the text a great deal of importance and time. of course, we must make the difficulties public, such as the unilateral turkish statement on cyprus just mentioned, and the recent cases of convictions for offences of opinion. but we must also stress the progress made and explain the delays. i cannot help thinking that the statement on cyprus, which we regret, is a response from turkey, which is expected by its opinion, to the rejection by the greek cypriots of the un draft solution. this is not an excuse, but it leads to a better understanding of the situation and, above all, to urgently addressing the un on the need to intensify its work and resume its mediation. and then, above all, we must emphasize much more than is being done today the meaning of the academic conference held in istanbul recently on the armenian problem. it's a taboo that's finally fallen; it took the prime minister's very firm commitment. this does not mean that turkish public opinion is ready for recognition now, but at least it is an essential step that is beginning. mr president, commissioner, the process will fail if the negotiations you are conducting and the progress they are bringing about are ignored. describe, explain, you must fight on two fronts! the front of your turkish partners and that of european public opinion. fight on both and never forget it!
this is not a proposal from angela merkel, which britain is taking advantage of.
mr president, i am asking for the negotiations to be cancelled outright, which are due to begin on 3 october. i ask the french government to lift france's veto on the morning of 3 october and to leave the negotiating table. if negotiations begin on 3 october, the process will be difficult to reverse and europe will run two risks: first, to disgrace itself by negotiating with a country which refuses to recognise one of the member states of the european union. the second is to dissolve. the european union is unfortunately not able to solve its problems today, particularly those of relocation and immigration. it would thus deal with additional relocation and immigration problems. that is why i call on all sides to take a clear stand and i address mr cohn-bendit, who has called out the sceptics on the question of turkey. i ask him the following question: mr cohn-bendit, are you on the side of the turks who continue to deny the armenian genocide? (applause) i would like to thank
your questions will be forwarded to mr cohn-bendit and the french government respectively.
mr president, it is inconceivable to want to make europe with and for europeans and not listen to their opinion on turkey's candidacy. the citizens have asked for a break. the dark europe of our heads of state and government is once again showing that it has nothing to do with it. it's a great arm of democracy. nothing will therefore be able to stop the accession process of turkey, the accession of a country which does not have the courage to ask forgiveness for the genocide of the armenians. this country does not recognize the existence of our cypriot friends. the council has told us that this recognition is a fundamental element. i think it's a very important part of the job. this country still experiences torture, discrimination against women, does not respect minorities and freedom of religion; he has no business in the european union. who are we kidding? to reassure public opinion, the council is telling us today that turkey will be very different as a result. or we are told that the negotiating conditions will be so difficult that they will make the negotiations fail. what hypocrisy! and what do the turkish people think? and europe in all of this. europe is in crisis, and this crisis is serious. his institutions don't allow him to function properly at 25. she still doesn't have a budget for the future. i am grateful to the british presidency, whose only record will be that of having been subjected to american pressure for turkey's accession. this europe refuses to decide on its borders, where is our european integration project? we are told that membership is necessary for our economy and our security. well, then let us propose to turkey a strategic partnership for a strong cooperation project with this first crown of europe which is russia, our new neighbours in the east, turkey and the maghreb. turkey has no intention of joining the european union. the truth requires courage and determination to demand that negotiations be opened so that this partnership can be established. unfortunately, europe continues to run ahead with a cowardice that our citizens can no longer accept. (applause) i would like to thank
if you wish to intervene under rule 145, you have a maximum of three minutes.
mr posselt, i must interrupt you, this is not a personal matter but a continuation of the debate which we cannot resume.
the debate is closed. i have received six motions for resolutions. the commission has not yet received any comments from the applicant. we adjourn the sitting until the time for the vote. the following shall be considered as written declarations:
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament is today preparing to give its assent to the extension of the ankara agreement to the ten new member states of the european union. the national front mps refuse to be associated with it. the turkish government stressed that the signing of the protocol in no way constituted recognition of the republic of cyprus. in other words, it denies any legal existence to a country which is a full member of the europe it wants to establish. in the face of this exclusion, the council's statement of 21 september is a real scandal. the council draws no conclusions from the turkish government's position. it merely asks that in 2006 ankara fulfils these commitments towards all the countries of the european union. but in the meantime, the turkish reserve clause will have its full effect! the only possible response would be not only to call into question the signing of the protocol but also to give up definitively the opening of accession negotiations with turkey, which are clearly not the right way for calm and mutually beneficial relations.
in writing. a few days before the opening of the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union, meps from six political groups consider that turkey has fulfilled the final conditions for the start of these negotiations. it is absolutely appalling to see these elected 'europeans' compromise themselves in lies, dishonor and submission. is it to please a certain pseudo-globalist elite, to defend some obscure economic interests or to submit to the political will of the united states of america? from the machiavellian angle, can this kind of attitude effectively ensure a successful re-election of such an "enlightened conservative" or such a "progressive"? the reality is that these "leaders" do not listen to their constituents but despise them. european opinion clearly says no to turkey's entry. it would be totally irresponsible for an otherwise poor asian country with a muslim culture to join an unstable union with an uncertain institutional and economic future. it is not enough for turkey to recognise cyprus, an occupied european territory, to be able to join the union. turkey should not join the european union simply because it is not a european state. the need for good neighborliness does not imply common housing.
in writing. the european parliament is therefore about to vote on the legislative resolution on the conclusion of the additional protocol to the agreement establishing an association between the european economic community and turkey. although turkey still refuses to acknowledge its responsibility for the armenian genocide, and does not recognise the republic of cyprus by continuing to occupy the north of the island, the heads of state, the commission and parliament are preparing to circumvent the opinion of the people in contempt of their sovereignty. the globalist machine is unwaveringly on its way to devising a policy that will prove disastrous for the economic and social balance and for peace in europe. in a period marked by islamic terrorism, when fundamentalist networks are being dismantled in certain suburbs and at a time when our republican laws and our principle of secularism are in conflict with the development of radical islam on our soil, how can europe take responsibility for imposing on the peoples of europe a nation whose government is islamist? in this case, should we not instead apply the precautionary principle by proposing another partnership? this accession will only strengthen a communitarian logic which is preparing the lebanonization of europe.
in writing. in endorsing the principle of turkey's membership of the european union, the european parliament remains deaf to the voice of the people who are expressing more and more reservations about this new enlargement. the time has come to set clear and coherent boundaries for the union rather than to continue this endless flight forward. no serious political construction (except the constitution of a large market) can do without defining this territorial contour. but nothing is being done about it. i have been advocating for years the establishment of several circles in the construction of europe: a first federal circle, highly integrated, agreeing on social and fiscal convergences; a second circle integrating the countries of eastern europe and allowing a more gradual strengthening of our policies; and finally a circle of close and strengthened cooperation and partnership in which turkey would find its full place. i do not see any reason why countries such as the maghreb, with which many member states have close links, should not be treated with the same consideration. what is being proposed to us has nothing to do with this project but confirms the way in which the european project is being diluted in a vast free trade area.
in writing. i am convinced that membership of the eu means adherence to certain values, particularly in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. that is why turkey must democratize itself in depth. the prospect of its joining the eu can bring about positive developments towards a real democracy, not just a virtual one, which recognises and respects its minorities, notably the kurdish population, towards greater respect for human rights, ending the violations of freedom of expression such as the recent conviction of the writer orhan pamuk, towards a fresh look at the dark pages of its history, with the recognition of the armenian genocide. however, on the eve of the deadline of 3 october - the date on which the council is to decide on the opening of accession negotiations - the situation is far from satisfactory. on the contrary, turkey is obstinate, even radical, on at least two points: the recognition of cyprus, which cannot be the subject of any negotiations, and the obstinate refusal to address the question of the armenian genocide, which i consider to be a prerequisite for accession. that is why i tabled, with others, two amendments to supplement a particularly silent resolution on the armenian genocide. it is up to the european parliament to remind a modern turkey that is on the road to democracy of its duty to remember. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. by formally opening accession negotiations with turkey, the european heads of state and government will be making a decision for which they will have to answer to the peoples and to history. the authorities in my country are, however, entrusted with a clear mandate from the people they are supposed to represent: on 29 may, the french people said no to the european constitution and no to the project of enlargement to include turkey. today the u.m.p. representatives in this parliament are concerned about the dangers of an "autistic" europe, the danger of a divorce between the people and the european project. what a discovery ! do they remember that they regularly voted in favour of turkey in the pre-accession appropriations? do they remember that they sit in the european people's party alongside mr erdogan's islamist akp? do they know that the man who holds the key to this case is the first of them, jacques chirac? this collective lie, which is to say that turkey must join the union, is unworthy because each one silently hopes that the other will say no and take responsibility for the break. that is why, on behalf of the french people, we are solemnly appealing to the president of the republic to veto the opening of these negotiations.
in writing. we have emphasized on many occasions that turkey is not a european country by geography, history, culture, language or religion. in the face of such evidence, confirmed by the treaties, one can only conclude that the european leaders are blind. only the european peoples with the common sense that their leaders lack have long understood that turkey in europe was the end of the european adventure and above all the rapid islamization of european society. the turks, who are themselves provocateurs, refuse to recognize the republic of cyprus on the grounds that they occupy part of it in violation of international law, not to mention the armenian genocide of 1915. the duty of memory so dear to our great western consciences has not reached them. in their new penal code, referring to this same armenian genocide or the occupation of the northern part of cyprus is punishable by imprisonment. in these circumstances, and without even mentioning the tragic fate of the christian minorities, it is indecent to open accession negotiations on 3 october with a large country in asia minor.
in writing. the debate on turkey on wednesday 28 september was clear on the speeches and applause. it's no on all the benches. the speakers mentioned "armenia", "the violation of human rights", "the light years separating two civilizations", "the occupation of part of european territory by a foreign army in cyprus"... even the french mp jacques toubon, who was very much in favour of chirac, went there in opposition. we have heard an englishman offer the turks a privileged partner status so interesting that he claims it for britain. the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty, and the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty. here, the representatives of the peoples of the nations of europe say no from cervantes to lepanto, from lord byron to missolongy, from the greek children of the catacombs who practised their god in fear, from paintings and poems, from delacroix to victor hugo, to the empire of massacres and abductions, and the martyrs of the "midnight express".
in writing. on 23 september 2005 the turkish court of justice banned a symposium on the armenian genocide. unfortunately, this ban shows that the turkish government authorities are still keeping this debate in the dark and in complete illegality. the force of the present, and more importantly that of history, then obliges us to reaffirm that the peoples of europe will not ignore this question. i am therefore sad to have to repeat what i said on 6 october 1999, since the situation has not changed at all. the european parliament's resolution of 18 june 1987 stressed four points which constitute unavoidable obstacles to the accession negotiations with turkey: (1) the turkish government's refusal to recognise the armenian genocide; (2) its reluctance to respect international law in its disputes with greece; (3) the continuation of turkish occupation troops in cyprus; (4) the denial of the kurdish fact that the armenian genocide had occurred; (5) the fact that the turkish government had not yet accepted the armenian genocide; (6) the fact that the turkish government had not yet accepted the armenian genocide; (7) the fact that the turkish government had not yet accepted the armenian genocide; and (8) the fact that the turkish government had not yet accepted the armenian genocide. the armenian question cannot be forgotten in the course of these negotiations. i firmly refuse. the european union is strong enough to impose a significant change of attitude on turkey if it wants to join us in accordance with our rules and values.
in writing. the record of turkey's democratic transition, despite the efforts made, remains a deficit. the recognition by the turkish government of cyprus and the armenian genocide remain preconditions for the continuation of negotiations after 3 october. the eu will also need to remain particularly vigilant to the human rights situation. the situation of women in turkey remains a cause for concern and the turkish government must make a greater commitment to reducing inequalities between men and women. freedom of expression is still not won. the eu must try to put pressure on ankara to ensure that the conditions for the viability of the public and democratic debate are met. therefore, as this is an open process, the outcome of which cannot be guaranteed in advance, and as all 25 member states will have a right of veto at any time during the negotiations, it would be appropriate to provide for an alternative to accession by defining the conditions of the privileged partnership now. that is why i voted against this resolution, rejecting this forced march towards turkish membership.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and would like to join in the compliments to my colleague alexander radwan for the excellent work he has done with the members of the relevant parliamentary committee on this important subject of regulatory capital requirements for banks, to take account of recent developments in financial markets. it had become necessary to ensure consistency between economic capital and regulated capital in a logic of international convergence of the measurement of these financial data (bale ii). nevertheless, the undersigned asks whether the time has not come for the financial community of credit institutions, under the auspices of the ecb and in liaison with the competent authorities of the member states responsible for the supervision of banking companies, to consider the means to be used to accelerate the creation of the money supply necessary for the economic development of europe, and in particular within the euro area. the aim is to transform the euro, beyond its practical, monetary and financial success, from a technical currency into a political currency for the economic development of europe.
in writing. having voted in favour of this text, i join in congratulating my colleague bert doorn on the excellent work he has done with the committee responsible. in order to accompany the necessary confidence in companies and their governance systems, it was very important to provide the european union with rules in this area, based on international standards based on best global practices. aspects relating to the independence of auditors are decisive for the quality of controls. in particular, it became urgent to define the concept of network. finally, the undersigned will be very attentive and will ask that the question of the auditors' liability be examined, since it is unthinkable that they could be liable for their work without limitation and therefore without insurance.
in writing. i will vote against the report by mr jarzembowski which marks a new stage in the deregulation of rail transport. the 'liberalisation' of freight was already a threat to railway public services, but the switch to passenger services is unacceptable and has serious consequences for users and the development of europe's territory. in order to ensure better organization of international traffic, the commission and the report open up competition on the most profitable railway lines in each country, thus depriving the public services in the member states of the resources necessary for the equalization of fares and the development of the territory (less profitable lines, etc.). while in many countries of the european union the operation of passenger lines is of high quality, this decision will jeopardize their future, reduce public investment capacity.
in writing. this september we are voting on a 'railway package'. but for the railway workers, the users, the public service, the stations in our small rural towns, it is not a "gift package". the concern about an international certificate for train drivers, the talk about competition on the rail and road, the desire for a european status for passengers is very good. but in france, the tgv will not arrive in nice until 2020, two years after the arrival of a permanent space station on the moon. the stations are closing or deteriorating, as in sainte-gabelle, a few rails from toulouse, paris bordeaux, pau, madrid, as the paris montpellier perpignan barcelona, still do not exist. thousands of kilometres of railway track are no longer maintained, forcing ters to run at 80 km/h instead of 120 km/h. in tarascon on ariège, the station does not open until 3 pm for a train, the carol-toulouse tower, which leaves at 2:50 pm... so as rail europe degrades into british railways, the emergency is a massive rail plan to finally connect the 25 european capitals with high-speed lines within the next decade.
in writing. the 25th anniversary of solidarnosc should be an opportunity for us to remember that half of europe, handed over to stalin's ussr, suffered for almost 50 years under communist terror. we must not only celebrate the courage and memory of the workers of gdansk, and the role their strike played in the fall of the iron curtain. we must also celebrate the courage of the insurgents in berlin, prague and budapest, crushed by soviet tanks, the courage of all those who fought for their freedom and the independence of their nation, despite persecution, arbitrary arrests, psychiatric internments and deportations to the gulag. we must remember that communism is the bloodiest ideology in history and that it has caused 100 million deaths. and we must not forget that in the west, during those years of lead, too many leaders and politicians closed their eyes or remained silent, when they were not complicit. their successors are doing the same today with the last great marxist dictatorship on the planet, forgetting the deaths of tien an men and the re-education camps.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, so what was to happen happened. there has been no real reform of the un, there will be no european seat on the security council, a point on which everyone is silent, whereas this was, it must be said, the union's main hope at this summit. one of the consequences of this failure is that the european union, which will have no foreign minister and no common foreign policy, will remain a kind of international forum without external visibility. all this was obvious, despite the balanced considerations which mrs ferrero-waldner has just given us, who could have, by the way, since she is speaking on french soil, spoken in french; she doesn't listen to me anyway, which she knows how to do. if the so-called european machine had any sense of its own importance, we would have spared ourselves these long debates over the vacuum of the so-called european seat which will join in our closets the thick heaps of our lost illusions. but let us reflect on this failure anyway, because it should warn us, as the failure of the constitution, or the european deconstitution, has done on a larger scale, of the narrow limits within which our pretensions can fit. the impossibility of reforming the un, the unpredictable impossibility which we had foreseen in our previous speeches on the subject, was itself part of the conditions of international action. what governs and will always govern international life is the preeminence of sovereignty. if, within states, there can be a right that is binding on all and legitimate means of coercion capable of pacifying relations between men, in the international order, on the other hand, there is no legitimate arbiter, and there never will be, whether it be an international organization or a state that claims to be the sole guarantor of peace between nations. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. this does not mean that the world is necessarily a jungle, it simply means that peace depends only on the balance between nations and groups of nations and that international law can only marginalise the natural play of states which, however devoted they may be to the cause of peace, remain cold monsters and never forget to calculate their power. let this be a lesson to us, the multilateral framework can do some things but only where, by some miracle, the interests of the nations coincide. let realism open our eyes and enable us to see at last the narrow framework in which our action is inscribed, and that is in the very nature of things.
the next item is the commission statement on belarus.
thank you, commissioner. i have received at the end of this debate seven motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote on the motions for resolutions will take place at 12 noon tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by emilio menéndez del valle on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on relations between the eu and india: a strategic partnership [2004/2169 (ini) ] (a6-0256/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr claude turmes on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the share of renewable energy sources in the european union and the proposals for concrete actions [2004/2153 (ini) ] (a6-0227/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the human rights situation of minorities in kosovo.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you for those remarks, of which i have taken due note. we will take them into account in our future work. i will begin by responding to the questions from members mohácsi, de groen-kouwenhoven and kallenbach. there are three camps of internally displaced persons in northern mitrovica for roma ashkali and egyptian people. these sites suffer from major lead pollution as a result of the activities of the former trepca mining complex and this poses a serious health risk to the inhabitants. in july 2004, the world health organization released a report on elevated platelet levels in those communities and recommended a set of emergency measures, including the evacuation of the centres. an agreement was signed in april 2005 by unmik, unhcr, osce and the president of the mitrovica municipal assembly, creating a framework for the return of former residents of the roma mahala to their homes in southern mitrovica. unfortunately, however, this process has not yet started. in the case of the roma mahala, we could not easily make funding available and so have communicated the request to all eu member states through the management committee, asking them to consider making sufficient funds available. we will continue to raise this issue on the ground through our eu liaison office and the european agency for reconstruction, which works in that area. i would also like to respond to mr posselt's question concerning minority rights in different countries, in the eu, in accession countries and in our partner countries. it is true, as mr posselt said, that there are many violations inside the european union. the minimum rights of minorities are set out in the relevant documents of the council of europe and the convention on human rights. some countries inside the european union stick close to the minimum standards, while others go beyond that and have a very high level of minority rights and protection. as the commissioner responsible for enlargement, i am faced with difficult situations, because it is hard for us to go beyond what some eu member states practice. nevertheless, we must practice what we preach when we are dealing with our partners, whether they are accession countries or countries in the wider world. that has to be taken into account, nevertheless. i agree that there is a case for working towards a more uniform definition of minority rights. in my view, human rights in general and the rights of minorities are at the heart of the european idea and of the european union. therefore, we should not see it as a static product but as a dynamic process which develops these rights at ever higher levels inside the european union and throughout europe. finally, concerning the questions raised by several members on the future of kosovo and its standards and status, there is clearly an urgent need for the economic and social development of kosovo. the level of unemployment depends on which statistics you look at. however, it is at least 40% and often more than 50%, and the situation on the ground is extremely difficult. people have no hope at the moment. therefore it is high time to move from stability and reconstruction towards defining the status and working for economic and social development and for the real needs of citizens. that is why it is time for the european union to move from a policy of standards before status to a policy of standards and status so that we move forward in the status talks, ensuring that they can start soon and be conducted and concluded without unnecessary delay. in that context, it is worth noting that the council has reached an agreement at working group level on the negotiating guidelines for the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia and montenegro. that is important because it enables us to open the negotiations on the stabilisation and accession agreement around the fifth anniversary of the democratic transition in belgrade and, moreover, because it will make serbia and montenegro's european prospects concrete and tangible and will also pave the way for a genuine dialogue on kosovo and a resolution of the question of its status without undue and unnecessary delays.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for debate on the report by ari vatanen on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on the commission communication 'european road safety action programme - halving the number of road fatalities in the european union by 2010: a shared responsibility' (a6-0225/2005).
rapporteur.– mr president, it is a pity that this debate is taking place so late, because when you drive home on an empty stomach that can be a safety hazard too. debate on traffic safety is a question of attitude. it is a question and a test of how we value human life. that is what it amounts to: is human life precious to us? the figures regarding traffic safety are as bleak and grim as the weather outside tonight. there are about 50 000 deaths per year, about 2 million people are injured. it is the main cause of death in the under-50s age group. it costs about 2% of gnp, equivalent to eur 200 billion. but that is only money. we have to realise that what is at stake is the human suffering. why do we do so little? it is because it is not the concorde which crashes, it is not the pride of the uk and france which crashes. when that happened, all concordes were grounded immediately. no stone was left unturned in seeking to remedy the problem. but when it comes to traffic safety, it is just one family crying here, another family crying there. their lives are shattered, amputated. you do not recover from it. you have to live with it. and perhaps only those people who have experienced that know what the grief of a family means. when i was a small boy i was with my entire family in a motor car when my father was killed. i remember him leaning against the steering wheel, that anxiety in my chest. i am sure that experience has left me with a bigger internal handicap than i dare to admit. there is still so much that we could do and can do. first of all law enforcement. okay, that is not an eu matter, it is not within our competence, but that is by far the most efficient way to get things done - through law enforcement, just abiding by and obeying the current rules. on the way here tonight i saw the french police carrying out an alcohol check. when more radars appeared on french roads, immediately fatalities came down. sometimes i think that, although it is a matter for subsidiarity, eu citizens should be protected from their respective governments. i am sorry to say that, but that is how it is, because we do not seem to realise the magnitude of the problem. there are incredible discrepancies between different states. it is up to eight times safer in the uk or in sweden than in some of the new member states - eight times - imagine that incredible diversity! we have to learn from one another. from now on we must carry out a systematic scrutiny of what is going from country to country. we have to render that transparent, so that people know about it, so that they make a noise about it, so that they create political pressure. we must coordinate our actions and we must disseminate our best practices. if we make mistakes, why should those mistakes be made in those countries which are still on the road to development? we have to name, shame and fame. that leads to action. when people have been woken up they will demand action from the politicians in their various member states. at an eu level we can promote new technology, we can promote new cars with fiscal incentives. at the moment a chinese car is coming onto the european market, with no eu approval. that should be stopped, because it is downright dangerous. we must invest more money in infrastructure. we should have an infrastructure directive on ten roads. europeans are mobile thanks to the european road network. it is not justified, or fair on european competitiveness, that we should spend so much money on railways, which serve so little purpose compared to the road network. we have to be just in that allocation. yet things are not so bleak. traffic has grown threefold since 1970 and yet fatalities have been halved. so cultures can be changed. we must believe in the new generation. at the end of the day, whatever we do, responsibility always lies with the individual. at the end of the day we are responsible. mr president, i know my time is up. the eu must act decisively. when our time really is up, hopefully it will not happen on a road. there are still many small boys out there waiting for their fathers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
member of the commission. mr president, the european textile and clothing industry is, and will remain, an essential part of the eu's industrial and social fabric. the figures speak for themselves: around 2.5 million employees, about 4% of eu gnp. there has been a significant reduction in employment in the sector over the past years. that is unavoidable in an increasingly open world economy, but this fact is of no consolation to the worker who loses his or her job. the role of the commission and the european union as such is to provide a predictable framework for the european producers and importers in the context of an open economy. however, this framework must be a compromise between widely differing objectives. on the one hand, we must and will ensure continued protection of our industry against unfair trade practices. also, if there are genuinely unforeseeable and major surges in imports, the european commission should be ready to provide temporary relief to the european textile and clothing industry without neglecting other interests at stake, such as those of importers, traders and distribution or of industry that is sourcing abroad. on the other hand, we must respect our commitments to china and help it to become a responsible wto member. china, provided it avoids unfair trade practices, is entitled to enjoy the benefits of its comparative advantages and its wto accession, while managing its integration into the global economy in a way that avoids trade disruption. this is what we have called the 'smooth transition'. as far as the textile and clothing sector is concerned, the scene for what is happening today was set a decade ago. it was agreed during the uruguay round that we would gradually abolish the remaining quantitative restrictions on imports in the textile and clothing sector by 1 january 2005, after a decade of transition. however, few anticipated the scale and speed of china's rise in this sector. there is a need to create a positive environment in international trade for textiles and clothing after the end of the textile and clothing agreement. the european textile and clothing sector has already proved that it can adjust to difficult situations and that it has the capacity to compete. one fact is often ignored: the eu remains the world's second largest exporter of textiles and clothing. this fact contradicts the view of those who see globalisation and the rise of china, and india in particular, as a swamping of european markets by low-cost producers. the truth is that the eu can compete globally but it involves a process of restructuring and adjustment playing to our strengths, not to the strengths of other countries. we should focus on innovative, high-tech, valued-added textiles in which we are strong. it also requires that other countries, not least the most competitive textiles and clothing exporting countries, should open their markets to competition too. that is why the current negotiations in the doha development round are so important and china has to fulfil the commitments it made when it joined the wto. when china joined the world trade organization it accepted a formal commitment that allowed the importing countries to apply special textile-specific safeguard measures if imports from china were to increase very rapidly and cause prejudice to the industry of importing countries. it did not apply unilateral measures. the eu and china reached a reasonable and balanced memorandum of understanding on 11 june 2005. this agreement was the result of months of patient and difficult negotiations aimed at dealing with this problem in a negotiated way with china, rather than through unilateral safeguard action which would inevitably have had unwelcome repercussions. above all it enables the european union and china to focus on a more positive overall trade agenda and to continue building a solid trade and economic partnership in the textile and clothing sector as well. let me recall that this memorandum of understanding gives a breathing space to the european industry, giving it extra time to adjust. it also provides a predictable and sure trading environment between the eu and china for the textile and clothing sector enabling businesses, including both the manufacturing industry and importers, to plan their investments with more time and to adjust. it affords temporary protection to the current position of many vulnerable and poorer countries in the eu market and avoids a wide-ranging trade dispute with the eu's second largest trading partner. what has been agreed is the maximum we could have extracted from china in terms of an agreed limitation of their exports, against the background of their and our wto obligations. on 5 september the eu and china decided through agreed minutes to fine-tune the implementation of the memorandum of understanding. these agreed minutes aim to unblock as a matter of urgency goods shipped after 13 july, the day following the entry into force of the regulation implementing the 11 june memorandum of understanding, in excess of the agreed levels set out in the memorandum of understanding. these agreed minutes entered into force on 13 september enabling from that moment the issuance of the necessary import licences and the release into free circulation of the merchandise which had been blocked on entry to the eu because of the exhaustion of the quantitative limits. through the agreed minutes, and in the spirit of close cooperation set up with the chinese since the june memorandum of understanding, both parties decided to share the burden of the agreed solution. half of the blocked amounts were unblocked by advance transfers from the 2006 agreed limits, plus transfers between different categories for 2005. the other half was unblocked through a unilateral increase by the eu of the import for 2005. the lucas report, which we will be discussing later, expresses concerns about the way the memorandum of understanding has been implemented, causing disruption to retailers and importers. in the implementation of the memorandum of understanding, the commission has acted diligently and transparently. we have to remember that, in this case, we are dealing with unprecedented volumes of trade in clothes, which are creating unforeseen circumstances. the difficulties arising from the transitional phase of the implementation of the memorandum of understanding should not recur due to an improved monitoring and control system applicable from now on. should implementation problems arise in the future, the commission will take expeditiously the necessary measures to ensure full respect of the memorandum of understanding as complemented by the agreed minutes of 5 september. but we insist that from now on, importers need to make sure that they conduct their operations in compliance with current eu regulations and that they verify that the quantities are available from the agreed limits. looking to the future, european industry now has an additional two-and-a-half years of predictability ahead, at least with respect to the product categories covered by the memorandum of understanding. the challenge for european industry now is to use this time to the maximum extent possible, in order to adjust to the new competitive situation that began to emerge regularly ten years ago. the difficulty of the challenge that faces the industry should not be underestimated, especially in those sectors where china's advantages, arising out of cheap labour, make it exceedingly difficult to compete. the commission, aware of the difficulties that the sector is experiencing, will continue its work in several other trade policy areas to provide the best possible environment for the industry to thrive in the current competitive environment. among our priorities will be: securing better and effective market access in third countries, notably through the doha development agenda negotiations, but also through bilateral contacts; fighting fraud, counterfeiting and piracy; and acting on allegations on unfair trading practices where justified. these and other measures are being examined in the context of the high-level group on textiles and clothing. the commission is determined to take the necessary steps to give new momentum to those measures, which are destined to help the industry overcome successfully this transitional period.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, on 10 june, mr mandelson concluded an agreement with china which allows the control and limitation of imports of certain chinese textiles into the european union until the end of 2008. but the implementation of this agreement has encountered some problems, such as the blockage of many goods in european ports, which you have had the opportunity to discuss with us. today, following the agreement of 5 september, we hope, commissioner, to avoid further supply stalemates and to prevent additional quantities entering european markets outside the shanghai agreement. we would like the revised agreement to take due account not only of the interests of the european textile industry, which has made a great effort to adapt, but also of the interests of textile producers in developing countries who have been hit by the liberalization of the textile industry. finally, commissioner, how can we envisage building the future of the european textile industry in a sustainable way, and beyond the 2008 deadline? what are the bases for this construction, in the light of the recommendations of the high level group on textiles and the own-initiative report of the european parliament? moreover, the crisis in the chinese textile sector has taken on a geopolitical dimension, beyond the industrial and social issues. i therefore believe that we must now ask ourselves together how the european union envisages its trade relations with its main partners, and in particular with china, in the long term. we shall have the opportunity to discuss this when we consider the report by caroline lucas. in the meantime, we must identify new development paths for the industrial sectors of the european union, which will make it possible in the future to anticipate imbalances and ensure a competitive response to all global challenges. the european union should, in the context of the forthcoming wto ministerial meeting in hong kong, support its partners' efforts to combat counterfeiting and piracy of textiles and clothing by effectively implementing the agreement on intellectual property rights, negotiate reciprocal market access by insisting on the removal of technical barriers to trade and ensure that social and environmental standards are applied by all. would that not be the best way, commissioner, to ensure that we can all trade on an equal footing in the long run?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, there is no one who is deafer than the one who does not want to hear. that is a maxim that is very much in line with the commission and commissioner mandelson. the textile industry was facing a real industrial and social disaster, but they were listening but not hearing. in the case between us and china, the european union capitulated in the open by accepting the challenge to import quotas. the proposals and appeals for help from the employees' unions and the professional organizations in the sector remained unanswered. the only winners in this case are the lawless merchants, the saboteurs of european industry, the followers of offshoring at all costs. the commission and the commissioner, acting together with extraordinary courage, have decided that, in the face of hundreds of thousands of jobs being lost and thousands of businesses being closed, it is urgent that nothing be done. they were hiding behind the schoolyard formula "20 million chinese or indian shirts, that's an airbus sold". a particularly stupid equation, since even the king of fools knows that it is not the textile producers who buy airbuses but the airlines. i can even reveal to you that these companies bought the planes because they needed them and they intend to finance these purchases through their activities and not by selling shirts. the united states has managed to sell its boeing aircraft and at the same time to take the necessary safeguard measures for its textile industry. in the face of the pressure, the anger of european workers and, above all, the approach of the french referendum on the constitution, you had, for strategic purposes, made some very frivolous proposals, which were immediately welcomed with enthusiasm by all your friends in the club of fake asses, but which we soon realized were nothing more than powdered perlimpinpinpin. as you cynically stated, globalization is a game with winners and losers, but you can't tell people that, so sometimes you have to take tactical measures. to defend the interests of the workers in the textile industry... (the president withdrew the floor)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, commissioner, the textile industry is in crisis. two autisms threaten it: the one of the single-mindedness which refuses to see the error in the new international division of labour. today, even high-tech is leaving the continent. we must fight against this deindustrialisation of europe and not give in to the mirage of the 'all-tertiary'. the other autism is that of the union's ideology, which, in your words, commissioner, consists in seeing this industry as a residue and china's forced extroversion as a smooth transition. we need to open our eyes to save this industry. the community preference as established by the treaty of rome must be restored so that competition is not competition between social systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. in the meantime, let us urge china to give priority to satisfying its internal market, let us restore quotas to the 2004 standards and let us not forget the poor textile exporting countries who are the first victims of this irresponsible policy. mr mandelson said: 'the european union is the most open economic area in the world.' i translate, "it's the least protected area in the world".
mr president, commissioner, it is heartbreaking to see a child dying every minute in the south from whooping cough or measles, even though there is a vaccine. well, it's the same with textiles and offshoring. to see jobs die, to see thousands of companies die, to see all these diseases of globalisation, when there is the possibility of developing a new customs technology, is unlikely to be obscurantist. i explained it to mr. mandelson. today, the customs duties of the old generation are very complex, with quotas, quotas, tariff peaks, non-tariff barriers. all this is technically complex and inefficient. now, we could simplify this. we need only invent, as we did for vat in 1954, the deduction of customs duties. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the duty on textiles to the community. and the chinese exporter could mobilize its customs credit, either on the stock market or by re-counting it with the banks and we would simply invent the customs vat, which took 50 years to spread. i explained this to mr danet, secretary-general of the world customs organization. i gave a note to mr. mandelson. but to see where we have gotten because of technological obscurantism, not being able to invent new-generation tariffs, is poignant, mr president.
mr president, a new company in the south-west of france has just announced its intention to cease its activity. fifty-four textile workers specialising in the production of high-end fabrics are at risk of being unemployed for a long time in an area already affected by the disaster. this is a catastrophic situation we are living in. many jobs have been lost in this sector since the beginning of 2005. the high level group's recommendations are preparing for the future, but what about the short term? you say that we have a two-and-a-half-year grace period, commissioner, because of the agreements you have signed. but we must act quickly and i suggest a few ideas: allow member states to use a reserve of structural funds to support companies in cash difficulties, to help them innovate, to reconvert; supporting companies to form consortia to become a real business force capable of conquering the chinese market; imposing social and environmental criteria; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
mr president, commissioner, in this debate you have received some compliments and a lot of criticism. i think that, beyond all controversy, this is due to parliament's great concern about the future of the textile sector and above all, what is striking in this case is the feeling of lack of anticipation on the part of the commission and the member states. you mentioned an unprecedented increase in volumes, but this increase in import flows was anything but unforeseeable. everyone knew what to expect when the multifibre arrangement was terminated and the quotas were lifted on 1 january this year. how can we then understand that it has taken so long for the commission to react? the possibility was open of using the safeguard clauses, which are allowed under wto rules. it was not at all necessary to wait for the agreement of the chinese side, nor to wait for the month of june. the commission is also asking how the protocol signed on 10 june was implemented and how the 85 million products blocked by customs and the excesses over the quotas agreed for 2005 came to be. how is it that the appropriate measures were not provided for at the time of the signing of the agreement and what guarantees do we have that the terms of this agreement will be able to be kept for the two and a half years you mentioned and which are supposed to give visibility to the sector to organise its restructuring? the textile and clothing trade union said 165,000 jobs had been lost since the beginning of the year and a million jobs were projected to be at risk by the end of the year. can you confirm these figures? what measures does the european commission intend to take? will the restructuring fund, which was defended by mr špidla and the previous commission, be able to be used to help the employment pools and the most affected companies? finally, many colleagues have referred to the structural problems of competition with china today, which is actually distorting competition under wto rules: export subsidies and disguised aid, such as the supply of electricity or interest-free loans to state-owned enterprises by state-owned banks. it is also worth asking whether it is not time to raise the question of basic social standards with the other partners of the european union who are affected by these increases in chinese imports in the wto: bangladesh, turkey, tunisia, morocco. does the commission intend to involve these partners and put these issues on the negotiating table, particularly at the hong kong ministerial conference?
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by expressing my gratitude for the congratulations and also for the understanding that has been shown for the difficulties of the situation. i am also grateful for the concerns and critical remarks that have been voiced. i have already addressed some of these in my introductory remarks. the commission is prepared to learn from the situation and to take on board all relevant concerns and criticisms. when we deal with china, we of course take into consideration the geopolitical aspects and the important role china plays in the world. however, in this particular case, we are giving preference to the aspects of trade policy, the interests of our textile industry and even to the possible social consequences of the situation. our trade policy vis-à-vis china – the memorandum of understanding and even the agreed minutes – are aimed at establishing a sustainable future for the european textile and clothing industry, which is basically competitive. we are very strong in upmarket products, for instance, and we are the second largest exporter of textile and clothing products in the world. the memorandum of understanding has given our textile and clothing industry additional time to prepare for the challenges it faces. measures are also aimed at protecting the interests of the maghreb states, as well as those poor developing countries which export textile and clothing products. the work on the reform of the rules of origin and origin-marking, which is being considered by the commission, is also intended to help the developing countries. concerning the problems of implementation of the memorandum of understanding and the question of whether the commission acted too late and lost time before may 2005, i would remind you that we first had to evaluate the situation and examine the quotas. some member states were late in submitting or providing the necessary information. it is true that there has been a huge stockpile of textile products and there were many reasons for that. one of the reasons is that it occurred in a short period between the signing of the memorandum of understanding and its entry into force, and some importers even put in orders in an attempt – ultimately unsuccessful – to block the system. at the end of the day, we had to apply a flexible solution, which was the advance use of the quotas for 2006, but of course this did not result in any increase in the quantity of the textile products which china will be able to export. the agreed minutes and the monitoring will prevent similar problems, similar bottlenecks, and the commission regularly makes the quotas public in order to inform importers. many speakers referred to the burning issue of counterfeiting and there is no question that the commission is firmly committed to combating it. i want to refer to the customs cooperation agreement we signed with china, which entered into force this spring and for which we have high expectations. as far as the prospects for the european textile and clothing industry are concerned, several questioners asked whether the industry needs protection. my answer is 'yes' and the measures concerned appear to be good enough, although we are prepared to review them. one measure, for instance, is the ongoing anti-dumping investigation on footwear. in reply to another question raised, chinese garments are subject to the same provisions as eu products. of course, we cannot extend the quotas after 2008, but as far as other solutions like outsourcing are concerned, my answer is 'yes'. however, the real solution is to further strengthen the competitiveness of the european textile industry through research, innovation and investment, but certainly not at the expense of environmental protection and environmental standards. but we will urge, encourage and help china to respect these same standards, as well as urging it to respect ilo standards. so, we understand the situation in its full complexity. these were the most important points raised during the debate. in the limited time available, of course, i cannot answer all the questions raised.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the report by caroline lucas, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the prospects for trade relations between the european union and china (2005/2015 ((ini)) (a6-0262/2005).
i was just about to make that announcement. on my list, there are about 50 minutes of speakers left, which means, as it is a theoretical figure, that we have roughly one hour of debate. you will understand that since it is a quarter to noon we cannot keep the members who are coming to vote waiting. officially, on our agenda, we were to end the debate at 11.50. what i can propose is that mr vanhecke should speak as an uninvited speaker and then that a first round of representatives should speak on their own behalf. so we have mr rübig for the epp, mr van den berg for the socialists, mr van hecke - the other mr van hecke - for the liberals, mrs auken for the greens/efa, mr farage for independence/democracy, mr didžiokas for the uen, and finally mr allister for the non-attached, which gives us 12 minutes. so we'd arrive at noon, noon five, which would be reasonable. the other speakers, unfortunately, will have to wait until this afternoon. i already know that our rapporteur will ask the house to postpone the vote so that it will not take place this afternoon but during our mini-session in brussels. the plenary will decide that later. that's all the information i can give you. if you agree, we shall conclude with the speakers who are registered on behalf of the groups, by the non-registered speakers, then a turn of speeches, that is to say 12 minutes, and then we shall suspend the votes, starting at noon.
i have only two options, mrs mussolini: either i respect the agenda as approved by the plenary and, in exactly one minute, i call the sitting to a close; or, in order to allow the maximum number of speakers to speak, i make a first round of speakers, some of whom are not registered, in the same way as others, no more and no less. i don't have any other choice. the commission's speaking time is free. only the speaking time of members of parliament is limited. so, since i see no objection other than yours, i propose that we continue by allowing the floor to an unregistered person, mr vanhecke.
the last speaker this morning on this report is mr allister, who has 90 seconds, and i would point out to mrs mussolini, who is not listening to us, that the non-attached will have spoken exactly as the other groups have. if there is discrimination, it is positive for you.
we shall suspend the debate on mrs lucas' report until 3 p.m. and resume the list of speakers as scheduled.
after hearing mr goebbels speak in favour of postponing the vote on mrs lucas' report, is there anyone who would speak against it? (the president declared that no members wished to speak against the postponement of the vote) the vote on mrs lucas' report is therefore postponed to the next part-session, with the understanding that the debate will resume at 3 p.m. because we must now suspend it to make way for the votes.
i take note of your observation, which is well founded, but it is true that the agenda for this session was particularly busy. that said, we convey to the competent authorities your wish, which i believe we all share, that question time be respected by the council, because it is one of the fundamental rights of this parliament to be able to address the council.
we now proceed to the votes. (for the results of the votes and other details, see minutes)
we have now finished with the votes.
i voted in favour of this text. what price increase are we talking about? in the absence of community powers of its own, i would first of all like to ask the member states: we pay between 60 and 80 per cent of the price of petrol in taxes to the member states. for example, in france, every time i pay 1 euro to a gas station attendant, it is equivalent to paying 80 cents to a tax collector... in such proportions, the consumption of gasoline becomes a real tax pump. if this national tax money were used to finance research and innovation to be less dependent on oil, then i would see some positive aspects... unfortunately, there is none. i would also like to say to the commission: the commission should step up its programming for the development of biofuels and therefore review certain policy areas of the cap. in the context of the revision of the lisbon strategy, the development of industrial innovation in the environmental sector and energy independence are one of the keys to success in restoring europe to the growth it needs. i am thinking in particular of the automobile sector (example: hydrogen fuel cell). the commission could also take a strong initiative in favour of solar energy and how to eliminate all energy waste once and for all... (explanation of vote, abbreviated pursuant to rule 163)
in writing. the world summit 2005 which has just ended was a failure, although many of us prefer to focus on the meagre progress, even if we exaggerate its scope and importance. the final document adopted, the fruit of a laborious compromise, is more like a catalogue of good intentions and pious wishes than a programme of action. but it must be said that the un is a 60-year-old old lady whose organization and way of working seems to have been fixed from birth. it is time to take account of the developments in the world since the end of the second world war. by accepting, for example, the extension of the permanent members of the security council to include germany, japan, india and brazil, without the right of veto, in order not to paralyse the institution. finally, i would like to reiterate that the un is an organization of independent states and that it is absolutely unacceptable that the commission can claim to represent the member states of the european union alone. and that, whether it be in the general assembly or the security council.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution but i voted against the second part of paragraph 19. i believe that the political and constitutional conditions for europe to have a common seat at the united nations are far from being met and that they will not be met any time soon because europe still has no constitution. in the absence of a european foreign minister capable of obtaining consensus positions within the european council, france must retain its seat.
in writing. the aim of reducing the number of road deaths, of which the figure (43 000 deaths per year in the european union) is considerable, must be endorsed. but i fear that to achieve this, we will once again give priority to poorly targeted repression over training and information. i am afraid that the specific features of certain countries, which, because of their status as a preferred destination, tourist or otherwise, or as transit countries, have to deal with considerable traffic flows which by definition increase the risk of accidents, but where the most punished are the nationals, are not sufficiently taken into account either. i am afraid that we will end up making the same mistakes as in my own country, where motorists often feel that they are being prosecuted for minor offences while criminals prosper, where government measures are not so much about their safety as about systematic fines, whereas the only alternative to the freedom offered by the car is public transport, which is inconvenient, too expensive and often unsafe.
we are finished with the explanations of vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the age of the grand coalition, we want to split them up a bit. we in the green group support the social democrats' demand that not only mr mccreevy but also mr barroso should be here. we are not in a circus here, and if mr mccreevy is making such statements in an age of the european social model, then it is the duty of the president of the commission to say for the commission what is and what is not valid! (applause from the centre)
mr president, i wholeheartedly support the request by mr schulz to invite both mr mccreevy and the president of the commission to speak because mr mccreevy is a repeat offender. i think he is in the habit of saying bluntly what some of his colleagues in the commission are saying. for example, mr mccreevy said at a conference in london that it must never be forgotten that the single market is by far the most far-reaching exercise in deregulation of the european union. we therefore want to know whether, when mr mccreevy speaks, he is actually saying bluntly, without any disguise, what mr barroso does not dare to say in public. that is why i suggest that they both speak to us on these matters.
mr president, i fully support the request made by mrs buitenweg because this is not yet another debate on immigration. we'll have more of them. the problem is, this time, men died. i regret that we did not pay tribute to these innocent victims at the beginning of the sitting. (applause) i would like to thank the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's immigration policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of immigration. that is why i fully support the change of title and the clarification 'ceuta, melilla'.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, human tragedies are taking place at the frontiers of europe; thousands of immigrants are arriving more and more regularly, especially in malta, lampedusa, or ceuta and melilla, and we received alarming testimony about the situation in the lampedusa camp after our visit, testimony that confirmed our worst fears. we have also all been frightened in recent days by the abandonment of immigration candidates in the desert and by the violence suffered. we are talking about men and women, often accompanied by children, who have made the painful decision to leave their country. they are fleeing from poverty, destitution or violence. all they want is to live in peace and dignity, and our current european asylum and immigration policy has failed to find the right answers. our asylum policy must be in line with our values. i would remind you that respect for human dignity is the first article of the charter of fundamental rights. on the other hand, the answer to the present challenge lies in european solidarity. it is unacceptable that we should leave the countries on europe's borders to deal with these situations on their own. we must give ourselves the means to combat the forms of destruction that threaten our planet: war, terrorism, poverty and underdevelopment, not to mention the other forms of destruction, such as the disregard for human rights, the rise of intolerance of identity and xenophobia. let us say that we have the capacity, with the will and the help of the instruments of politics, to help to halt the phenomena which presently appear to be the most threatening to the destiny of mankind. the answer is there. building peace and eradicating poverty are closely linked. the economic security of each person is a fundamental component of culture and peace. the eradication of poverty is essentially about the development of human resources, about the fair distribution of these resources and must be accompanied by efforts in the field of education. there can be no peace without poverty reduction, no controlled immigration without poverty reduction. there is no such thing as fortress europe. it is a fantasy. we must quickly understand the need to show solidarity with the developing countries and the need to act for peace and prosperity everywhere in the world. this is not a fantasy, it is not a utopia: it requires the will and the means to do so.
mr president, of course what is happening in ceuta and melilla leaves no one indifferent. women and men on the ground, in tijuana or brindisi, in lampedusa or ceuta, have marched. so, of course, our spanish friends or my moroccan friends cannot solve this problem alone, which is now a global problem and not just a european one. they'll be able to climb barbed wire to the sky, while men and women are thirsty and hungry, they'll be on their way. so what do you do? well, now we must proclaim a quadrilateral of humanity, that is, food, water, medicine and vaccines, as well as education must be global public goods. it is no longer just a european matter, it is a global matter. it is no longer about pooling coal and steel, as in 1950, but about pooling, on a global level, water, vaccines, food and education. when that is done, the people of the earth will no longer have to cross the sahara, the arizona desert, the rio grande, or gibraltar.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, before i begin, i would like to express my sadness and indignation at the events that took place this weekend in darfur. the loss of two soldiers and two civilians serving in the african union peacekeeping mission in darfur has been a shock to us all. the european commission condemns this cowardly and cruel act in the strongest terms. i would like to express my sincere condolences to the african union and to all the soldiers in the mission and tell them that europe is more than ever at their side in the quest for peace. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption today of a proposal for a european strategy for africa, the european commission is taking a giant step towards a new political partnership between europe and africa. a sound and rational strategic partnership between an enlarged europe on the one hand and a reborn africa on the other. for too long, europe's relations with africa have been disparate, between policy-making and implementation, between the policies and actions of some member states and those of the european commission, between the approach in sub-saharan africa and the approach in north africa, between trade cooperation and economic development cooperation, between traditional socioeconomic development initiatives and strategic policy measures. neither europe nor africa could tolerate this situation going on any longer. the new strategy for africa which i am presenting to you today therefore aims to provide the european union with a single, comprehensive and integrated framework for the long-term management of its relations with africa. for the first time, europe is addressing africa as a whole in a coherent way from cairo to cape town. although africa has many faces, many histories and different needs, it has now collectively embarked on the path of political, economic and cultural integration of the entire continent. this commitment has been concretised through the efforts to integrate regional economic communities, the launch of the african union and the new partnership for africa's development, nepad. these organisations are now the hope of the continent. i also remember the scepticism surrounding the creation of the african union three years ago. today, however, there has been remarkable progress in all areas, especially in the areas of peace and security. the african union is a major strategic player, i would even say, for us, an indispensable player on the african continent. it is europe's duty to respond to this call from africa which is on the move. for the first time, too, this strategy creates a framework for action by europe as a whole. it is not a question of eliminating the various national policies. i will not stop repeating that these national policies have their own specificities and added value. no, it is rather a question of creating a coherent framework for strengthening collective action at european level. together we are more efficient, together we weigh more. the enlargement of the european union to ten new member states has reinforced this need because it has brought the number of potential individual partners to twenty-six: twenty-five member states plus the european community. it is not enough that the european union's aid is increased, it must also be made more effective. in the past, the lack of coordination and complementarity between donors has often prevented development policies from delivering concrete and effective results. the european union has already done much to improve this situation, notably in the context of the high level forum on aid effectiveness held in paris in march 2005. but i think we need to go further. that is why i propose that next year we draw up an action plan for aid effectiveness, a plan which we will apply as a matter of priority in sub-saharan africa. this action plan will contain concrete tools, such as the creation of an operational and interactive atlas of eu donors, the harmonisation of national road maps, the adoption of common programming documents and the development of common procedures. some may feel that this is an exceptional initiative. the only question is to implement what we have all decided. i also think that the european union should expand budget support both in general and in sectoral terms. this would not only give the european union greater transparency, predictability and sustainability, but also a much greater collective influence on its action. finally, for the first time, the european union has a comprehensive and integrated framework of its various policies for managing its relations with africa. as i have said many times here, all the decisions we have taken in terms of increasing the quantity, quality, efficiency and consistency of aid will be implemented in sub-saharan africa as a matter of priority. let's go back to the consistency. until now, there has been little or no trade policy, security policy, so-called development policy or environmental policy in relation to africa. it must be admitted that these policies were not always articulated, and sometimes even contradictory. europe's security policy, for example, has long coexisted with its development policy, sometimes with some difficulty. recent experience, particularly in the area of the african peace facility, shows how closely security and development are linked and how important it is that european policies in these areas be closely coordinated. the central objective of the european union's strategy for africa, ladies and gentlemen, is to facilitate the achievement of the united nations millennium development goals in africa. i think that these should be our starting point and our reference point. the commission therefore proposes a three-pronged strategy. first, strengthen policies in areas which are considered to be prerequisites for achieving these objectives. for example, peace and security, good governance. second, strengthen policies that create the economic environment necessary to achieve these objectives. for example: trade, private sector development, interconnection. finally, strengthen policies in areas directly linked to these objectives, such as health, education, employment and the environment. together, these measures constitute a common, comprehensive and coherent response of the european union to the challenge of development in africa. these measures are ambitious and obviously have a huge scope, but to fundamentally change the course of history, we need more, we need to clarify our basic approach, the spirit of our relationships and maybe also sometimes our mindset. the communication therefore proposes to adapt the principles governing relations between europe and africa to a new african and european reality. this is achieved by three key principles: equality, ownership and dialogue. we're gonna have to replace guilt or charity as the determining factor in our partnership. the first principle is equality. the emergence of the african union and regional economic communities on the one hand, and the consolidation of european integration on the other, have created a more symmetrical and equal institutional framework. europe has more to offer than development aid. it has a unique experience of integration, dialogue and building supranational political institutions, although integration has sometimes been slow and has never been easy. the second principle is partnership. the european union and africa share the same values and objectives. we believe in a much more multilateral world order, a more equitable development and the promotion of diversity. more than ever, our two continents must be strategic allies within the international community. the third principle is appropriation. development policies and strategies cannot be imposed from outside. the african union and nepad's vision of good governance, respect for human rights and democracy deserves the support of the european union. this purely african initiative has given a new dimension to the concept of ownership as a basis for dialogue and cooperation with each country, with each region and with the continent. the very drafting of the strategy for africa is the first example of the application of these three principles. i would also like to thank the regional organisations and the african union for their comprehensive, constructive and judicious contribution to the preparation of the document. too often, strategies were written "about" or "for" our african partners rather than with them. ladies and gentlemen, when i asked for the portfolio of european commissioner for development and humanitarian aid almost a year ago, i knew that africa would remain at the heart of my action and commitment. i cannot hide my satisfaction at seeing the whole european commission engaged in the same effort today. the joint meeting with the african union commission has demonstrated the motivation and commitment of my colleagues. europe now has an unprecedented opportunity to build a new continent-to-continent partnership. the commission is presenting you with a plan, a vision, a coherent and integrated set of concrete and ambitious proposals. it is now up to you, members of parliament, and to the council, to take up your responsibilities. five years after the cairo summit, i believe that the time has come to turn our dialogue into action. we must work together to break the current impasse and enable the lisbon summit to take place. a successful lisbon summit will be a moment of great symbolic value, a moment when we will confirm the ever closer partnership between our two continents, a moment when we will conclude a new and ambitious euro-african pact. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we are talking about economic and social development and not cultural or spiritual development: africa does not need us for this, it could even give us lessons. we have therefore set up the millennium development goals. i would draw your attention to the fact that these objectives should not be sacralized, because if they are not achieved, there will be a sense of despair and failure and we will have a return that would be extremely damaging. the recipes for development are well known. but let us be humble enough to remember, first, that while public aid is a lever for development, it is a small thing compared to what private funds could do to develop africa and, second, that we must be careful not to approach complex africa with simple ideas. however, it is worth recalling some basic facts. infrastructure is one of these. we need road infrastructure, port and airport infrastructure, communications infrastructure, health infrastructure. secondly, security, by which i mean the security of property and persons, legal and judicial security and banking security. finally, we need a state, a state that provides its royal services, that pays its civil servants, and also a state that walks on two legs with civil society. we must therefore be the guarantors of these fundamentals. i would like to emphasize the quality of your communication, commissioner, which uses all the instruments at the disposal of the eu: excellent diagnosis, very good prescription, the therapy must be followed but it must be ensured that the patient does not die cured. money is not enough. it's not enough to raise money. africa must help itself. for our part, first of all, we must have confidence in the institutions that africa has. secondly, our policies must be coherent and coordinated. thirdly, africa must apply its own prescriptions, and i am thinking in particular of the diagnosis made by nepad. fourthly, there is money, so let's stop feeling guilty. the change from 0.31% to 0.50% represents twenty billion euros: 50% of this sum will be spent on africa, that is ten billion euros, ten billion euros is an edf per year - the edf has thirteen billion euros for five years. we will therefore have the opportunity to finance ten billion euros a year for africa. in the state of the existing procedures and channels, it is impossible to engage them and spend them. the example of the edf relic demonstrates this. so we have to review our budgetary instruments for aid. i also believe that budget support should not be seen as a panacea without extremely strict control and monitoring.
i would like to mention, commissioner, the question of energy, energy policies, which i think is not sufficiently dealt with in your document. the resolution on oil dependence adopted by the european parliament at its last session stressed the need for a sustainable energy policy as part of the european union's development aid policy. so this is a particularly important example of consistency to be implemented. as you know, a serious oil crisis is looming in the european union and in the north in general, and at the same time it is clear that the oil resources, although important in africa, have not benefited, to say the least, the development of the local populations. i will give the example of nigeria, which is the most populous country in the world, and also one of the richest in terms of resources, but has not experienced the necessary development. so tensions are going to increase and we need new legal and financial tools, a strong strategy at european level to achieve a fair and sustainable management of the oil resource. i'd like to hear your suggestions on that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner is proposing to us today a strategic partnership between the european union and africa. this is a new opportunity for us to respond to the essential needs of the african continent. a few weeks ago, heads of state and government met in new york. the declarations of that time were loud, the will was strong and hope was to be found. but the results were insignificant. the millennium development goals will not be achieved and africa is once again the big loser. this african despair is expressed in the images on our television screens, images of men ready to die on the barbed wire of our continent to win a better future and a future for themselves and their children, a future for their country and their continent. we all know that to get africa out of poverty, war, hunger and violence, a method and financial means must be put in place. we've known our responsibilities for a long time. the european union has a long tradition of providing development aid to the african continent, but the results are largely inadequate. you said, commissioner, that your plan would try to strike a balance between social objectives and economic development. i am not one of those who believe that economic liberalisation will automatically lead to social progress and i am concerned, in this context, about free trade agreements with the acp countries. i believe that our investments must give priority to education, training, research, health, public services. we must, and i believe this is one of your priorities, pay attention to better use of funds, to better distribution, to better governance, in fact, to the establishment of transparent and peaceful democracies. i believe, commissioner, in your political will. i would, however, like you to clarify a few points. how do you intend to deal with the diversity of african countries? in particular, how does this general plan relate to the various existing partnerships, and how does it deal with the debt issue, which i think is not sufficiently addressed in the plan? in short, what practical implementation and what resources can be attributed to this strategy?
the commissioner can rest assured that he has not overstayed his speaking time, which, as a commissioner, is not counted. the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
- the next item is the statement by the commission on the situation in ethiopia.
member of the commission. mr president, i will be very brief because i actually agree with a lot of what has been said here. i would also like to congratulate and thank mrs gomes for maintaining her composure in certain difficult moments for her, which i can understand. i thank her for having carried out this observation mission in a very positive and correct way. i would also like to join those who have thanked tim clark: it must not have been easy every day. i believe that if the prime minister does not meet at least one of our expectations within a short period of time, it will be extremely difficult to continue the political dialogue in the present state of affairs. that's what i believe deep down. i am one of those who have shown a very great understanding of what happened there. all these messages were sent to the prime minister. i sometimes feel that, for some reason, he does not fully understand the danger he is putting his country in. we pushed it. i have also spoken a lot with the opposition people to urge them to take their seats in parliament to make the parliamentary institution work. that said, it is clear that in return the prime minister must now send a number of signals that are in line with what we want. as regards the question of the suspension of cooperation, i think that at this stage it is not possible to envisage the launching of a formal procedure to suspend development cooperation. the dialogue, in the context of article 8 of the cotonou agreements, is still open and i think that this dialogue is the most appropriate way to keep the doors open and to engage the parties to take constructive steps. i am, however, following the political situation very closely and i do not hide from you that even i, who am very sensitive to the risks of chaos, am slowly becoming impatient. we must now put maximum pressure on the prime minister to make him understand that democracy is not a one-sided thing, that the opposition must respect itself, especially in view of the election results. the elections are a different matter and if the prime minister wants to continue to enjoy a favourable reputation with the international community, he should be careful not to take too much advantage of it. that's my belief. so i very much agree with what has been said here.
the debate is closed. i have received five motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 103 (2) at the end of this debate. the vote will take place tomorrow. (the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.)
the agenda calls for the report by guy bono, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on education, a cornerstone of the lisbon process (2004/2272 (ini)) (a6-0245/2005).
apparently, the colleagues here agree with your observation.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first like to briefly recall the context in which i wrote this report, then outline the six priorities that guided me in drafting my report, and finally draw your attention to six key proposals in this report. as regards the context, it should be recalled that the purpose of this report is to alert the council to the delays in the implementation of the lisbon strategy by the european union in the field of education and training. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the spring european council of 22 and 23 march 2005 set itself the objective of making the european area of education and training a reality. however, member states must move from grand declarations to concrete measures. this report therefore identifies priority areas for action. in a very recent working document on progress towards the lisbon objectives in the fields of education and training published on 11 april 2005, the commission services analysed the performance of thirty education and training systems. on the basis of the analysis of the very precise data available in this document, i would therefore like to remind you of the six priority areas in which it seems to me that member states must act urgently if we want education to remain at the heart of the lisbon process. the six priorities, which i have already set out in the committee on culture and education, are as follows: reducing the high number of young people leaving school prematurely; to meet the need for a sufficient number of scientists; implementing coherent lifelong learning strategies that are conducive to social inclusion; attract more than one million people to the teaching profession over the next decade; to combat the fact that most pupils in the european union do not achieve the target of at least two foreign languages and, finally, to strengthen the open method of coordination and the exchange of good practice in the field of education and training. i would therefore like to draw your attention to six proposals contained in this report, based on these six priorities and on the comments made by my colleagues in the committee on culture. firstly, in order to develop skills in line with the needs of the knowledge society, it is crucial for member states to take swift initiatives to accelerate the mobility of students, trainees, workers and their families, researchers and to develop social inclusion policies for disadvantaged young people affected by poverty. secondly, the report calls on the commission and the member states to encourage young people to take up technical careers that will lead to employment and integration. in this context, i think it is useful to propose that the european union launch a communication campaign to promote excellent technical courses among young people in order to remedy the often negative social image of young people. thirdly, the report stresses the need for parliament to reiterate its support for the initiative of a pilot project to develop an erasmus-type programme for apprentices, in order to facilitate access for apprentices to the community's 'new generation' education and training programmes. fourthly, in the context of the budget debate, i think it is useful to also recall the need for the european union to ensure sufficient funding for the new integrated action programme in the field of lifelong learning. it is also necessary to ensure that the european social fund can continue to be available after 2006 in all member states of the european union. fifthly, the report asks the council to provide adequate budgetary allocations, in the context of the next financial perspective, for all actions relating to lifelong learning, on which the achievement of the objectives will largely depend. finally, sixthly, the report warns the member states of the need to implement without delay more coherent national training policies aimed at improving the conditions of access for jobseekers and workers. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we are at a crucial moment for the european union. recent political events have made it clear that the education of citizens and the fight against unemployment must be placed at the centre of all public policies. we cannot have a competitive economy without an adequate and competitive education and training system. i would also like to say to you and to our colleagues in the commission and the council that unless a substantial budget is allocated to education at european level, there will be no real european citizenship and it will always be difficult to agree on a common political project to be carried out by the twenty-five. i therefore count on your support, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can send a strong signal to the member states to put education back at the heart of the lisbon strategy as a matter of urgency.
member of the commission. mr president, i want to thank you for the many interesting contributions and for the discussion you have given us. whether we call education a cornerstone or a central or a key, it is clear that without better, higher quality and more accessible education and training, there can be no better economic and social answers to the lisbon strategy or to the current problems in europe and in the member states of the union. i believe that education should be a central priority here too, and - of course - especially in the policies of the member states. perhaps i should respond directly to one comment - on mobility and the european year of mobility 2006. in my view, the best contribution to the apparent increase in mobility would be for many older member states to lift the moratorium on labour mobility from the new member states, which is precisely what the 1 may 2006 deadline would do as a two-year first start-up period. in conclusion, lifelong learning is neither a luxury nor a hobby, it is a necessity to maintain one's ability, whether it be digital literacy or language or otherwise. the same is true of teachers who multiply these skills in their students. lifelong learning - this should be both a principle, a policy, a strategy and a programme. on the one hand, we are concerned about the lack of results that we have agreed with the states, but on the other hand, we have the encouragement that it is possible. if you look at lisbon or the pisa studies or the benchmarking, you see good results, but on average, it's not satisfactory. but what i'm saying is that we must not be guided by mediocrity, but by excellence, by the best examples. it shows that european countries can be the best in the world in terms of science, skills or literacy, many important conditions for competitiveness. the goal, but also the answer, is to invest more and better in education. better - that is reforms, adaptations - very necessary, sensible and timely. it's more about really needing to add in state budgets (some are very good examples) but also here in the union. i want to thank you for this approach, for this support, also in financial terms, and i look forward to this type of policy and cooperation for the good of education in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs novak, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european parliament and council recommendation on further european cooperation on quality assurance in higher education (com (2004) 0642 - c6-0142/2004 - 2004/0239 (cod)) (a6-0261/2005).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i would first of all like to thank all those who have helped me with the preparation of this own-initiative report at the level of the commission, parliament and also the council with which i have had contacts. i hope that this report will be adopted soon. so what is the point of the european parliament being concerned with urban actions which are not in our texts and are not normally within our competence? i think that in order to understand the situation today, it is interesting to take a quick look back. over the past half century our institutions have devoted much of their attention to such vital central problems as coal and steel at the outset, the common agricultural policy, the single act which was a founding element of our european organisation by allowing people, capital, goods and services to move throughout our countries and then, more recently, the single currency. in parallel with these great moments, our european organization has taken hundreds and thousands of measures concerning the lives of our fellow citizens. but, with all this, we have not seen coherence develop at the level of the places where 3,700,000 people are concentrated, the 80% of the population who now live in urban and peri-urban areas. i insist on the terms urban and peri-urban. nevertheless, a number of decisions have been taken in the last 15 to 20 years. the first, which is probably the most significant, dates back to 1988, since article 10 of the erdf specified the need for urban pilot projects. then, in 1990, two years later, two documents were published: a green paper on the urban environment and a report on urban neighbourhoods in crisis. in 1993, jacques delors organised a european crossroads in the city. the first urban programme, which we are now discussing, was launched in 1994, followed by a second programme in 2000. finally, in 2004, the urbact data exchange programme was launched. we can thus see that over the course of some 15 years a number of programmes and decisions on urban matters have been gradually, very slowly and very modestly introduced. it should also be noted that, in parallel, in recent years there have been numerous conferences, symposia and other events on the subject. in recent months, however, things have accelerated considerably. on 30 november 2004, an informal council meeting of the dutch presidency was held in rotterdam, which focused on the subject and devoted a very good text to it. i would also like to highlight, together with my colleagues in the urban intergroup, the creation of the urban housing intergroup in 2005. many articles on urban policy appeared in all the texts on regional funds prepared by the commission in 2004. the uk presidency is planning a meeting on sustainable communities in bristol next december. so we see that the urban business has developed considerably. what is the question today? well, we see a certain amount of mess in our urban and peri-urban sectors. one of our colleagues, who is here, told us the other day that, for example, in leipzig, 30% of the renovated dwellings are unoccupied. isn't that a huge waste? we are not seeing that, thanks to our regional funds in particular, but also thanks to national funds and local budgets, a school is being built here and there, without the housing being rehabilitated or, on the contrary, housing is being rehabilitated without the public transport being rebuilt, etc. it's time this mess ended. it is time we really had a policy that was much more coherent. my report, which has been the subject of a long debate, is not intended to set new objectives. we have goals. the report is intended to provide the means to achieve the lisbon and gothenburg objectives at the urban level. what are these ways? i think you have all read this own-initiative report. i would like to draw a few essential points from this, in particular the fact that our three institutions - the parliament, the council and the commission, which prepares and implements - must organise themselves internally in order to be more effective in their decisions on urban issues. we are witnessing a power struggle between the state, the region, the city and possibly the european union, and these different powers must now work much more coherently to be ultimately much more effective. we must achieve an integrated urban policy at both spatial and thematic level. i have spoken of this with the unfortunate examples quoted earlier. we cannot carry out an action without it being coordinated with other actions. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of good practice. i have always said that knowledge and the implementation of good practice that has been proven elsewhere is often much more productive than a small grant. our parliament has no competence in urban policy. our parliament, let us not be deceived, will not allocate fabulous sums of money in the financial perspective to finance new urban prospects. it will all depend on our ability to organise ourselves better to be more efficient, and that is the proposal i make to you in the various articles of my report.
in writing. today textiles, tomorrow footwear, automobiles, machine parts, steel, after tomorrow electronics and high value-added products, if the process is not already under way... how many more european industrial sectors are you going to sacrifice blindly? how many millions of unemployed will your fanatical attachment to globalism still make? china is not living up to its wto commitments. you know that, it's in your report! state subsidies to companies and exports, closed markets, voluntary currency dumping, counterfeiting, piracy... china's unfair practices are legion! but the most important of all is the lack of freedom, especially trade union freedom, which deprives chinese workers of the possibility of demanding better wages or better working conditions. our interests, those of the countries and peoples of europe, our jobs, our economies, must take precedence over the suicidal respect for the ultra-compromising ideology. all the countries of the world, including the united states, have understood this. not the europe of brussels. because it does not speak of protection, retaliation or questioning of globalism, and even if it has the merit of raising a number of problems, this report is insufficient.
in writing. according to mr portas, immigration is an end in itself, no longer having any economic or social basis. belief in its infinite benefits is almost religious in nature. this is probably why he advocates not only that immigrant and immigrant-born populations be taught their native language and culture until at least the third generation, but also that this education be extended to indigenous populations in a great multicultural mix aimed at creating, i quote, 'a common cosmopolitan heritage'. mr portas proposes nothing less than a fictitious integration of immigrants by the disintegration of the host society, the deculturation of both european and immigrant populations. by refusing to impose their values, norms, languages and culture on their own territory, european countries have for decades been contributing to the communitarianisation of society and creating the conditions for inter-ethnic and inter-cultural clashes, which are already taking place in several countries. at a time when the spanish enclaves of ceuta and melilla are facing the onslaught of thousands of people seeking to emigrate, when the pressure to emigrate is growing even more strongly, and when our countries are already saturated, this report is not only absurd. it's an assault on our identity.
in writing. our colleague doris pack's excellent report finally addresses a cultural subject which we too often tend to regard as a minor art, when it is art in essence since it brings the dream, the journey, childhood, the sculpture of forms, music, tragedy, poetry, mixing courage and sensitivity. it is time for the political world, which claims to be the world of beasts, to dedicate the circus to the tamers. it was all the more necessary to do so because from the big names, like bouglione, to the more modest, like in "la strada", circuses create links between generations and peoples. it is a cultural river that crosses countries and borders of time, space and age. for all this, doris pack has made her report a political party, albeit a short-lived one, which will be remembered in this parliament.
mr president, recently the president of the french republic has accused europe of responsibilities which it does not have, legally, since the dismissals were on french territory. and we have strongly condemned a form of political irresponsibility. more recently, the commission's director-general for economic affairs, mr klaus regling, said that the european union should aim for a 3.7% wage cut in order to achieve 1% growth. this statement, which is as absurd as the first one, must be condemned with the same vigour. the commission would be better advised to make innovative proposals to stimulate consumption: instead it chooses to go beyond its role as a proposal and actually fall into provocation. the ethics of european responsibility demands clarity from the heads of state on who is doing what, but it also subjects the european commission - and this is the least - to a requirement of seriousness.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on employment and social affairs, for which i am rapporteur, has been in favour of the commission's initiative for the erasmus and leonardo programmes, in particular the integration of higher vocational training into the erasmus programme. this merger reflects our commitment not to discriminate between students based on their field of study, whether academic or general or professional. i congratulate the rapporteur, doris pack, on the quality of her report and thank her for having taken account of the majority of the opinions of the committee on employment and social affairs, particularly with regard to lifelong learning and education, which are recognised as one of the keys to growth and a guarantee of quality jobs. lifelong learning should be a right and a particular responsibility of enterprises and this should be recognised at community level as a fundamental social right. these programmes are gradually creating a european area of training and education, and we need this area very much to support the labour market. we need qualifications to be more harmonized and more convergent, we need the skills of european workers to be guaranteed throughout the union and thus paid at their fair value. we believe that this is an effective safeguard against social dumping.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs pack, on her work on this very important subject for the future of the union. just a reminder that the vote in the committee on culture and education has made considerable progress, particularly with regard to the mobility of apprentices. the specific conditions of apprenticeship status are now hindering their full participation in the community mobility scheme. only 0.15% of a given age group in france and 1% in germany are currently receiving leonardo. by making the support initiatives of all the organisations involved in apprenticeship mobility eligible for this programme, the vote in the culture committee represented a significant qualitative advance, which should help achieve the objective set by the european commission of at least 150 000 placements in enterprises by 2013. we do not want these advances to be called into question. the mobility of young people in vocational training, particularly apprentices, is one of the tools for creating a genuine entrepreneurial and innovative spirit in europe. this is one of the conditions for achieving the objectives set by the heads of state or government in the framework of the lisbon strategy.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, let me first of all congratulate the rapporteur, mr graça moura, on the work he has done on such a fundamental subject as the culture programme. i would like to return briefly to four points which i consider important and which i defended in the committee on culture on behalf of the pse. firstly, as regards the cross-cutting aspect of the programme, it must be said that the commission's proposal reflects good intentions and is moving in the right direction. no one should oppose the strengthening of the coherence of the programme in order to put an end to the fragmentation which has so long characterized the cultural action of the european union. however, there are intentions on the one hand and the means proposed on the other. i come now to my second point, the question of the budget. there is no point in the european union setting ambitious objectives such as the promotion of cultural diversity and cultural cooperation if the available budget is not adequate. we have therefore asked for a substantial increase in the budget allocated to this programme, so that it can contribute - this is the task assigned to culture - to the development of a european culture and identity, which will help to overcome national egoisms and, thus, the crisis the union is currently going through. the third point is the commemoration sites. we have asked for a clear distinction to be made between cultural organisations and sites, not that we think these sites are unimportant, quite the contrary. as such, we would like the commission to ensure that the budget for the citizenship programme, to which we have asked for them to be incorporated, is increased substantially. finally, and this will be my last point, i wanted to mention in the recitals of this programme the cultural industries, which are major sources of employment - in particular amendments nos 7, 11 and 13, adopted by the committee on culture. a recent eurostat study showed that the cultural industry contributes significantly to the european economy. in this connection, it would be desirable to carry out a study which would highlight the importance of these industries for the european economy.
on behalf of the alde group. mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the culture 2007 programme for the period 2007-2013 proposed by mr graça moura meets, on the whole, the expectations of cultural professionals. he is balanced, consistent, and demanding. it is concerned with the content of the proposals, it gives priority to cultural diversity, and it is committed to the development of european citizenship. i thank mr graça moura for his attention and for the quality of the dialogue we were able to establish. i am also particularly pleased that the recognition of cultural industries has been included in a recital to this report. i have personally fought hard to ensure that they are included in this programme, and although this is still far from sufficient, the progress made is not negligible and deserves to be noted. i will continue to defend the position that cultural industries contribute to the promotion of european culture: they generate employment and economic value for the cultural sector; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. unfortunately, there's a dark side to this painting. none of my colleagues in the committee on culture and education will dispute this, because if there is one point on which we are unanimously agreed, it is the budget. i regret that culture is still considered by the commission as a luxury second to necessity. is he so sure that it is only a luxury and that it comes only after the necessity? violence exists, it dreams of destroying culture. one of his ways is to invoke his uselessness. i am therefore deeply shocked by the amount of money allocated to it and by its poverty. but i have a glimmer of hope, commissioner. the unesco convention, which was approved by an overwhelming majority a few days ago, is a great victory for europe and shows once again that when europe is united, it is strong. it is also a great victory for european culture. now that her diversity has been recognised, she can now assert herself on the international stage, but she cannot continue as an ambassador unless you give her the financial means. i will conclude by simply saying to you, commissioner: it is up to you to ensure that we get a decent and honourable budget for culture, which is not less than 1% of the general budget.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, madam commissioner, in her very comprehensive report, mrs hieronymi underlined the importance of the proposals for the media 2007 programme, which takes over the architecture and mechanisms of the current programmes, which have proved to have a very positive impact on the european audiovisual sector. the general objectives of the future programme have fortunately been adapted to the structure of the companies in the sector and their financing needs as well as to the evolution of technology and the market in a highly competitive environment. i would simply point out that with funding representing 15% of the budget allocated to the promotion of culture and european citizenship in the financial perspective, the audiovisual sector and thus cultural diversity will be advantageously strengthened. recalling that the sector is not only of great political and cultural importance but also of great social and economic potential, the commission proposes to allocate to media 2007 a budget of eur 1.055 billion over the period 2007-2013 for the financing of actions and administrative expenditure. the future media 2007 programme would thus see the current budget for the media+ and media training programmes increased by more than 50%. this is the first post-enlargement programme and the increase in the budget should allow effective support for professionals in the new countries, for whom investment capacity and access to bank credit are still often limited. the commission also proposes simplifying community assistance for administrative and financial procedures. given all these proposals to improve a programme that has already proven its worth, media 2007 deserves to be welcomed, even if the €1.055 billion is only indicative for the time being, pending the adoption of the financial perspective. given the high financing needs of a growing sector, but fragmented into multiple smes in the 27 countries concerned, these financial prospects are obviously eagerly awaited. the committee on budgets therefore supports this new programme, which takes account of enlargement and the difficulties faced by smes in accessing community measures and funding. the improvement of this programme, which aims to introduce more flexible procedures by making the requirements for the beneficiary companies proportional, is also a key point. media 2007 should thus enable the european film industry and the audiovisual sector to continue to develop their activities by meeting the challenges of international competition.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mrs ruth hieronymi on the quality of her report and thank her for having taken up the views and comments of the committee on industry. so i'll cut to the chase. to maintain the leverage of the media programme, which is now recognised in a market where competition is intensified, we must continue to ensure that it is adaptable to the expectations of professionals, but also to the challenges posed by the arrival and massive development of new formats, such as digital, or new media, such as mobile telephony. to be even more effective, media must not only accompany technological developments, but rather anticipate and even stimulate them. the complementarity between media and the other neighbouring innovation and research programmes is therefore essential and needs to be further strengthened. media 2007 is the first post-enlargement programme. the protection of film productions in the newly joined countries justifies, in itself, an increase in european support, with particular attention to establishing a favourable proportionality for these countries. we must also support the indirect costs of private financing of production projects, so that, by reducing risk, we can provide wider access to bank loans for a large number of companies. this access to bank credit for smes is a crucial element in the development of a strong audiovisual industry. in this geopolitical and technological context, the budget of €1.5 billion proposed by the commission is a minimum for seven years and twenty-seven countries. while i welcome the initiatives taken in this area to encourage and facilitate national investments which are essential to the success of the future objectives of media, i cannot accept that media should be subject to the vagaries of our discussions on the financial perspective. these are the conditions for the media programme, which is crucial to the success of the lisbon objectives, to be able to develop and strengthen one of the most promising sectors for job creation and economic growth.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, my group naturally supports the socialist group in its dispute with mr mccreevy and the commission in general. how could the left accept a conception of europe based on the competition of workers and the organization of social dumping? this is exactly the kind of policy we have in mind when we say 'no' to liberal europe. the point is that the brutal and provocative mr mccreevy and all those who think like him can unfortunately rely on the rules in force in the european union to support a latvian company which claims to ignore swedish collective agreements and apply more restrictive social standards. the provision to which the latvian service provider and its brussels sponsors refer in this case is called mutual recognition, which was introduced into community law by the court of justice's case-law as early as 1979 with regard to the free movement of goods and then extended to services some 15 years ago. it's a strategic move. instead of legislating for social harmonization upwards, we are letting the market and competition drag social achievements downwards: this is what we call in community jargon better regulation. the commission published a very explicit communication to parliament and the council in 1999. i quote: 'the application of mutual recognition is fully in line with the philosophy of the internal market, according to which the rules of the member state of origin normally prevail and the member state of destination may derogate from this rule only under very strict conditions involving imperative requirements of general interest, such as health, consumer protection or the environment.' with the latest enlargement, this rule has become explosive: the more social disparities increase between member countries, the more they reveal its diabolical implications. the court's decision will now depend on what it considers to be 'overriding requirements in the general interest'. it is therefore not only mr mccreevy's zeal that must be attacked, but also the pernicious provisions of the community acquis itself that must be opposed. let us think about this now, in the light of the forthcoming votes on the bolkestein draft directive, whatever mr poettering may say about it, and let us use this experience more generally in our collective thinking on the future of europe. (applause from the left)
mr president, commissioner, what our citizens need is very good information and they expect us to take the lead and say things clearly. firstly, it emerges from the informal meeting of the health council last week that some member states do not yet have a genuine emergency plan. we should know, commissioner. we need to know! there must be transparency, because it is up to us to hold these governments to account. the european commission must be firm, and i would even say that it must, in the name of the general interest, go beyond some of its prerogatives to achieve perfect coordination of emergency plans. we must get rid of the european schizophrenia of saying that we must not encroach on the prerogatives of the member states. but what will people say when there's a pandemic? commissioner, you will never be blamed for saving lives, but you will be condemned, and severely, for excessive frivolity. secondly, in the context of research into the new vaccine, the european union must provide financial support to both help the development of vaccines and ensure proper coordination in the conduct of studies on them and encourage mass production. i understand there's a pediatric component to this research as well. the use of the solidarity fund, which we propose in our resolution, therefore seems essential, particularly for its full application by the member states. commissioner, i know that this is now the responsibility of mr verheugen, but when we reviewed the pharmaceutical legislation we adopted a conditional marketing authorisation measure to save time. what about this important pandemic procedure? i think it was left in a drawer somewhere. we can't wait for the epidemic to hit before we start to worry about it. i am counting on you to shake commissioner verheugen's hand and to put in place an effective system of accelerated marketing authorization.
mr president, i will be a stone-thrower in a minute and a half. i would first like to ask the commission how it intends to publish the plans which will be drawn up by each of the member states. are there deadlines for all europeans to be able to read all the plans in each country and the positive guidelines that should be taken everywhere? the exchange of good practice and decisions should be encouraged. finally, in the event of a pandemic, who will decide what decisions to take to ensure that the convergence of efforts goes in the right direction, that is, in the direction of prevention? what will be the union's powers and how can the ball be avoided between the member states and the union in the event of a pandemic? secondly, the commission did not consider it necessary to publish the stocks of antivirals currently available in each member state. i think that this lack of transparency is not reassuring to the public. we must both know what stocks each member state has and create a fund which will enable each member state to have as much as possible of the antiviral stocks. what are you going to do about it? thirdly, we have no clear strategy for staff and people who are in direct contact with animals and, in particular, with poultry farms. we would think it necessary to have a specific strategy for these staff and these people. secondly, do you not think it would be useful to coordinate the role of the agencies so that, at european level, a sort of expert group could be set up which would provide reliable scientific information and, in any case, shared views? the who has recently issued a call for the prevention of animal disease. so you need money. is the european union prepared to pay money globally to limit the epidemic?
despite recent alarmist statements, it is still difficult to assess the health risks and to quantify the likelihood of the h5n1 virus mutating into a form that can be transmitted to humans and between humans. the threat of a pandemic is real. so far, this virus has caused 112 human influenza cases, including 57 deaths, all of which were localized in southeast asia. from then on, all the actors involved in the field, from farmers to veterinarians and, in particular, to hunters of migratory game, must apply all preventive measures. in order to minimise the risk, international coordination is essential, as is the implementation of a european preparedness plan. this is already in place and will have to be well articulated around the various national plans. strengthening coordination, transparency between member states, protecting europe's borders, while at the same time assuming our duty of solidarity towards third countries are principles which must guide our actions. however, the manufacture of prototype vaccines against an emerging virus by private laboratories is problematic because it concerns public health, public safety. specific european funds will have to be devoted to this research area. europe is justified in these dramatic circumstances.
in writing. this report concerns the development of european citizenship . we are here at the heart of the ambiguity of the european cultural programme, because what is it about: joining europe? but it is already done because we are all europeans! to join the european construction as it is currently being carried out? then this is propaganda ! so let us say that we are of course in favour of defending europe's cultural heritage, but that the cultural budget must not become an annex to the eu's communication budget! european youth are facing problems (suicide, drugs, unemployment), so let us act more concretely on their causes rather than invoking vague and catch-all actions (mobility, commitment, citizenship, etc.). it is not the eu's job to get young people to act - young people are not larvae - but its policy can be to prevent dangers (drugs in particular) which it is doing only imperfectly so far.
in writing. culture 2007 aims to simplify the granting procedures compared to culture 2000. one of the criticisms of the programme is that it is poorly managed: the appeal effect produced among cultural operators leads to an influx of applications and an arbitrary selection: 80% of the applications submitted are rejected for formal reasons! but are we sure that culture 2007 will improve things in this area? is it not rather the european bureaucracy itself that is at issue? to jean monnet's famous statement that 'if i had to do it all over again, i would start with culture', we can make two replies: - it is stupid since european culture has existed for ever, and that is precisely why we speak of europe! - fortunately the technocrats in brussels have not dealt with culture otherwise it would be in a sad state today (just look at what has become of agriculture or the steel industry)!
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, i would first like to thank mr jan marinus wiersma, who has given me the floor because i will not be able to attend the whole debate. i also want to welcome the work carried out by the commission, which i believe is fully in line with both the conclusions of the european council and the resolutions which have been voted by our parliament. in december 2004, we decided to close the negotiations. the main areas of reform in which progress was needed in terms of the acquis were identified - i am thinking of justice, internal affairs, competition and the environment - and it was also decided at that time that the commission should carry out a monitoring exercise, with the possibility, the hypothesis, of a safeguard clause, which could delay accession by one year. the work we have to do today is rigorous, it is objective. i think it shows progress, it shows the limits, it shows the efforts that still have to be made, and i think we fully support this approach, as elmar brock has just said. i would like to draw four more political conclusions from the reports. the first is that we have a common goal. the objective is the accession of romania and bulgaria together to the european union. it was the culmination of the great liberation movement that had taken place in eastern europe. there may be debates on the borders of the european union, which concern this or that country, but, of course, they do not concern romania and bulgaria, as the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs has just said. the question is not whether they will join, but when. secondly, the commission's report highlights both the progress made and the efforts still to be made. progress: they are not thin! i am not sure that this is a yellow card for me, because when i see what is said about freedom of expression, about justice, about the integration of minorities, about child protection, about competition, i say to myself that there is no need to take a negative view of the report, because all this is not nothing. at the same time, the important efforts to be made are underlined, and even the remaining points of concern: first, high-level corruption - for which clear institutions and total determination are needed - also external borders, which must be secure and controlled, but also human trafficking, the environment, the integration of the roma. that's not nothing either! third conclusion: i agree with the procedure now proposed by the commission. it is not the time to give a final opinion on the safeguard clause today. it would be premature. the monitoring must be continued in an extremely close manner and it is appropriate to have an appointment in april/may. i would remind the commissioner that the european parliament wishes to be fully involved in the final decision. today we are in the middle of the road: the clause is not desirable, neither for romania, nor for bulgaria, nor for the union, but it cannot be dismissed. i would like to conclude by reiterating a wish which i know is shared by almost every member of this house: we want romania and bulgaria to join, and we want them to do so by 1 january 2007. there is no question of that. it is intact after reading the reports, but as the commission report points out, the key to accession is in the hands of romania and bulgaria. we shall be there with the commission, in an unchanged spirit, which is friendship, which is trust, but which is also the requirement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to say how pleased i am to be speaking here in this house before the romanian and bulgarian observers. it is indeed an important first step towards their accession to the union. i would also like to mention the progress that i, as a member of our parliamentary delegation, have made in bulgaria over the last six years. what progress, and what progress shared by a large part of the population! but it was very difficult for the people, because it was a lot of effort. i think that in the west we cannot measure the cultural shock that the transition from a communist-led economy to a market economy represents. you all have noted the many european achievements, which have translated into clear progress in economic and political terms. but you also brought out many of the dark areas. like you, i must admit that the integration of minorities is a very difficult problem in these countries. i think of the roma, the handicapped, women and their roles and also homosexuals. but can we, who are facing similar problems in our own countries, learn from them? there are problems of corruption, property rights, security. to overcome them, bulgaria must undertake a genuine reform of the judicial system and its effective implementation, which will provide democratic guarantees for the entire population. bulgaria and romania will have to redouble their efforts in the next few months before the next progress report. but the union will also have to continue to provide aid, technical assistance and budgetary support without wavering. finally, i would like to say that if we are to be rigorous and demanding with these two new countries, we must also know that their arrival in the union will bring a new dimension to europe and that, finally, we will be able to turn a page together from yalta.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall confine myself to romania. in mid-july, we received particularly worried romanian farmers. they explained that the romanian authorities had lost all control over gm crops. no one, not even their minister, knows how many thousands of acres are covered. on the other hand, it is proven that romania is the country where gmos are the kings: soybeans, corn, plums, potatoes, etc. the gmo directive, commissioner, is not being applied at all and has been covered up in your report. i also found no mention of the rosia montana gold mine. the present government has nevertheless pledged itself against this project, which violates the very concept of sustainable development, a pillar of our european policies. but romania also has europe's environmental jewel with the danube delta. the management of the park has so far managed to strike a balance between the various activities of the delta and the protection of this fabulous biodiversity. but today, we are concerned about this management. the opening of the hunt on 15 september is thus detrimental to the preservation of this natural environment, and this shows that romania is really not on the right track in terms of the environment. i am, however, in full support of romania's accession to the european union, but i would ask the romanian authorities to take the environment seriously and to make a real commitment to protecting it.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, organized crime is a real scourge for our societies and our states of law. it is taking such a toll that we need to put in place effective tools to counter it. the proposal for a directive is part of the process of strengthening european judicial cooperation. it is based on two fundamental principles which we want to see strengthened: mutual recognition and harmonization of the definition of criminal offences and sanctions. international crime has networks all over the world and it is very difficult to fight it because it is generally based outside the union, in countries where the law is difficult to enforce, in countries plagued by corruption and destabilisation. terrorism is very often financed and promoted by organised crime. we have thus strengthened the definition of aggravating circumstances to include criminal organisations linked to terrorism, human trafficking and mafia-like organisations. we have great difficulty in having a good knowledge of this transnational crime, because our law enforcement agencies are themselves national and work within their own borders. the european union has europol, a key tool in the fight against organised crime. that is why we want europol to become an organisation of the european union, subject to the democratic control of the european parliament. we also have another tool called interpol, which is in my own city, lyon, france. it is regrettable that the relationship between europol and interpol is not clearly defined. it is an aberration to fight organized crime in one's own home! the member states must necessarily and rapidly coordinate all their actions to increase efficiency. for criminals, there are no borders. the proposal for a framework decision is therefore a step towards closer cooperation, but i think it is still not enough. our police and intelligence forces must have simple and effective tools. this is a real challenge for the union, a real challenge for our values.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased, on my own behalf and on behalf of the socialist group in particular, with the result of the vote in the committee on civil liberties, which has made it possible to improve considerably the draft report we had at our disposal. this is a matter on which we must have a common approach. it is no longer possible to pursue isolated policies on these issues. we believe that a policy of economic immigration is inseparable from an integration policy. we also want to point out that immigration can be a positive element for the european union. other ideas we are committed to are a european green card which would make it easier for people to find jobs and grant the right to vote to migrants who have been living in the union for at least five years, in local and european elections and not in national elections, contrary to what mrs klamt claimed a few weeks ago. we recall that the legalization of the system has helped to bring out of the shadows those who were illegally exploited by unscrupulous employers. we also stress the need to develop genuine integration policies. in short, it is a question of responding to an indisputable reality, that of the ageing of the european population and, consequently, the need for a new workforce. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. mr frattini has just told us about a draft action plan. i hope that he will take these very important points into account. the drafting of legislation on a subject of such importance would merit the full involvement of the european parliament. because today it is our responsibility, i would even say our duty, to finally decide on a common policy on legal immigration. let us not forget that by completely closing off legal channels of immigration, we are only contributing to the development of illegal immigration. let us honestly admit that all the policies which have hitherto been based solely and exclusively on repression have failed, that we may have to accept a different approach and in particular to raise the level of development of the regions of emigration. this is one way in which we can reduce the migratory pressure which they are the source of.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate and thank mrs ewa klamt for all the work she has done on this report on the management of economic migration. the best way to put in place a truly effective immigration policy that is acceptable to our fellow citizens is a balanced approach and that is what ewa klamt has proposed. welcoming everyone or making the myth of zero immigration a goal are not realistic or truly responsible positions. it is high time that europe looks at immigration with serenity, openness and humanity. we don't have to wait for more tragedies to worry about it. it is no longer possible for each country in the union to set up its own immigration policy in its own corner. no state can decide alone. what europe needs is a genuinely comprehensive, common and coherent approach. together, we must try to establish partnerships with countries of origin and transit to manage migration flows and receptions. let's face it! the construction of walls or barbed wire - which remind us of other times - the strengthening of border policy, the development of reception and detention centres are not solutions. these men and women do not come to europe for pleasure but to survive and feed their families. the real problem is the difference in development and living standards between our continent and the countries of origin. it is to reduce this gap that the european union must act, by means of a genuine policy of co-development. this involves funding concrete projects to encourage migrants to stay in their homes in proper and vital conditions. the second essential point is the establishment of common measures on legal immigration. short-term, one-off responses, such as mass regularization, are not the answer. take spain, for example, which recently legalized almost 700,000 people and is now facing the largest immigrant onslaught ever. that's not the answer. this is a possible solution, provided that it is backed up by a genuine common policy combining justice and security, allowing for a harmonious regulation of migration flows. my dear colleagues, europe has specialised structures and financial resources. so let's cut the long talk! let's get to it! let's not wait for human beings to die just because they wanted to come to us for a better life.
mr president, the scale of mass population movements is greater than any that have occurred in the past. regulations have been introduced to put an end to undeclared work, which denies any worker the right to benefit from the law. the continued presence of people without rights, in the most complete precariousness, forced to supply the lucrative illegal labour market or to give in to crime, raises inevitable social, moral and legal questions. the reasons for migration are many, but economic and social factors often predominate. it is worth recalling the four areas identified in tampere, which should be the best way of controlling migration flows and responding to the contemporary economic and demographic challenges. the first is to manage migration flows in a comprehensive way, to strike a balance between the humanitarian and economic aspects and the repressive aspects of illegal immigration. secondly, fair treatment of third-country nationals, guaranteeing them rights and obligations as close as possible to those of national citizens. thirdly, the development of a genuine partnership with the countries of origin, including co-development policies, in the management of flows. fourth pillar: a common asylum system in all the member states of the union. there are many fears that, with the recent rise of populism, so symptomatic of a fear of foreigners, the common approach to the question of immigration will take on a dangerously repressive tone, when it is well known that this policy will not solve the problems and that, on the contrary, it may accentuate them.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, saying is good, doing is better. the price of oil, the fight against pollution, road safety, the working conditions of road hauliers, the damage to infrastructure caused by lorries, all these things are now calling for the development of rail freight to be given top priority. but let me be worried and impatient, because where action should be taken quickly and vigorously, the european union is currently weak and weak! it is clear that the transeuropean rail infrastructure projects are progressing at snail's pace. i am also alarmed by mr barrot's participation on 12 july in a meeting of the road lobby, which was part of the prospect of a revision of the white paper on transport, moving away from rail to road. mr barrot is reported to have said that he would be more vigilant about the appropriateness of railway investments. the question on the agenda is therefore only one: is there really a will to promote a voluntary policy for the development of rail freight in europe? the rest is just literature.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr mauro, and mr bösch, who has been very helpful in this work. i speak on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism and would like to say that this regulation was expected. it is also very rich in innovations to better manage the funds to be invested in the transeuropean transport networks, whether it is the multiannual programming, which is necessary and which is linked to each project, or the ex officio release, so that the funds do not linger indefinitely in the drawers, or the increase in intervention rates, or also the establishment of european coordinators or the new financial guarantee instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that means if we have the key to the safe today, the safe is empty. i think we should avoid the discrediting that we did of essen's major projects. i think it is therefore very important that we fight the budgetary battle to the end, because otherwise we would be exposed to a very considerable loss of credit, and it would be a very considerable disappointment for all the regions of europe. in addition, it seems to me that the variable for adjusting expenditure is what is called joint projects, which are not priority projects. i am afraid that many regions and local authorities in europe are deluding themselves. the regulation is misleading: it says that it finances everything, not only priority projects but also joint projects within countries. we know very well that we cannot afford to do so and that we will concentrate only on crossborder projects and on the major priority projects. i think, therefore, commissioner, that we should have another sign. if we cannot cover everything, we must explain that we will intervene where there is community added value, that is to say mainly on large cross-border projects.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i would like to make our budgetary priorities clear. firstly, we need adequate resources to ensure that we have good and coherent economic analyses to establish a reliable economic outlook for the union. you know our commitment to the prince programme 'the euro, a currency for europe' because we also know that a second wave of the euro is coming and that we must continue to support the interests of citizens in all our countries. finally, we are keen to help smes by promoting a sustainable financial environment for the smallest structures and ethical financing instruments. as for support for the fiscalis programme, which aims to improve the functioning of the indirect taxation systems of the internal market, we are training the necessary national officials because, in our view, it is a guarantee of the future, security and prosperity of the union.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, allow me to make a preliminary remark. i think we should change these so-called budgetary debate procedures, because it is surreal to limit the speaking time of each committee to one minute. we really need to develop a new procedure! (applause) i would like to say that our rapporteurs and all the other members of the committee on budgets have taken a strategic approach to this budget. on the one hand, the union has needs, and there are many of them: traditional policies, agricultural policy, structural fund policy. there are many of them, and they are expensive. but we must not forget that the new needs of the union are constantly growing: in terms of employment, sustainable development, everything that the lisbon policy implies for research, networks, information for citizens, training, security in all senses of the word, security against terrorism, border security and security, for example, in the current context of avian influenza. on the other hand, the union also has duties, for example in terms of aid to the poorest and those awaiting accession to the european union, without forgetting aid to other countries, and here the balance sheet keeps getting heavier: victims of natural disasters, whether it be the tsunami, the typhoons or the earthquake in pakistan, or countries which have experienced conflicts - the balkans, afghanistan, iraq, gaza - the sugar reform. the burden on the european budget is constantly increasing even though we have a revenue problem. we are faced with an impossible mission, therefore absurd. this can't go on forever. hence our budgetary strategy, which has been to make large expenditure, not excessive at all. but we have not even been able to meet all these expenses. so we have to face great difficulties. i must admit, however, that our relationship with the commission is improving, and i think that this year we have made further progress in our working methods, precisely in order to better implement the budget. it must continue! we will have to step up our action on pilot projects, including preparatory actions. our action will have to be directed not only at the pilot projects which are most important to us, but also at all the pilot projects: for example, smes, aid to young people, especially in the framework of erasmus, or aid to the poorest countries, in favour of vaccination throughout the world. and last but not least, we need to keep spreading more information around us. but the problem is that, despite a very reasonable budget, which calls for 115 billion payment appropriations, corresponding to 1.04% of our gdp, we will find ourselves faced with an imperturbable, stoic council which has only one thing on its mind: do not touch my national budgets! i ask the council to cooperate more closely with us. we are aware of the internal difficulties, but you must also know that europe cannot move forward without genuine new resources. we have used nothing more in our budget than our rights, within the framework of the current financial perspective, which allows us to call for flexibility in a broad way. we have done so because this call for flexibility is essential to carry out the minimum policies that the european union demands if we really want to have a common future. finally, we want you to hear that parliament cannot continue to do the impossible: to do more with less.
mr president, commissioner, like all my colleagues, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr pittella, who has had a very difficult job with the commission. for mr dombrovskis, it was perhaps even more complicated, since he had a heavy job within parliament itself, always a difficult hand-to-hand combat between the committee on budgets and the bureau, and i believe that he has done this task perfectly well, even if it was sometimes difficult. however, since my colleague mrs trüpel has focused her remarks on the general budget, i should like to focus mine on parliament's budget to give it a date, because i think we are about to vote on a provision which is quite aberrant. for the first time in its history, parliament is abandoning the theoretical 20% threshold for administrative expenditure. i'm not a number fetishist, but i'm still gonna say a couple of things. firstly, i do not want to hear it said in this house that the bureau would be tinkering with the end-of-year capital injection that we have not been able to use. no, you can't! this is a long-term policy, and our parliament has systematically wanted to inject capital into the purchase of real estate. this has saved hundreds - i say hundreds - of millions of euros for taxpayers, because we bought our buildings ahead of time rather than paying absolutely absurd interest. in its resolution, our parliament says that we are giving up 20 million euros. but at the same time, we are prepared to ask the council for them again if we need them for real estate. i'm leaving this chamber in exactly four minutes to go negotiate the purchase of new buildings for parliament. so we already know we're gonna need that money! i can imagine how the council will laugh when it sees our request for an amending budget, in which we ask for what we are giving back today in a somewhat hasty manner, to give an external signal. it's very nice to send a signal from outside. but really, that 20 million would allow us to inject capital and make substantial savings. 20 million euros distributed among european citizens - i calculated what that was - it's still four cents, which we give back to each citizen. i think every citizen will be very happy to receive these four cents. however, with the injection of those 20 million, we could have pursued a different policy. 20 million is either too much or too little. in this case, it's mostly a rare inconsistency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last budget of the outlook, still only 111 billion euros, a paltry sum which does not correspond to the multiplicity of tasks - everyone has said it, catherine guy-quint, helga trüpel - which obviously leads to a waste of energy on the part of the coordinators, for example salvador garriga polledo on the part of president lewandowski and on the part of our rapporteur general, mr giovanni pittella, who has conducted the debate with refined abilities and acute italian subtlety. the problems remain the same year after year: agriculture is underbudgeted; there is always a distortion between the ambition of the lisbon discourse (to do as khrushchev did in the 1960s) - the knowledge economy - and the miserabilism of the means. this is why giovanni spends the first pages of his report stressing the absurdity of a budget of 700 million euros for transport and 650 million euros for education. and yet, we are still more than two billion short of expectations! the reason, of course, is political, but it is above all ideological: it is the rule of short-term equilibrium, the rule, stupidly arithmetical, that makes us not have the means of our ambitions. we must not only achieve a maastricht-style balance, but also a long-term balance in the economic cycle, and even a social balance. this is why the people are so disappointed. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is a welcome one.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr general rapporteur, mr giovanni, europe is currently experiencing a major institutional crisis, which is combined with economic problems which are often very serious in some countries of the union and which, as everyone knows, lead to a lack of political prospects. today, more than ever, our fellow citizens need to regain their faith in the future, to regain their faith in europe. europeans need to believe, and even want to believe, in major political projects, which cannot be implemented unless we give ourselves sufficient and ambitious budgetary means. almost all of us here believe that the draft budget proposed by the council does not correspond to the level of powers that our citizens want to give to the european union, nor to the new tasks that the union wants to give itself today. as the permanent rapporteur for the structural funds in the committee on budgets, i would like to stress the importance of these funds and the need for us to emphasize them, not only to make our action more readable to our fellow europeans, but also to strengthen the territorial balances in this europe of 450 million inhabitants. finally, while i am pleased that we are emphasizing our support for research, development and youth, i would like to protest against the totally insufficient figure for external action: that is the key to our credibility in europe and to the strength of the european dream!
in writing. as regards the regulation, i voted in favour of maintaining a dual legal basis. i consider that this text pursues the objectives of protecting the environment and harmonizing the regulations for the proper functioning of the internal market. the use of the article 175 basis alone would have had a negative impact on the functioning of the internal market, without any real environmental justification. i was opposed to the extension of the scope of the marketing ban, in particular because of the impact studies carried out by the commission and the lack of alternative solutions in the medium term. as regards the directive, i was opposed to the changes to the dates of application of the prohibitions on the use of fluorinated gases. the implementation deadlines of 2011 for new vehicle types and 2017 for all new vehicles are necessary because the change of refrigerant implies not only the development of new types of air conditioning but also a structural change in the locations of the various organs under the hood.
in writing. europe wants to combat large-scale organised crime, whose international ramifications are at the heart of europe. i'm all right. it is high time we paid attention to the damage caused by the criminal schengen agreements. although opposed to the creation of a european police force, a genuine european fbi, it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between the member states, in full respect of national sovereignty, in the fields of police, justice and the fight against transnational organized crime. europe does not need to have its own theodal committees whose ultimate purpose is to deprive the nation states of their royal prerogatives: to say the law and to apply the law. today, most police information is passed on and processed by interpol. the fixation of our eurocrats on the idea of a european agency overlapping with it generates, in addition to the costs inherent in the operation of any body, many complications, particularly in the absolute desire to harmonize the definitions of crimes and offences punishable or the scale of penalties and sanctions. let us give up the illusion of uniformity and finally concentrate our efforts on a coherent fight against all forms of crime, starting with the re-establishment of our national borders.
in writing. once again, the practices of the european patent office are being debated in this house. a few months ago, it was software and inventions implemented by computers. today, in a much more serious way, and one that touches deeply to our moral principles and to the essence of our humanity, it is about the technology of living. it is true that european legislation, its inadequacy and the legal vagueness it allows, are partly responsible for the current situation, which has made it possible to grant a patent on human germ cells or to render ineffective an opposition to a patent on embryonic stem cells. this legislation must be revised quickly. but the epo cannot be fully exonerated in this case. it has been said time and again that living things cannot be patented, that human beings, in whole or in part, at any stage of their development, cannot be patented. it is high time we put it in writing in a binding text.
in writing. issues related to human genetics should not be addressed in emotional and reductive terms. the european union cannot afford to lag behind its international partners and leave many questions unanswered. in view of the great fundamental principles and universal values which we defend, it is essential to exclude completely the risks of eugenics and reproductive cloning. but it is equally important to define what is possible and acceptable in genetic research, particularly in the context of therapeutic cloning and stem cell research to promote human health. we know that the framework for patenting biotechnological inventions is the essential foundation for developing new therapies which, for many patients, represent an unexpected opportunity.
in writing. this report, which is a response to the european commission's green paper on economic migration, is just one in a long line of dangerous and suicidal aberrations for the nations and peoples of europe. the most immigrationist and third worldist proposals are intertwined: recognition of the right to vote in local and european elections for non-european immigrants, relaxation of entry and residence conditions for economic migrants, approval of mass legalisation as a means of creating future prospects for illegal immigrants, launching awareness campaigns on the positive impacts of immigration policies and integration in school curricula of the history of migration, reaffirmation of the right to a large family reunification, possibility for economic migrant workers to benefit from social contributions of the host country after returning to their country or elimination of bank charges when funds are transferred from the host countries to the home country by migrant workers. finally, as a cherry on the cake, this report refuses to give priority to citizens of the european union before appealing to nationals of third countries. it's the eternal recurring: foreign preference, yes! preferably not european !
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr blair's speech in june contained at least three indisputable statements: first, the existence of a serious crisis of confidence between our fellow citizens and the european institutions; second, the need to change a conception of europe which has led to 20 million unemployed people; and, lastly, the usefulness of opening a substantive debate on what the european social model should be today. until then, no problem. i'll see you later. on this last point, the social model, the british prime minister even seemed to have a reference to offer to the whole of europe, the one he himself embodies in his own country. has the unemployment rate not been reduced to 5% of the working population? such a success was worth examining more closely. what is special about the blair model, then, that the priorities of the british presidency are in perfect harmony with those of the union as a whole? what could be more blairite than the action plan of the lisbon agenda, revised in 2005? but unlike other member states, in the uk most of these reforms have already been fully implemented or are in the process of being implemented. it therefore seemed useful to my group, before the extraordinary summit in hampton court, to know the assessment of this pilot experiment of liberal europe in the 21st century by the first concerned parties, the british themselves! so we spent two days last week in london, interviewing the main trade unions, feminist movements, labour elected officials and british academics. at the very least, what we have learned does not make us think that this type of model can enable the union to overcome the citizens' dissatisfaction with europe! so, about the job. we have heard from our interlocutors the many tricks used to deflate the unemployment statistics. the country has over two million people with so-called long-term illnesses and other disabilities, and, as it happens, in one wealthy town in southern england, only 2% of the population is unable to work, while in poor south wales the figure is 32%. the precarious situation, we were also told, is enormous, particularly for women, three fifths of whom work part-time, in jobs with low pay and no prospects, while men have some of the longest working hours in europe. the extent of poverty was another dimension of the situation highlighted by our british friends. in addition to the number of unemployed and working poor, one in four pensioners lives in poverty, in the whole country. the child poverty rate in london is a staggering 54%! as for public services, while no one has denied the increase in expenditure over the last three years, we have been told - and i quote - that the public sector's services and methods are modelled on those of the private sector, with a view to profitability. so 10,000 hospital beds have been eliminated in the last eight years. in our society, too often citizens are left to their own devices in the face of market forces, one researcher told us, summing up a general feeling. laugh, ladies and gentlemen, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh it off! a wonderful breath of humanity, on the other hand, came from the meeting with the trade unionists who this summer at british airways organized an illegal strike in solidarity with the 800 immigrant workers of the american subcontractor gate gourmet, who had just been fired en masse to make way for other, cheaper workers. together they fought back, and they won, and with them, dignity. mr president, we believe that the concept of the european social model is too precious to be underestimated. it cannot tolerate the icy waters of market law. when that is obvious, then, and only then, will europe be better off.
mr president, mr president of the commission, madam vice-president, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, many europeans are concerned not only about the course of globalisation, as tony blair has said, but also about the course of european policies. they now feel that europe does not really protect them from the most brutal effects of international competition and that these policies sometimes even infringe their social rights. the hampton court summit must respond to this concern; it must send a clear signal of the determination of europeans to defend their social model and thus to stop opposing it to competitiveness. no, it is not the european social model - contrary to what the prime minister claimed four months ago in brussels, before this parliament - which is responsible for the 20 million unemployed in europe, it is the weak growth in the large countries of the euro zone, the lack of coordination of fiscal and monetary policies, which do not support domestic demand and investment, and the insufficient efforts for research and innovation. on that last point, i see that we agree. but i also see that you have abandoned this rhetoric, which was supposed to boost your presidency but instead led it to the spot, to a certain isolation and the risk of being stuck. it is not by destroying the social model that we will restore the competitiveness of our economies and create confidence in europe, but by relying on europe's assets, on the quality of its infrastructure, including communications and energy - you mentioned this - on the qualification of its workforce, on better coordinated research centres and universities, on a common industrial policy in the sectors of the future. that is why we prefer the policies pursued by the nordic countries: more investment in research, more rights to lifelong learning, the maintenance of a high level of solidarity and redistribution, quality public services. their success shows that there is another way to achieve competitiveness than to destroy collective protection systems and reduce the level of solidarity. they show that reform does not necessarily mean regression. the reform and modernisation of social systems will only be accepted and make sense from the citizens' point of view if it means new protections, new opportunities, new weapons for everyone to face competition, change and globalisation. if reform and modernisation mean aligning our social systems and economies with the most savage market economies, we will not contribute to the confidence of the citizens, nor to the support for reforms. that is why it is essential to negotiate them with the social partners, to relaunch the social dialogue, with the aim of harmonizing the rights upwards, rejecting social dumping between member states, and that is why we are in favour of an internal market for services, but against the bolkenstein directive, which is not so much aimed at an internal market for services as at weakening the social model and weakening services of general interest. finally, there will be no dynamic europe without ambitious financial prospects. it is vital, especially for the member states, that we reach agreement in the council without further delay, and we welcome the announcement of agreement on a number of directives adopted by parliament at first reading and now blocked, the working time directive - but we hope that it will be in line with the vote in the european parliament at first reading, i.e. the abolition of the opt-out - you tell us what - , the directive on temporary agency work, the revision of the directive on european works councils, to strengthen the rights of employees in the face of restructuring, and finally the development of a framework directive on services of general interest. as regards the deregulation measures, ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, europe is in a state of disarray. she's in a state of constitutional collapse. she's on a tight budget. she's out of inspiration. and in this crisis the british presidency bears, though not alone, a share of the responsibility. you prevented an agreement on the financial perspective from being reached last june. and it seems that the only result of the presidency of the council so far has been the opening of negotiations with turkey, as if the flight forward has replaced the vision. mr president, you will not solve this crisis without reaching an agreement on the union's budget. you will not solve this crisis without the prospects of strong and democratic institutions. you will not solve this crisis with less europe. and above all, you will not solve this crisis by suggesting that europe can be reduced to economic agreements or a single market. europe is first and foremost a political project. mr president, europe is awaited, within the union, by all those who know that it is the only answer to globalisation and, outside the union, by all those who aspire to a better balance in the world. don't let them down! don't let them down again!
mr president, when you spoke in june, when you listened to mr blair, you thought everything was going to change. in fact, it took mr blair four months to make us proposals, proposals with which we can only agree because they are part of our own policy anyway. when it comes to talking about research and development, energy, training, immigration control, the challenge to democracy, there is nothing new in mr blair's proposals. all of this is just an empty shell. and from one big speech to another, europe in crisis is falling behind, while the world is moving very fast. thank you, mr blair! mr blair's presidency is an absent presidency, a presidency which offers nothing. so what progress has been made since july? i have looked around, but i have not yet found any measures that meet the expectations of the citizens. the opening of negotiations with turkey was indeed achieved, but it was not really what the european citizens wanted. mr blair lamented in june that only two of the world's top 20 universities were in europe. but what did he actually do to change that? mr blair said that research was the key to staying competitive. we all agree. but what are his practical proposals? what exactly does he do to prevent brain drain? finally, mr blair, what have you done to make europe like you? we do not want a europe sold on the altar of governmental cheapness! a budget at a discount will never be accepted in this parliament. and it is not a question of exchanging the british cheque for the cap, but of finally giving europe the means to implement its strategy. the european union is not built with dreams and fine speeches alone. i fear mr blair has over-meditated on shakespeare's words: "ambition makes one prefer defeat to a victory that tarnishes the leader's reputation".
mr president, the fight against organised crime and terrorism is one of the main concerns of your presidency. when i presented the british priorities in june, i reminded you that our fellow citizens want a europe of solidarity, protection and generosity and that therefore the fragile balance between security and freedom must be preserved. and this principle is still on the agenda for the data retention directive. i welcome the efforts of your presidency to promote codecision with parliament. we are taking up the challenge and are working towards an agreement at first reading. however, we are vigilant on several points which are very important to us, in particular data protection in this directive. only strict access rules and criminal sanctions will ensure that data retention does not come at the expense of the freedoms of our citizens.
the heads of state and government will be speaking tomorrow in hampton court about the challenges that globalisation poses to our economic and social models. the fact that this meeting, despite its political and budgetary implications, was shortened to one day is worrying enough. worse, the solution has already been found, according to gordon brown, the british finance minister. the 'protectionist impasse' must be ended. but where did mr brown see protectionism in europe? it is the most open and wto-compliant market in the world. our competitors are shamelessly dumping, creating barriers to trade, and providing disguised subsidies. the commission, for its part, is proposing a global adaptation fund of €500 million - €1 per capita! - to help those who have been made unemployed by its policies in their search for work. what cynicism! as long as you persist in trying to adapt our social models to globalization, there will be more and more unemployment, poverty and insecurity. the opposite is true: only accept globalization that does not run counter to the political objectives of prosperity and full employment.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to apologize to my colleague, mrs beer, who unfortunately was not able to take part in this debate and who would have liked to have been here. as our colleagues have said, i believe we can welcome the outcome of the parliamentary elections in afghanistan on 18 september 2005. although there have been some acts of violence in recent months, especially against candidates and poll workers, the election day was held in a climate of non-violence. this is a good sign for the path towards democracy and the rule of law in afghanistan. now we as europeans must make our commitment on the ground clearer. we are in favour of an expansion of the mission of the icaf, because its mission is reconstruction, nation building. this mission is important, commissioner, because it creates a climate conducive to the development of the country after decades of war. in this connection, one thing is very important to emphasize: the two missions, that of icaf and that of enduring freedom, must not be mixed. the second, led by the united states, is to fight terrorism, namely the taliban. these are combat operations. if we conflate the two reconstruction missions, we will lose the confidence of the population and we will tarnish the good reputation of this mission. the climate will also become very difficult for ngos, which are now cooperating with icaf. we must also raise the question, as you have done, madam commissioner, of drugs in the country. we need a project that takes into account all aspects of this problem, which concerns the field of agriculture, health and the afghan economy in general. this problem also affects neighbouring countries. i would like to make one last important point. the current government of president karzai has signed contracts for the indefinite stationing of us troops. we do not think this is a good thing for stability in the region. once the nation building is completed, afghanistan will be a sovereign nation that does not need foreign troops.
madam president, madam commissioner, when i accompanied last month the delegation led by my colleague and friend ignacio salafranca, i was returning for the fifth time in five years to this territory, which i have not only visited in the capital but also covered most of, from the panchir valley in the north to kandahar, the capital of south pashtun, via herat, mazar-sharif and bamian, the site of the giant buddha statues, victims of the taliban's senseless barbarism in 2001. i am always struck by the desire for peace and reconciliation which animates the vast majority of the population, a population saturated with violence after thirty years of civil war and foreign war, a population also vaccinated against any risk of a return to power of the fundamentalist islamists, from whom it has suffered so much under the regime of mullah omar. with each new contact, i can also see how difficult the task of reconstruction remains and how necessary, therefore, the help that the european union must continue to provide is. i shall only touch on one aspect of this aid, the return to security, which is still too often threatened in certain provinces. this assistance is now being provided by the combined efforts of the afghan national army and the international forces, which themselves are divided into two categories with different mandates: the us-led coalition, which is operating mainly on the pakistani border, and the fias, which you said and stressed was very largely european and is being gradually deployed throughout the rest of the country. this duality is a source of inefficiency: i welcome the fact that the atlantic alliance is now considering taking on the mission under a single command and under a new un mandate. in discussing the terms of this agreement, i would like to speak for the afghans themselves, madam commissioner. they insist on the urgent need to be protected from interference by their pakistani and iranian neighbours, and they feel that, once this is realised, they are able to solve their own problems among themselves.
for the greens/efa group madam president, your remarks clearly demonstrate, madam commissioner, that there is a real lack in baku. we really need a commission delegation to follow our policies, to help azerbaijan - because it is true that the situation in azerbaijan is not good - and so that we can, every few months, put that country back on the agenda. indeed, today more than ever, azerbaijan faces its destiny. the country must now demonstrate to the international community that it is on the side of democracy and that it respects the rules. azerbaijan must chart the path to a state of law. by joining the council of europe, azerbaijan has not only turned its face to europe, but has also embraced its values of democracy and human rights, which bring us all together here. today, the european union and azerbaijan, as well as the two neighbouring countries in the south caucasus, have come a long way together as they take part in the policy of new neighbourhood. in this sense they have new rights and obligations. the message that the european parliament must send to our friends in azerbaijan is very clear: if this country is willing to become a genuine democracy, free and transparent elections are the key. the parliamentary elections, which will take place on 6 november, must be held in a transparent manner and in accordance with the rules of the art, without pressure or repression. however, we are witnessing, during the pre-campaign and now, an increase in police repression, which is unacceptable. the brutality, violence and intimidation of the opposition and its lack of access to the media are not acceptable. in our previous resolution we asked both sides, the government majority and the opposition, not to resort to violence, so that the election campaign could be conducted in the best possible conditions. we had every reason to be optimistic at the time, following the presidential decree of last may which organized these future elections. still optimistic about the number of candidate registrations for the 125 electoral districts; even dissidents were allowed to participate! but today, as you said, we can see that as the election approaches, the tension is rising and the rules are not being applied at all. by sending a delegation of meps to monitor the smooth running of the elections, the european parliament is showing its interest and willingness to support the ongoing democratic process in azerbaijan. today we must call on all the parties in the race, and especially the ruling majority, to demonstrate that this country is up to its ambition: to hold free and transparent elections, where each citizen, with his or her own ballot, will choose the candidates who will lead the country tomorrow. i will remind you - because it is very important, madam president - that azerbaijan's challenges are colossal: the resolution of the frozen nagorno-karabakh conflict, the rise to power... (the president withdrew the floor)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate mrs jäätteenmäki on her report on the revised barcelona process. i'm getting to the point. next month, european heads of state or government will meet with their mediterranean counterparts to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the barcelona process. the euro-mediterranean partnership was to offer the ambitious prospect of a better and multifaceted future, both politically, economically, socially and culturally. ten years later, the results are mixed. we have created a space for discussion and cooperation with our mediterranean neighbours, which i welcome, but all the objectives set have not yet been achieved. the conflict in the middle east is not resolved. the region is still unstable. human rights and democratization are not progressing, or not progressing sufficiently. the southern mediterranean and its people have not enjoyed the expected economic and social prosperity. unemployment, especially among young people, is still too high and is causing hopeless migration flows. on the economic side, i will give just one example: the dismantling of the multi-fibre agreement, which adds to the difficulties facing the region. even if the new cumulative rules of origin proposed by commissioner mandelson are moving in the right direction, south-south economic integration is still far from being achieved. we are the preferred partner in this region and all hopes are turned to us. caring for these populations means first responding to their concerns and aspirations, that is, our ability to achieve greater social cohesion and sustainable economic development. the new neighbourhood policy proposed to us is a positive element, because it requires more democracy, even if aid will have to be more widely shared between our neighbours to the east and to the south. i hope that this new policy will pursue the objectives of the barcelona process and take account of the specific difficulties of this area. i am also concerned that the neighbourhood and partnership instrument as proposed by the commission does not contain a specific reference to the millennium development goals. in the globalized world in which we live, liberalization cannot be the answer to the problems we face. this applies to the protection of our environment - we are responsible for our planet - but even more acutely to the question of public services relating to the basic needs of the people, namely education, health, culture, access to water and energy, which the committee on international trade, of which i am a member, proposed and which the committee on foreign affairs did not accept. we agree to consider our work unfinished. let's agree tomorrow to do a joint work.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i believe that mrs wallström and you, commissioner, have, like others, pointed to an issue where the barcelona process has not delivered on all its promises. this is obviously a question of human rights and democracy. to see this, it is enough to take stock of the situation of press freedom in the region - this was done at the invitation of mrs patrie this afternoon - or of the situation of freedom of expression in tunisia on the eve of the world summit on the information society. the evidence is the numerous violations of the rights to freedom of association, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly; justice, which suffers from many shortcomings in many countries; the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of expression. the barcelona process has therefore not fulfilled all its promises on these issues. as the rapporteur has said, i believe that it also has shortcomings in terms of women's rights, economic and social rights and the mechanisms put in place for an effective democracy and human rights policy. despite all this, the barcelona process has made it possible to set up mechanisms and places for political dialogue on these issues, and thus laid the foundations for the establishment of an ambitious policy to promote human rights and democracy. you said, madam commissioner, that the issue of migration would be at the centre of the discussions at the barcelona summit. in this connection, let me draw your attention to one point. i believe that on the issue of fighting terrorism and fighting illegal immigration, we are encouraging countries to violate international law. this is quite clear and has just been illustrated by the incidents in lampedusa which allegedly involve libya, and more recently by the incidents in the spanish enclaves of ceuta and melilla and in morocco. the call for these countries to contain the flow of sub-saharan refugees is an incitement and a push for human rights violations. before seeking to repress the pressure of what it calls "illegal migrants", european politics itself should define its legal migration policy. but you know that we're not making much headway on this. i am convinced that civil society and parliamentarians can help improve the implementation of our human rights and democracy policies in this region. that is why i would very much like the commission to be present in rabat at our next special meeting of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mr jäätteenmäki, on his analysis. i share them. i thank you, commissioner, for your firm words. whether through the barcelona process, the association agreements or, more recently, the european neighbourhood policy, europe is a partner of the countries of the southern mediterranean. this partnership has an economic, social and cultural dimension, but above all it must be based on mutual recognition of a political foundation, composed of indivisible common values: democracy, fundamental freedoms, human rights, equality between men and women. among the fundamental freedoms are the right to individual security, freedom of conscience and freedom of expression. at a time when human rights activists are prevented from holding their meeting in tunisia, at a time when we are hearing the findings of the mehlis report on the assassination of mr hariri, we must remember this. in this respect, freedom of the press, which i want to stress tonight, and the status of journalists are perhaps the best synthesis of all these shared values. without individual security for these journalists, no freedom of speech! without freedom of the press, there is no democracy! freedom of speech is not a western value: it shone more in the islam of the umayyads than in the darkness of the inquisition. that is why, after the murder of samir kassir, after the heinous attack which most recently affected may chidiac, i took the initiative, in agreement with my colleagues in the delegation for relations with the mashreq countries on the one hand and in the committee on foreign affairs on the other, to organise a hearing today, during which we heard journalists from the whole of the euro-mediterranean area. we have symbolically handed over to the president of the european parliament this morning an appeal for a free press in the euro-mediterranean area. i propose that we engrave press freedom in the marble of the barcelona process as an indispensable condition of our partnership agreements.
mr president, mr ombudsman, this is the 10th anniversary of the european ombudsman, as our rapporteur, mr manolis mavrommatis, has reminded us in a very comprehensive and very pleasant report. you are competent, mr ombudsman, forgive me for saying so, only for matters of maladministration. so, in the matter of my greek friends' feta cheese, you have not recognized yourself as competent for feta cheese, which is made from sheep's milk in lozère in southern france. on the other hand, you are competent in the area of violations of fundamental rights, right here in the european parliament, that is to say 10% of your activity. for example, the fundamental right to speak one's own language: the 35 unregistered members do not have interpretation services at group meetings. why would you do that? because between the ape and the political homo sapiens, the unregistered is the missing link of humanity. so, with non-educated people, to communicate, we scratch under the armpit, we stick out our tongues, not grumble. that is why, of course, we do not need interpreters! second example: everyone has the right to housing, water and toilets here in parliament. well, we non-registered people have offices without toilets, without water! that is why we are calling for the application of the geneva conventions on the rights of political prisoners, including the right to go to the toilet. that is why i am proposing, mr ombudsman, that you be nominated for the sakharov prize next year if you denounce the violation of the human rights of the 35 deputies deprived of their biological rights. it is true that the arrival of the turks will make things better for the non-registered, since we may be entitled to turkish offices. how unfathomable the lord's ways are! the arrival of turkey will finally make it possible to ensure respect for political minorities, for those who are not registered in the european parliament...
mr president, the situation has changed, since mr poettering, a democrat, has finally joined the position of his group, which was the position i myself had defended at the conference of presidents, and which was to say that no tactical considerations should prevent parliament from expressing itself on the urgency of the human rights situation in western sahara (applause) and that it was more logical for parliament to express its position before sending a delegation on, in particular, the very serious revelations that have just been made, with the discovery of mass graves, to shed light on this issue and to invite the moroccan authorities, to invite everyone to work with the new un representative. i therefore welcome the position that has just been expressed and that will certainly be the position of our whole house, namely to have a vote at the end of our debate this afternoon.
mr president, what i am about to do is not conventional. on the next line, we have two amendments. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals during transport. we must vote on the amendment proposed by the committee on budgets. the next amendment calls for an additional 1 million for orphan drugs, which the medicines agency needs. i would like to know whether it would be possible for us to vote on amendment no 231 so that the agency can work this year with all the necessary resources. you understand that technically, that's not correct. i couldn't agree more. but since the vote in the committee on budgets we have received additional information. if it were possible to vote on amendment no 231, which would add one million euros to the margin, it would allow us to improve working conditions considerably in this area which is so important to us. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we can also vote on 779, but i would like to see an additional €1 million for the orphan medicines agency in addition to 779. i want to tell you that if someone disagrees, we are obliged to accept it.
in writing. in a month's time in barcelona, the euro-mediterranean partnership must be re-founded around a few strong ideas. first, the fight against poverty, by developing and financing a mediterranean version of the millennium development goals and by making progress on solidarity mechanisms comparable to those of european regional policy. the promotion of democracy and human rights must be placed at the heart of the partnership, with the practical implementation of article 2 of the association agreements and the generalisation of the subcommittees on human rights. the fight against discrimination against women and for gender equality must be the subject of a specific and priority eu policy. it is women who will be the vectors of a real rapprochement, that of the peoples and cultures around the mediterranean basin. common responses to the question of migration. stop the hypocrisy and cynicism! let's not think we can keep our hands clean by letting our partners on the south bank do the dirty work. we must lay the foundations for a common management of migration flows, through a generous and supportive approach to the question of the movement of people in the mediterranean a 'sustainable development zone' in the mediterranean, with a programme to clean up the mediterranean sea by 2020, with a precise timetable for its implementation. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, i shall speak on the same subject as our colleague mr sifunakis earlier, but in a slightly different way. we do not necessarily share the same view of events in france, but what is extraordinary is that it is not possible to discuss them in this parliament. if these events were to take place in latin america, africa or asia, resolutions would be written about them. since the beginning of these events, 9,000 fires have been started, buses have been burned, bus depots, schools, kindergartens, kindergartens, libraries, sports centres, youth centres, clinics, social centres and even churches. it is the police who are attacked, but also the firefighters who risk their lives, the bus drivers, the subway drivers, not to mention these two innocent dead, respectable french people who were lynched in front of their families. and the european parliament refuses to talk about it. never has there been such omerta in an assembly which calls itself a parliamentary assembly and where views, however different, however contradictory, must be allowed to be expressed freely, as they are expressed about other states throughout the world.
mr president, i wrote to you at the end of last week to inform you of the recent events concerning human rights violations in tunisia, but my letter is already out of date: everything must be expected, absolutely everything, in this country. on the eve of the opening of the world summit on the information society, political activists, who were supporting political and social figures campaigning for the basic right to expression and who are currently on hunger strike, were violently beaten. among them was mokhtar trifi, the president of the tunisian league for human rights, whom you know and who attended our last session. last saturday, a journalist from "libération" was stabbed after publishing information about human rights violations in tunisia. the situation is therefore dramatic and i believe that, even if our ad hoc delegation is fully informed and is preparing to support both the alternative summit and civil society in tunisia, we should perhaps also, mr president, shake the council's coconut tree about the situation in tunisia, in particular by asking the council to convene an urgent meeting of an association council to assess the agreement that binds us to that country, which, of course, is more disappointing every day.
mr president, i thank you very much for the time i have been given to speak, but you see, since 1999, five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor have been imprisoned in libya. they were sentenced to death in 2004 because four hundred libyan children and adolescents had been infected with the aids virus at the hospital in benghazi. everyone knows that neither the bulgarian nurses nor the palestinian doctor are responsible for this contamination, and yet they have been taken hostage and have been sentenced to death since may 2004. they'll know tomorrow whether their appeal has been accepted or not. mr president, we have often raised this problem in the european parliament, but we really must join in all possible efforts to free these people who are victims of a policy that escapes them and completely escapes us, just as we must try to help the palestinian children who are infected.
madam president, this report states that the european union can make a significant contribution to the process of globalisation by promoting its social model and promoting it at international level. but with 20 million unemployed in europe, what social model are you talking about? the lisbon process is a failure? the debt of states on the verge of bankruptcy, social insecurity, crushing taxation, the new poverty of the european quarter of the world? and all of this, in your view, constitutes an exportable social model? if you want to get a concrete picture of the social dimension of globalisation, i invite you to come and tour the 300 french cities which have been the scene for the past 18 days of social unrest, ethnic riots and anti-french hatred, with cars being burned, schools, nurseries, gymnasiums and hospitals being destroyed, not to mention the systematic and widespread attacks on firefighters and police. you will thus be able to see the concrete and visible consequences of the ultra-liberal, ultra-globalist and ultra-immigrationist economic policy pursued for the last twenty-five years by the european institutions and the member states, with france at the forefront. your social model of integration is actually a total model of disintegration: economic and industrial disintegration, social disintegration, cultural disintegration, institutional disintegration. in addition to the relocation of firms to countries with low social costs of production, there is also the relocation of people from poor countries to countries with a high level of social protection. the widespread social dumping due to globalisation is a real economic bonus to social regression. your economic globalisation is in fact the globalisation of social dumping and the globalisation of migration. foreign populations are entering europe en masse, while companies are leaving europe en masse. we must now endure not only the suburban breakdowns but also the economic breakdowns of our industries, to which must be added the political and institutional breakdowns of our national identities, our national units, our sovereignty and our values of civilization. economic globalisation and forced migration will eventually impose on the peoples of europe a multi-communal and multi-ethnic society, positive discrimination, compulsory ethnic mixing and the level of social protection of communist china. this is clearly not our model and it is vital today to stop this infernal machine. (applause from the right)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank our colleague mr brejc for his report. it comes just in time for the opening of the wto in hong kong. the form of globalisation we know today has always been presented to us as positive and wealth-creating. it has its winners, but to plagiarize the former french prime minister, it is a new aristocracy of money and power that today accumulates profits and leaves out a majority of losers. not only do we see a worsening of inequalities in north-south relations, but we find that these inequalities are now reflected in south-south relations and within a western society itself where the gap between the richest and the poorest has increased dramatically in recent years. the search for social globalisation has resulted in endangered social rights, undignified working practices and dangerous imbalances. this new situation requires us to look at the world with a different kind of detachment. we must take note of the concern of our fellow citizens about this process of liberal, non-transparent and uncontrolled globalisation. but who can blame them for fearing for their jobs, their future, their democracy and the environment of the planet on which they live? no one did. for what have we done to respond to these legitimate concerns? if i were to take the most recent example, the recent united nations summit in new york, the results have been disappointing. disappointing in terms of concrete commitments to the poorest countries, disappointing in terms of reform of international institutions. europe must act in a coherent and credible manner. it is an example to be followed in this respect at the multilateral level. that is why it is a priority to integrate high social and environmental standards into trade rules and to ensure that they are respected in the bilateral agreements we sign. europe must also set an example internally. to do this, it must improve its model, implement social harmonization from above, stop the dismantling of public services and reject a market europe. europe is an opportunity, a hope. it must be the main actor in another globalisation.
the agenda calls for the oral question to the commission on the digital switchover by giles chichester and etelka barsi-pataky, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0083/2005 - b6-0333/2005).
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your time. i think the word revolution was rightly used in the debate, because the shift to digital broadcasting is a revolution in its own way, and every major technical shift like this has general implications. after all, the evolution of human civilization is the evolution of the degrees of information processing -- first traditional information, then writing, then mass dissemination of information, then electronic dissemination of information -- and that's the path we're on right now. we're moving on to the next step, and it looks like artificial intelligence will follow. each of these fractures has a whole range of consequences, and in the discussion on many aspects you mentioned the possible consequences. i would like to emphasize two things. first, the commission's approach is based on what the commission is entitled to do, i.e. it is not a question of substance but of a technical and organisational solution to the problem. in general, it is clear that this solution will bring more options, more quality and is likely to reduce costs. i expect and anticipate that this debate will continue in various phases until 2012, and this is extremely valuable for us, because it is not possible to take a stand and find an operational solution to change this meaning without a real democratic debate. in spite of all this, i think that the basic wording used by the commission and used by me in my opening remarks will continue to apply, i.e. to ensure that the spectrum released by the analogue switch-off is used in a way that is of maximum benefit to society.
i have received, in accordance with rule 108 (5), a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote on this motion for a resolution will take place on wednesday.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on 'secret detention centres' in europe.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, following reports in some reputable newspapers about the allegation of the existence of secret prisons run by the cia in some member states of the european union and also in some candidate countries, the commission would point out that a considerable number of member states and candidate countries have already made public statements categorically refuting the allegations. so far, the alleged facts have not been corroborated even in terms of judicial evidence. it is important to be absolutely clear that such events, if they had actually occurred, would have been a serious breach of the principles of the european union, apart from any reference to the member states' legislation, including criminal law, which punishes events and incidents similar to those described. the commission would point out that, according to article 6 of the treaty on european union, the union is founded and lives on the principles of democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and, of course, the rule of law, principles which are also common to the national legislation of the member states, which provide for criminal law to punish violations of fundamental rights and the rights of the human person. it is therefore clear that the member states are bound by these principles, but they are also bound by international legal obligations, in particular those deriving from the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms and those deriving from the convention against torture. it is also clear - as we all know - that when the enlargement process of a candidate country is completed, that country must have acquired a level of institutional stability to ensure full respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights, as well as the protection of all fundamental freedoms, in order to become a member of the european union. this is a principle established by the copenhagen european council back in 1993 and is therefore a pillar of the so-called copenhagen acquis. in the light of these principles, it is clear that we consider it necessary for the member states and the applicant countries to verify the accuracy of such news reports by all the legal means at their disposal and in the appropriate forms. the commission welcomes the recent decision of the committee on legal affairs and the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe to address the issue of the accusation of the establishment of secret prisons in europe and we have already asked the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe to be informed of future developments in this extremely important and sensitive matter. the commission will continue to follow closely all developments concerning these allegations. we will do so at member state level, in compliance with european legislation, and at international level, with particular reference to any action that the authorities of the united states of america may decide to take on the whole matter. in conclusion, i can assure you that i and the commission will keep parliament informed and in constant dialogue with it on the developments in this matter.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr vice-president, major newspapers have indeed dealt with this problem, in particular the washington post, which recently announced in its columns that secret prisons, run by the cia, would be located on the territory of the european union, particularly in eastern europe, to be precise. the newspaper did not name the countries involved for security reasons, but it should be noted that an investigation by human rights watch indicated that in 2002, some "ghost" prisoners were indeed held by the cia. it should be recalled that the us congress also published a report which mentions questionable practices used by the united states in the transfer of prisoners to third countries in order to be able to use torture in interrogations. in addition, the recent allegations that the bush administration is seeking to have the us congress grant the cia an exemption from the prohibition on ill-treatment of prisoners is of the utmost concern to us. we need all the light we can get on these revelations. we cannot accept, as you have said, areas of lawlessness in europe and the world. we have always opposed in this house the use of a legal vacuum for the treatment of prisoners at guantanamo. we cannot therefore allow such prisons to exist in europe. if the facts are established, they must be stopped immediately. if they're false, we need to gather evidence to finally shut down the rumors. we therefore ask the commission to investigate these allegations, as you have recently promised to do in the press, mr vice-president. the results of this survey should be presented to the european parliamentarians; i think you'll agree. what measures does the commission intend to take to ensure that the european convention on human rights, the european convention for the prevention of torture and the european charter of fundamental rights, in particular article 4 thereof, are properly respected throughout the european union? the best way, as we have already said, and it is not superfluous to recall, to combat fanatics and terrorists is to oppose them to our values of freedom and protection of fundamental rights.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i think we have done well in provoking this debate because what commissioner frattini is telling us is slightly different from the first announcements and you at least acknowledge that if there are indeed such places with mysterious names - black sites, salt mines containing ghost prisoners, etc. - then the treaty and article 6 would be considered in default. it's a first step. i think we're going to have to ask you to do more on this. why would you do that? because the issue is of utmost importance. these are people who are allegedly detained without trial for an indefinite period of time and without any recourse, and who are therefore more than likely to be subjected to torture, inhuman and degrading treatment. so we have potential violations of the european convention on human rights, articles 3, 5 and 6, as well as the convention against torture and the international covenant on civil and political rights. the new fact is that two countries, one in the european union and the other in the process of joining the european union, are mentioned as having hosted such centres. i say "sheltered" because these countries now deny the allegations and the reports in question date from 2002 and 2003. there could therefore be some compatibility between the current denials and the reality presented in the reports, including those of human rights watch, but the recognition that the possible existence of such centres may constitute a violation of the treaty on european union and article 6 of the treaty calls for something else than your statements, commissioner. you say that you leave it to the member states. you say that you will look closely at the inquiry being carried out by the council of europe - and i should like to inform you that the european parliament's committee on human rights has already decided to invite mr marty as soon as he starts work. you say that you are waiting to see what the united states will decide on the matter, you said that you wanted technical research, and i think that is largely inadequate. you, commissioner, must simply launch an inquiry to shed light on this situation which is damaging to the foundations of the union and its credibility on the international scene.
it is disappointing and frustrating that the insurance declaration is once again negative. this means that there is still no guarantee that expenditure is legal and regular, and that doubts persist about the reliability of accounting practices. who is to blame for this? the member states for the methodology used and the poor implementation of the payment system? the commission, which, under article 274 of the treaty, is responsible for the implementation of the european budget? the court of auditors' observations provide some lessons: it is essential to give national administrations responsibility so that european appropriations can be properly accounted for. the court must also clearly specify the concrete measures to be taken by the commission to achieve a positive sdr. in the current context of europe's discredit, the weaknesses of management and control systems must not allow eurosceptics to undermine the union's fundamental principles and policies aimed at strengthening territorial, economic and social cohesion. the commission and the member states must step up their efforts to achieve a positive sdr; the credibility of the union and the confidence of its citizens are at stake.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2005 was not an easy year for europe. europe has had to deal with terrorism, social uncertainty and natural disasters. on the institutional side, we have had to face all these difficulties without the help of a constitution and without having a multiannual budgetary framework. the union has been forced to question the process of integration itself, but we are convinced, our commission is convinced, that the european union has never been more necessary than it is today. we are proud of the clear and decisive response that the commission has been able to give to this situation. working closely with parliament, we have all risen to the challenge. some examples of what we have achieved together are: the renewal of the lisbon strategy; a revision of the stability and growth pact to strengthen the credibility of europe's economic governance; more solidarity through the adoption of a renewed social agenda; full recognition of the driving role of social dialogue and its actors; the fight for a cleaner environment through the adoption of thematic strategies and the continuation of our international action on climate change; improved security through the implementation of our ambitious hague programme alongside many other initiatives including our proposal on data retention; the promotion of european values in the world; a commitment to support the union's ambitious efforts to open and strengthen a new strategic partnership with our partners and development partners, such as the united states, china and turkey; and further dialogue and partnership with our key strategic partners, such as the united states and croatia. the commission has assumed its responsibilities. our guiding principle was and remains the general european interest. the initiatives we took in 2005 are the first concrete expression of the strategic objectives we have set for the next five years. the programme we are presenting today remains faithful to the objectives we adopted at the beginning of our mandate: prosperity, solidarity in an enlarged europe, security and strengthening europe's role in the world. these objectives remain relevant. they are shared by the three institutions, which make them the main focus of their intervention. i see this as a sign of the partnership for european renewal which i have wanted to place at the centre of our action. the framework agreement is a concrete expression of this partnership between our two institutions. it represents a qualitative leap in the development of policy initiatives. it has enabled close and targeted dialogue between parliamentary committees and commissioners on how best to translate the annual political strategy into concrete initiatives. i would like to say that this dialogue has made a positive contribution to the programme i am presenting to you today. i hope that you will take your ideas, including those you have developed in today's debate, back to action in 2006. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unlocking europe's full potential is the approach the commission has taken in drawing up its legislative and work programme for 2006. what are the key actions for 2006? first, the chapter on prosperity. 2006 will be a crucial year for the implementation of the renewed lisbon strategy. the commission will play its full role in promoting, guiding and supporting the efforts of the member states. the national reform programmes of the member states, which we are already analysing, will play a fundamental role in this process. we must link these programmes to our political priorities, improve the economic governance of the union and strengthen national and european efforts for reform and investment, investment at national but also at european level for the economy of tomorrow, innovation, knowledge and new infrastructure. these two types of investment, at national and european level, must go hand in hand. we must support these efforts with other initiatives, such as proposals to complete the single market, the promotion of geographical and occupational mobility and, for example, the creation of a european institute of technology. i would particularly like to stress the proposals parliament itself made in its resolution on the work programme on the single market. i would like to emphasize in this context the importance of measures to provide a favourable framework for the development of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the main sources of job creation in europe. the second aspect is that of solidarity. solidarity remains a fundamental component of the european construction, and i am speaking here of solidarity between employers and employees. i also want to talk about solidarity between generations, through good management of natural resources, including marine resources, and the implementation of a new strategy for sustainable development - and we will present this new strategy in december. solidarity between generations also involves creating jobs for young people and finding equitable solutions for financing pensions. nor should we forget solidarity between men and women, between the more prosperous and the less prosperous member states, or between the union and the rest of the world, especially in relation to the developing countries. 2006 will be a crucial year for attacking on all these fronts. in the security area, priority will be given to improving coordination in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. we have seen the influence of community legislation in these areas. i can assure you, for example, that one of the accused in the london attacks was extradited from italy to the united kingdom in less than 50 days. such a procedure would certainly have taken several years in the absence of community instruments. so this is an area where, clearly, citizens, including citizens of the countries least enthusiastic about european integration, are asking more, not less, from europe, from the european union. we will also be very active in the area of illegal immigration, as we have said. the problems that some of our member states have encountered are not specific to them: in fact, they are problems that affect the whole of europe. we must resolutely combat this scourge in cooperation with the member states. of course, the immigration problem is not just a security problem. it does have a security dimension, of course, because we have to fight organised illegal immigration. but we must also take action on development aid in the countries of origin. we must combine our approach to immigration with our approach to development and, at the same time, we must do everything we can to ensure the smooth integration of communities of foreign origin into our countries. we also intend to continue our work in the field of health and consumer protection, which is also part of the wider field of safety. a key element will also be the development of a rapid reaction capability for civil protection. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 96 priority initiatives we are presenting to you are proof of our commitment to these objectives: prosperity, solidarity, security and the projection of europe in the world. but their credibility will also depend on their quality. the commission will therefore apply rigorously the enhanced methods of its better regulation programme. these methods are not an end in themselves but a means of transforming the intentions we share into a reality, a reality which our citizens can actually experience in their daily lives. for 2006, our ambition extends to europe as a global partner with greater influence. and on this front, 2006 must also bring concrete results: concrete results in terms of the enlargement process and the stabilisation and association process; concrete results for our neighbourhood policy, which is a very important policy for stability in europe and in its closer geographical context; concrete results in the fight against poverty, making our promise to double aid a concrete reality; and, finally, results in promoting european values in the world, in particular by supporting the political transition and reconstruction in afghanistan, iraq and palestine. one issue will dominate the international economic agenda in 2006: the completion of the doha development round. pascal lamy said that adjusting expectations for the ministerial in hong kong next month does not mean lowering our ambition for the doha development round. i agree. the round is important to opening markets and freeing up trade. in the european union strong exports boost our growth. we want the round to succeed. that is why we made our recent strong and conditional and i should like to underline conditional offer on agriculture. europe has done more than anyone to keep this round on track. our commitment remains but now others have to move. the focus of the round must be broader than just agriculture, important as it is. there must be balance. therefore i call on our wto partners to engage in a full negotiation, including on goods and services. europe does not need more lectures from countries that close their markets to the poorest and, in some cases, keep tariffs on agricultural products higher than our own. i do not accept that some people put the blame on europe because of this round. in the european commission we believe that these negotiations cannot simply be conducted for the benefit of a few large farm exporters in very rich or fast-developing countries. there is a huge difference between the very poorest developing countries and those that are growing rapidly. it is time to stop lecturing and start negotiating. the costs of failure are high, not just for all trading nations, but also for the fair, rules-based international trading system we have worked so hard to create, as well as for global business confidence. the international economy now needs some good news, especially because of the high costs of energy. so we have an interest in this round succeeding. that is not only in our interest, it is especially in the interest of the poorest countries. that is why the commission will put forward ideas before hong kong on how to make sure this really is a development round. tomorrow we will discuss the follow-up to hampton court. the new consensus that began to emerge there links up with our debate today. we saw, at the informal summit, a confirmation of the commission's analysis on how to safeguard our values in a globalised world. if we want to preserve our values we must modernize our policies. we saw an agreement on areas where people want europe to lead: science and innovation, higher education, energy, border management and immigration. we also need a more coherent europe as a global actor. so many of our internal community policies now have an external element: environment, migration, transport, energy and others. that is why the commission will present ideas next year on improving the coherence of the european union's external actions. we are now preparing a concept paper on that matter. the european institutions must play a central role in this process, rebuilding a consensus and reconnecting with citizens. that is why i have announced today that the commission will come forward with a new truly european energy policy in 2006. it is good that at all levels in the european union people now understand that it makes no sense to go it alone when dealing with energy challenges. even those who were most reluctant now see that this is a european issue and that we face the same challenges, such as rising prices, falling reserves, increasing dependence on a few parts of the world, and also the need to protect our environment. we need a coherent energy policy for the 21st century, one that looks at all these issues and options in a calm, determined way. we often forget what a remarkable achievement european integration is. it is all too easy to forget that one of the achievements of 2005 was to make an enlarged european union work and much of the credit for that must go to the new member states. i think we can, and will, do even better in 2006. very often we forget that now our europe is not the europe in miniature. now europe consists of 25 member states that are free, independent and living in peace and democracy. the challenge is to make this enlarged europe work. this year we made a very important contribution to meeting that challenge. at the end of this week i am going to prague and budapest to see and support this new enlarged european union. i am confident, because there is a growing understanding that the endless debates about widening or deepening and about the market or social protection are at an end and that even in the midst of the difficulties we know, there is a growing awareness that we need a more european dimension if we want to solve the problems we face. a new consensus is emerging that a powerful, dynamic europe cannot have 25 mini-markets in services or 25 mini-markets in energy, but that a single market also needs a powerful, dynamic political and social europe. the market alone is not enough. the market alone cannot address concerns such as air safety, global warming or the integration of immigrants. yes, this is about pragmatic europe, but pragmatism with principles, adding value in areas where we can make a difference, shaping policies that provide an answer to globalisation and meet the challenges and opportunities of our ageing population, a europe that is part of the solution and not of the problem. i see a parallel with the activity relating to the period of reflection in which you, as members of the european parliament, are heavily involved. we must show as institutions that we are listening carefully to our citizens and that we are addressing their concerns. that is why we will implement our plan d for dialogue and democracy and count on open cooperation with parliament. i have left perhaps the most important message about the 2006 work programme until last. let's be honest with each other. the plans for 2006 will count for little without agreement next month on the financial perspectives. that agreement is the test of whether europe is on the move. how can we deliver for our citizens on prosperity, solidarity and security without the means to achieve them? agreement on the financial perspectives is a key to unlocking europe's potential in 2006. an enlarged, more diverse european union needs more investment. we have a duty of solidarity to the new member states that look to the european union for support in their rapid and remarkable progress in modernisation and reform. we need a fair sharing of this burden. no member state can do enlargement on the cheap. i trust in the common sense of the british presidency to deliver a fair and balanced agreement next month. i hope that it will do so by strengthening, not reducing, the ambition the commission and parliament share for an enlarged europe. i hope and believe that the proposals which i presented to you last month can help to unblock the negotiations. my call to you today for 2006 is that we consolidate and build on this new consensus, that we restore that shared sense of purpose that will get europe back on its feet; a united europe acting collectively on matters that most concern our citizens. in my view this is the best possible response to the no votes to the constitution earlier this year. it is also at the heart of the commission's programme for the second year of our partnership. i hope it finds your active support. i can think of no better signal to our citizens that europe is working for them. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, the programme you are presenting to us highlights the key priorities of security, competitiveness, social justice and the internal market, and we underline your willingness to translate the lisbon objectives into action. we must still do everything we can to reach them. i am afraid that there is a lack of ambition to meet the expectations of a europe in crisis. your methodology of plan d, for democracy, dialogue, debate, is also interesting, but on condition that it does not become the plan of demagogy or disappointment. because there is something missing in this plan d, which is the determination, your determination to find concrete solutions. what concerns me, mr president, is what jobs we will have in europe in five years' time. not just service jobs, but also jobs in industry. what jobs will we still have in europe in five years' time? growth, employment and security are the three pillars on which europe must build its policy. but for that, and in the absence of a constitution, we need a political initiative, bringing together the council, the commission and the parliament, to put into effect the measures necessary for the functioning of the european institutions. it is not a question of ignoring the results of the popular consultations. quite the opposite. you know that future enlargements are a matter of concern to a large number of european citizens. if europe must unquestionably accompany the efforts of our closest neighbours towards democracy, you must not give the impression that you are going too fast and wanting to expand continuously, when we have not solved the problem of our institutions or the problem of europe's finances. mr president, we reiterate our ambition to have a strong european commission. we will be there for you, but it's up to you to listen to us more. the council is not your only interlocutor. it would also be appropriate to strengthen cooperation between the presidency of the european union and our assembly. at the last summit in hampton court, the council asked you to give a new impetus to migration and internal security. we welcome this initiative. because, up to now, the council has rather held back the judicial cooperation requested by our parliament. these issues of internal security and the fight against terrorism must not be confined to the intergovernmental sphere. we therefore expect strong initiatives in this area and call for a complete review of the measures to protect the internet, measures that will create cyber security without hampering the freedom of the network. better regulation does not mean doing nothing, but doing better, better targeting the european union's action. before proposing, we must think carefully about the added value of europe. this is important, among other things, for supporting research. we therefore welcome the creation of the european institute of technology. this also means ensuring that european texts are properly applied. each commissioner should publish a clear and precise statement of the situation on a quarterly basis. we also need to review the comitology procedure, as we also want to be more involved in the much needed process of simplifying legislation. the commission wants to tackle the problems of europeans today, but also the challenges of tomorrow. two aspects seem particularly important. the first is demography and population ageing. in this respect, a more family-friendly environment must be created. although this is a matter for the member states, the union can try to bring together the best initiatives within the 25 member states and propose effective health policy solutions. the other aspect is the sustainable management of natural resources, and in particular the impetus given to energy policy. the proposal for an energy efficiency action plan and the proposal for the draft green paper, which aim to ensure safe, competitive and sustainable sources of energy, are in the right direction. we will ensure that these objectives are translated into action, particularly in the development of biofuels and inland waterway transport. finally, europe will be all the stronger the more it weighs on international negotiations. we know that we have little to hope for from the hong kong meeting, but we ask you not to call into question the reform of the cap, decided in 2003, and to always support multifunctional agriculture. but our prospects for the future will be in vain if we do not have financial prospects before the end of the year. how do you imagine working with annual budgets? you yourself, mr president, said that 2006 would be the year when words could be turned into action. you know that many projects are waiting for this budget. parliament has done its duty, through the böge report. it is up to you to put pressure on the british presidency to get europe out of this impasse.
mr president, commissioner barroso, there was ceuta, there was melilla, now there are the burning suburbs. the media around the world are asking themselves, and we, what are we doing? a legislative program. treatment for what? for example, global warming, which makes sense; when cars and schools burn, there is a problem of warming, and therefore of respecting kyoto. we could, moreover, with mrs fischer-boel, destroy a little more of our agriculture, so that mr mandelson would get an agreement in hong kong and we would have a little more unemployment. let us adopt a few more directives, and the mountain of legislation will give birth to a mountain of impotence. i even propose a title for mr barroso's legislative programme: 'operation smog', since it is a smokescreen made up of nice things, but to hide dramatic things. a final word, mr president barroso, on christmas day in the fifth century a.d., the rhine froze over as a result of climate change. thousands of chariots of fire crossed the rhine and rome was devastated. do you know what the roman senate was doing during that winter of 483? he was making a legislative program. (mr cohn-bendit says to mr martinez: "oh, there he is, how strong he is, he knows his history!")
i shall, as you requested, mr president, convey to the competent bodies of parliament your remark about our slightly deserted chamber. the presidency of the council is of course pleased that the commission is fully present for this important debate, even though the council benches are a little empty.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate shows that a genuine culture of dialogue has developed between the commission and parliament. as far as programming is concerned, which is far from being a bureaucratic or statistical exercise, it is an essential political element - and i welcome this as president of the conference of committee chairmen - i thank mrs wallström for her many appearances before our conference and the commissioners who have had bilateral discussions with the respective parliamentary committees throughout the procedure. of course, some improvements are needed, and indeed here too, in terms of attendance in this house. subject to the analysis of the work programme proposed by the political groups, which they will carry out with a view to adopting a motion for a resolution at the december partsession, i think i can say that this programme largely reflects the main priorities expressed by the parliamentary committees in the main chapters of the programme, namely priority, solidarity, security and external responsibility. however, two fundamental points of disagreement emerge with regard to the area of freedom, security and justice in the field of human rights. some proposals were not accepted by the commission. however, what is important is that parliament, as a co-legislator, is kept fully informed in all transparency of the reasons why the commission, in exercising its right of initiative, has not acted on its wishes. the second point is that the lisbon agenda is aimed at employment and competitiveness, cohesion and research, and we need a budget and financial perspectives. finally, programming is only one part of a broader agenda under the heading of 'better lawmaking' and in this respect we attach great importance to the transposition and simplification of european legislation. a workable solution is needed in the area of comitology and i would like to stress the need to include simplification measures and withdrawal proposals in the legislative and work programme as from next year, in order to give both greater visibility and transparency to this exercise. i welcome the commitment made by mrs wallström at our last meeting on 13 october and i am confident that all the committees in parliament will actively monitor the implementation of this programme.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, i will first make a few general remarks and then try to answer some specific questions that have been put to me. first of all, as mr daul has said, as president of the conference of committee chairmen, i am pleased with the good cooperation which has developed between the commission and parliament and its various committees in the preparation of this work programme. this is important, because we've tried to meet a lot of your expectations. it must be acknowledged, as one member of this parliament said, that this has led to ninety-six concrete measures. you thought it was too much, but after listening to all of you this morning, some of you would like more. we have to be honest about this. we need to strike a balance, and that balance implies that we must, while setting clear priorities - and we have clear priorities for the renewed lisbon strategy - respond to the very plurality of expectations that are expressed here, when we talk to you. i have asked the whole college and all the commissioners to be serious, realistic and objective in the preparation of this programme. i want a much higher execution rate than in the past. and this year i am proud to say that we are going to have a much higher rate of implementation of the commission's work than in the past. we've been focusing on some of the goals that we really want to achieve. of course, our general programme is spread over five years. we will now present the programme for 2006. it will not all be done in 2006. but what i'm asking is that you analyze our work against realistic goals, concrete goals. i would also like to thank you for the very positive general response to our initiative on better regulation. this is a concern, as has just been said, which is not confined to the commission but which must be shared by all the institutions, including parliament. i now turn to the practical questions, ladies and gentlemen. as regards the sustainable development strategy, mr jonckheer, i would like to say that this is not my poor child, quite the contrary. when i spoke to our american and other partners in gleneagles on behalf of the european commission about the importance of climate change as a top priority, i was not referring to a poor child. when we announce a new strategy for sustainable development, which we will present in december, it also shows our commitment to this issue. when we adopt, as we have just done, a set of thematic strategies for the environment, it shows once again our commitment to the protection of the environment. so we're going to do it. we shall do so by trying, of course, as i have already said, to make our different objectives compatible and mutually reinforcing. mr swoboda, you asked two questions, among others: on tax harmonization and on the european institute of technology. as regards tax harmonization, we must of course respect the consensus among our member states that we must work towards a common tax base. that is why we are trying to reach agreement on a basis, a common tax base in europe. we are convinced that this will reduce the cost of doing business and investing in our countries significantly, while leaving each member state free to set its own corporate tax rate. this is the position of the european commission. as far as research is concerned, we believe that centres of excellence for research will have to be strengthened throughout the union. we believe that european universities should be world leaders in research, education and innovation. we must work to make our universities more attractive so that the best from all over the world will look to europe, instead of the united states, as is the case today. we can have the centres of academic excellence in europe. that is why we must establish a stronger cooperation mechanism between european universities, so as to exploit to the maximum the potential of knowledge in europe. that is why the efforts to establish a european institute of technology are an important part of our strategy for growth and jobs. as regards the questions you have raised in connection with enlargement, mrs grossetête, we respect the commitments which the member states and the european council have unanimously made. that said, i want parliament to know that the commission will be rigorous and systematic in assessing all the progress made by the candidate countries to the union. as regards family and demographic policy, we were the ones who put it on the agenda at the hampton court summit and we now have a clear mandate from the european council to contribute to this reflection, or rather to the concrete measures we intend to announce. we shall therefore also act in this area. as regards the concerns expressed by several of you, including mr crowley, about agriculture and multilateral negotiations, i can assure you that europe will not accept being reduced to a defensive position in this context. we believe that we should no longer listen to the lessons of those who keep markets much more closed than ours, which is one of the most open markets in the world, if not the most open. we will be there to defend the european interest clearly. children's rights were also a problematic matter brought to our attention by mr crowley. we are fully committed to this agenda. vice-president frattini is now preparing proposals to be discussed in the commission very soon for a communication that we hope to present in march 2006. admittedly, the legal basis for legislation in this matter is not very clear, but we believe that we should not refrain from looking forward to better coordination between the european union and member states on children's rights. you can count on our commitment to children's rights and on all issues relating to civil rights, including the non-discrimination concerns that you have expressed. i should like to comment on mr rasmussen's remarks. we agree that we need both elements: economic reform and investment. indeed, we are starting to do that, and hampton court was a first important step in that direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we now have some areas in which we can give a strong signal of commitment and a coordinated approach towards economic governance in europe. we agree on that. the difficulty, mr rasmussen and colleagues, is largely that we are now working in the last year of the financial perspectives for this period. now it's impossible to rearrange all the priorities for this year. as for our analysis of the member states' national reform programmes, what we are doing now and - i promise this to you - what we will be doing is within the framework of the new lisbon strategy; we are trying to forge ahead not only based on an approach that reinforces our efforts in terms of economic and structural reform, but also based on a more common and integrated approach for investment so that we can boost growth and employment in europe. i want to underline it because it is a good example of an approach at european union level bringing added value to the efforts of the member states. this idea of partnership between the member states, the commission and parliament is the very basis on which we want to continue working with you for a renewed, stronger, more committed european union project. (applause) i would like to thank you.
parliament thanks the president of the commission and the college of commissioners, who are present in full, i repeat. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 14 december 2005. (the sitting was suspended at 12.10 p.m. pending the vote and resumed at 12.15 p.m.)
in writing. under the guise of protecting european eels and ensuring their legitimate migration to the sea, following a decline in stocks, the european commission presented a management plan for yellow and silver eels on 1 october 2003. for example, france has 399 tonnes of fish compared with 2 064 tonnes in egypt. but there is also farmed eel in the netherlands with a production of 3,800 tonnes. and it's not surprising that jan maat, a dutchman, is interested and reports back. but as dutch farms feed on fry or civets caught in the coastal ponds of the mediterranean, there is a legitimate concern. fishermen in the languedoc-roussillon region, for example in palavas or pérols, are concerned that their traditional practices, which respect the future of stocks, are being called into question. they want to catch adult eels, not civilian eels, whose stocks have been rising for the last 10 years due to the ban on catching them. the bureaucratic proposals on control, restrictions, supervision, declarations, fishing prohibition, threaten the survival of these traditional fishermen. i am therefore against this report to save this profession of free men.
mr president, i have a request for an explanation of vote on the gargani report. the criminal division of the french court of cassation, which has never been so well deserving of its name, has committed what must be called a real forfeit. the judgment delivered by the president, mr cotte, the rapporteur, mrs caron, and the councillors, mr le gall, mr pelletier, mr corneloup, mrs ponroy and mr koering-joulin, seriously and deliberately infringes article 26 of the french constitution on parliamentary immunities by refusing to grant protection to this immunity in the case of the illegal wiretapping of the telephone of our former colleague, mr marchiani. of course, i'm not here to judge the merits of the case. in so doing, these judges have seriously and deliberately violated the protocol of 8 april 1965 and the act of 20 september 1976, international treaties which, according to article 55 of the french constitution, have a higher authority than the laws, even internal ones. this brazen display of contempt for the law by the judge must be sanctioned as such and we hope that the resolution of mr gargani and the unanimous legal committee will contribute to this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in france, each year, almost 10% of the cancers that workers develop are linked to exposure to chemical substances at the workplace. but in the absence of actionable data on these substances, only a small fraction of these cancers are recognised as occupational diseases and treated as such. more generally, we are seeing an exponential increase in cancers affecting the general population, especially children, leading many scientists to say that these cancers are directly related to chemical production. in other words, the importance attached to the introduction of a system of expertise, authorization and substitution of chemicals. we are all concerned here with ensuring the competitiveness of european chemistry and hence employment. i have always advocated that the system chosen should be technically and economically viable for companies and, as such, should favour consortia. but we do not want a reach at a discount. for reach to be effective in removing harmful substances from the european market, there are two conditions. first, the determination of the nature and potential hazard of substances depends directly on the quality of the information provided at registration. no amendment should result in the substance of the registration being deprived of its substance and in this respect derogations from the obligation to transmit data can only be exceptional and strictly controlled, including for substances produced in small quantities. the burden of proof must remain with the companies. secondly, we must give every european citizen, every worker, the assurance that harmful products will be withdrawn from circulation and replaced by safe products. the introduction of a substitution obligation, rather than a simple recommendation, is not negotiable. thus, no marketing authorization should be granted for a harmful substance if a substitute product exists. it is in the light of these requirements that we must, in my view, determine our vote at first reading. the socialists in the committee on the internal market, for whom i am the fictitious rapporteur, found a compromise quite similar to that of today satisfactory. on the other hand, other colleagues in our group, and in particular the french socialists, would have liked a more ambitious compromise. i would like to conclude by thanking our rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, for the considerable work he has done.
mr president, we have made good progress since the launch of the reach project. we found that we're using over a hundred thousand chemical molecules without knowing their effects. we realized that our fellow citizens were sick of the toxic substances that interfere with our jobs, our comfort and our happiness. some 20 years ago, when the first toxicological studies showed that polar bears were contaminated with dioxins, we were surprised, indignant, but of course we were not going to stop progress because of a few polar bears! today, the medical profession is firmly convinced that the entire planet is poisoned. recent studies have shown that we women, as mothers, pass a toxic heritage to our children through the umbilical cord. it is the future of the human species that is at stake, much to the displeasure of some of the members present. and there is urgency if we are not to be complicit in a chemical-induced health catastrophe. the original reach project allowed us to meet this challenge. unfortunately, the blackmail of relocation, the pressure of the industry has poisoned our debate and misrepresented the ambition of reach. the compromise of the rapporteurs is a decoy, an imbalance between health and competition, because health is worth much more than bargaining under high voltage. and neither the commission nor the council have quantified the health cost of a weakened reach.
mr president, in view of the first reading by the european parliament of the draft regulation on the registration, evaluation and authorization of chemical substances and the restrictions applicable to these substances, and while we approve of the role that the european agency should play, we wish to take a cautious position because this text, even with all the amendments that have been made, is lacking and far from being completed. moreover, it does not seem to strike the desired balance between the three fundamental principles of health and environmental protection, business competitiveness, innovation and substitution. this lack of precision is due to the distortions of costs that such a regulation would entail, which would range from eur 3 to 180 billion, as well as the benefits that are estimated to be between eur 5 and 230 billion. the disparity in costs announced by the commission, like the costs put forward by the industries, is gigantic. but let us not forget that these costs will be borne only by industry, that this directive affects 5 million jobs and that it will have serious consequences. that is why we will not be influenced by purely political positions and why we will judge the various amendments that will be tabled on a case-by-case basis.
mr president, like most of my predecessors, i very much welcome reach, which is intended to ensure that substances used in everyday life are safe for human health and the environment. the authorization of a harmful substance must, in my view, be an essential step in the regulation. how to use the product, how to identify it, how to prohibit its use by an uninformed public? how can a study plan be drawn up for the replacement of a dangerous product? and reach also aims to advance knowledge of chemicals by creating a european databank and to stimulate innovation by encouraging substitution of products of concern. reach will be a good regulation if, by drawing on the knowledge and know-how of the chemical industries, it gives rise to new technologies, new substances and new businesses. we will have succeeded if we adopt a system that is proportionate, simple, efficient and practical for businesses. we will have succeeded if we adopt a balanced text on thursday which allows companies to maintain their global leadership and which safeguards human health and the environment.
member of the commission. i can only regret to say, mr president, that my approach is voluntary and that this question will be put on the table when we debate it with our partners, but i can only offer my good will. i have two wishes. first of all, i would like the member states, that is to say the council, to show perhaps a little more voluntary behaviour on this matter. i think it would help us if, for example, we did not impede the consideration of the requests we make because i am not at all opposed to, on the contrary, stronger legislation. at some point, you're gonna have to go through it. secondly, i have indicated a way forward which i would describe as technical, which would at least allow pressure to be exerted on the partner countries and, of course, on the member states. what we really need is a way, let's say scientific, to identify, to qualify the origin of the wood. we've been able to do that technically for diamond, for example. there are now very accurate ways of certifying the origin of a diamond. it's a little bit down that road we have to look.
member of the commission. in all our development programmes it is clear that the activities or actions you suggest in your question can obviously be development projects, be quite eligible for such projects, whether for obtaining technical assistance, implants, for a whole series of measures; we are obviously very attentive to this aspect. in development projects, the question you are concerned with is actually a question that is becoming more and more transversal. it is obvious that in all development projects, where countries are concerned and where certain regions or areas are concerned, these are projects which are quite eligible. in fact, quite a few are already being implemented today.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that financial resources for development must be substantially increased if the millennium development goals are to be achieved by 2015. as you know, the european union takes very seriously the challenges of mobilising the budgetary funds needed to halve poverty by 2015. for this reason, the union set itself a first intermediate target in 2002 to increase development aid in 2006. collectively, the union aims to achieve a level of aid of 0.39% of gnp for official development assistance. in may the council approved proposals to start a new phase to jointly achieve 0.56% of gdp in 2010 and then the 0.7% target in 2015. these goals, i know, are ambitious, but they are realistic. they were not randomly evaluated. i am pleased that four of our member states have already reached this level of aid. six others indicated that they wanted to achieve it well before 2015. there is a precise definition of what is covered by the term 'official development assistance'. it was established by the oecd and is internationally recognised. according to this definition, debt relief is considered development aid. this is justified in that debt relief frees up funds previously reserved for debt servicing to be used for the development of poor countries. since the monterrey conference on financing for development, eu aid flows have indeed increased towards the 2006 interim target. a significant proportion of this increase is due to debt relief operations. the spirit of the monterrey consensus, however, is that the debt relief initiative for the heavily indebted poor countries, i quote, 'must be financed entirely by additional resources'. in 2005, for example, the commission indicated in its annual monitoring report on the union's commitments in monterrey that the impact of debt relief efforts on aid flows should be carefully considered. we will of course be keeping a close eye on our future annual monitoring reports. in this connection, i would like to recall that the european union has committed itself to mobilising around eur 66 billion annually from 2010. this is €20 billion more than planned for 2006. in the light of these planned aid volumes, the debt relief effect on the increase in official development assistance will be limited in the medium and short term.
member of the commission. perhaps i was a little equivocal in my first statement. i wanted to say that in 2006 we will not only have achieved what we promised, but we will have exceeded it: we will do a little better in 2006 than we promised. in other words, we are a little ahead of schedule. it is in fact to maintain this relative dynamism that i have proposed setting a new target for 2010. i think i said it was quite realistic to think that we would reach the target by 2010. unfortunately, i have no means of coercion to compel states which do not respect their commitments to do so. that said, i think there is a certain awareness today that development is a fundamental policy and that there is no longer any excuse for not respecting commitments. the commitments made in the context of the millennium are no longer excusable. if we want to, we can find the financial means. i believe that the political will exists. it remains to be translated into action. so, and this is the question you ask, how do we find other resources? you know that a number of countries have already decided to levy or impose a tax on air tickets. you know that we have talked and talked about the tobin tax on financial transactions, although no consensus has been reached on this matter that allows us to move forward. i must say that i am of course open to any new ideas on this subject. i also put forward the idea, at one time, of a tax on the arms market. however, there is a small moral problem here. the legal arms market is worth a trillion dollars a year, while the illegal market is estimated at over two trillion dollars. the problem is therefore: will the legal arms market be taxed, while the illegal arms market will, unfortunately, be exempt? you know that in a few minutes one of your colleagues, mr rocard, is due to ask a question about the creation of a world lottery. i'm very open to the idea. you also know that the outcome of the fines paid to the commission for non-compliance with the competition rules is being discussed. why not set aside these amounts for development? there are a number of avenues which we are busy checking for technical feasibility. i have other ideas, but the member states must of course agree to implement them. indeed, most of these ideas will not be useful or truly effective if only three, four, five or six countries implement them. the movement needs to be much more general. in conclusion, i feel that we should be able to increase development aid substantially in the years ahead.
member of the commission. madam president, the commission, together with the entire international community, is following very closely the development of the electoral process in the drc and its organization by the independent electoral commission. i personally carried out a mission to supervise the registration of voters at the end of august this year, to see under what conditions this registration was taking place. despite the state of the country's dilapidated infrastructure, the number of registered voters to date has exceeded 21 million. this figure is broadly in line with the demographic projections made on the basis of the last general population census which remains, at present, the most reliable statistical basis to work on. voter registration is governed by a specific law which sets out the conditions for voluntary registration. in addition, arrangements were made by the electoral commission to ensure that all registration centres were treated equally and that no region or area was penalised by a late opening of the centre. to give you a simple idea of the scale of the technical difficulty, i must tell you that we had to distribute more than 10,000 recording kits throughout the territory of the congo, knowing that in some places there are no runways, there are no roads, and we had to use helicopters. so you can imagine the scale of the work. furthermore, in order to avoid as much as possible the risks of double registration and massive fraud as mentioned in question the electoral commission has opted, with the endorsement of the international community, for the registration of voters on the basis of biometric data, the immediate issuance of the voter card, the daily display of the lists of registered voters in each registration office, the use of indelible ink and the cleaning of the voter lists on the basis of biometric data. the commission is supporting the organisation of the electoral process with a substantial contribution of eur 149 million through a trust fund managed by the united nations development programme. in this capacity, she is an active participant in the steering committee of the electoral process support project, which oversees the activities of the electoral commission in the project. in order to ensure that the elections are held in accordance with international standards, the commission has just decided to send an election observation mission, whose work will begin with the constitutional referendum on 18 december and will continue until the end of the electoral process. at this stage, there is no evidence of widespread fraud in the organisation and conduct of the electoral process. of course, when i say "massive", i mean that you have to put yourself in the context of 22 million registrations. i have figures, which i received this afternoon, which indicate that fraud has been detected, that some of it is voluntary, that there is fraud which we do not know whether it is voluntary, that mistakes have also been made. the people who work on these types of recordings are generally congolese citizens who have been trained by the company that provided the kits and it is obvious that when you encode millions of people, you have to expect a percentage of purely technical errors, of manipulation errors. when you make a mistake in a name, once the machine has registered it, you can't just take it out. but we can operate at the central level. so that is where the duplicates of the 22 million or so that are registered today will be eliminated. it is therefore estimated that once these duplicates are removed, we will probably be left with some 21 to 22 million legally registered voters, without duplicates. in the event that irregularities of such a magnitude as to threaten the transparency, credibility and representativeness of the process are detected by the election observation mission, in accordance with the provisions of the cotonou agreement, the commission stands ready to engage in an enhanced political dialogue with a view to finding corrective measures. that is no longer the case, we are no longer in the news. i'll give you the numbers. in fact the results of the undocking - as they call it in a very nasty word - of the kinshasa operational area were presented today at the meeting of the technical committee on the electoral process. of a total of 2,963,101 registered voters in kinshasa, 150,000 cases of duplicate voting were detected. there are 18 587 cases of technical duplication - that's what i just told you, of manipulation errors - 10 490 cases of fraud and 121 000 cases of potential fraud. the total of duplicates therefore represents about 5% of the total of those registered. as regards the percentage of fraudulent duplicates, it should be borne in mind that, once identified as a duplicate, each case does not correspond to one person but at least to two. thus, even if we add up the cases of fraud and the cases of potential fraud, we will get a maximum of 2% of fraud out of the total of cases registered. the figures for potential fraud cases will be known in the coming week, as will the result of the decoupling for the lower congo. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i went to see how it worked. i have to tell you, it was pretty impressive. all these people who came to register and who wanted to register, who were very happy to do so, actually had for the first time the opportunity to have a legal existence in relation to their state. they were given a voter card for the first time, which was also to some extent an identity card, which was new to them, as they had never had proper papers. all this was very impressive to see and the fact that we were able to register under the conditions we know more than 22 million voters - it is not quite over yet, it will take a few more days - represents a very great success, a success also for the international community and more particularly for the european union which has carried all this to the limit.
i thank you, commissioner, for these rather encouraging and highly technical details. you know very well that development aid cannot be really effective unless there is a minimum of democracy and the rule of law. i would also like to ask a supplementary question on freedom of expression and freedom of the press. we have a number of events which show that there are considerable difficulties in this area, involving journalists and a number of opponents who are trying to express themselves. so electoral lists are one thing, but freedom of speech is another. could you give more information on what the commission would do if it found any deviation?
, in writing. far from taking into account the popular sentiment expressed in the recent referendums in france and the netherlands, and not content with the already controversial opening of accession negotiations with turkey and croatia, the commission and the member states are caught up in a veritable frenzy of opening up the european union. under strong us pressure, the union is preparing to give a massive boost to its enlargement towards the balkans: after kosovo and serbia, the contagion will be immediate on bosnia, and of course on macedonia. it should be obvious, however, that it is pure folly to reopen in haste the whole of the balkans pandora's box at a time when the union has no constitution, no budget and when all the governments of the major continental countries are weakened by serious internal problems. the french delegation of the epp-ed group is not opposed to the principle of a new wave of enlargement in the medium term, but categorically rejects the prospect of such a hasty commitment by the union to these new partners.
the commission's vice-president mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the charm el-sheikh accident, the commission presented on 16 february a proposal for a regulation on the provision of information to air passengers on the identity of the operating air carrier and the communication of safety information by the member states. this proposal is part of the priority objective set by the barroso commission, namely to act by means of concrete actions to meet the expectations of european citizens. this proposal has two components which complement each other. on the one hand, the creation of a community list of airlines which are banned or subject to operational restrictions on safety grounds. secondly, passengers are informed of the identity of the carrier which actually operates the flight. the tragic accidents of last august have shown that aviation safety requires constant efforts and decisive action on our part. i thank the european parliament and particularly your rapporteur, mrs de veyrac, who has worked in an exemplary way with the commission and the council to facilitate the rapid adoption of an ambitious scheme. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. these measures may apply without discrimination to any carrier, irrespective of its origin european or non-european , irrespective of the nature of the flights scheduled or non-scheduled, such as charters , irrespective of the business model traditional or low-cost carrier. these measures will be taken on the basis of common safety criteria applicable throughout the european union. the new system will thus offer all passengers the same safety guarantees. the onur air case showed that european citizens could not understand that it was otherwise. these security advances must be accompanied by greater transparency. the publication of the list of airlines subject to prohibition measures will have several advantages. it will provide useful information for people wishing to travel outside the european union where flight ban measures are not applicable. it will also open up rights for consumers who have purchased a package including a flight operated by a blacklisted airline. finally, and i think this is an essential element, the publication of the community list will have a deterrent effect by setting up a concrete system of prohibition. we must go further in terms of information. to restore the confidence of the passengers, to avoid that we are again confronted with panic reactions, the right to information must be as complete as possible. the identity of the actual carrier must be known to the passengers at all times. the text is part of a package of coordinated measures to improve aviation safety. let me remind you of two measures which i announced on behalf of the european commission at your plenary session at the beginning of september. on the one hand, the commission adopted this afternoon a proposal to extend the common rules on aviation safety to aviation operations, pilot licences and aircraft of third countries, and the commission has extended the tasks of the european aviation safety agency to enable it to take decisions in these areas. on the other hand, we are working on strengthening the control mechanisms for third-country aircraft in the framework of the directive 2004/36 on the safety of third-country aircraft using community airports, known as safa. the management of the inspection programme for these aircraft will soon be handled by easa. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the excellent work done by the european parliament, the council and the commission in the last few months, we are now able to reach agreement at first reading, and this only a few months after the commission adopted its proposal. i think it's a good example for the future. i welcome once again the essential contribution of parliament to this matter and i shall listen carefully to the speeches of the members who will now be speaking.
president-in-office of the council. it is a great pleasure to be here this evening and be able to listen to this debate and the individual contributions from members of parliament. can i also say to the vice-president of the commission that i found his speech most interesting and informative. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs de veyrac, and members of the european parliament, in particular those in its committee on transport and tourism, for the hard work they have put into this important proposal. i would also like to thank the drafting committee from the three institutions which has made the agreement today so much easier. the council attaches the highest priority to aviation safety. it shares your determination that initiatives should continue to be taken to ensure that aircraft carrying europe’s citizens around the world are safe. we were all shocked by the number of air accidents that occurred in august and september this year, in which too many of our citizens lost their lives. in light of those events, parliament seized the opportunity to amend the proposal from the commission. you proposed amendments aimed at strengthening the scope for community-wide action on the safety of airlines. although the council had agreed a general approach in april on the principle of information sharing, ministers expressed support for this new objective at the transport council on 6 october. the council believes that the procedures for assessing the safety of carriers set up by the regulation are the most appropriate. we considered whether a role might be given to the european aviation safety agency but decided that this would be premature: the agency is still consolidating its structures and procedures and recruiting the staff necessary to carry out its present responsibilities. we should therefore be cautious about giving it new responsibilities too soon. the expertise and experience in dealing with the safety of air carriers currently exists in the member states and it is important to draw on this expertise so that it can be applied fully for the safety of our citizens. the process of banning air carriers and publishing this information is important, but we should not lose sight of the extra rights to be given to consumers. the council agrees that passengers should be given information about the identity of carriers they may book to fly with and that they be kept up to date on the changes in the carriers once bookings are made. the text today makes important contributions to both of those important safety and consumer objectives. i am delighted that a deal has been reached and that it will allow concerted action to be taken in a timely, transparent and well-organised way. it will identify carriers that do not meet acceptable international safety standards and ensure that action is taken to ban them throughout the community and that information about such action is published. it is a measure of the importance that we all attach to those objectives that parliament, council and the commission have worked so constructively together to prepare the text. credit is due to everyone concerned, especially to the rapporteur for her inclusive approach to reaching early agreement. i understand also that the recently established drafting committee contributed to the swift and efficient way in which a first-reading deal was arrived at. clearly, this is a valuable tool for future negotiations. i would like to finish by saying that i am looking forward to the debate and the individual contributions and i am pleased to be here this evening.
the rapporteur. mr president, before i get into the heart of the matter, i would still like to hear an explanation of how the agendas are drawn up in the conference of presidents. i will not give any examples, but we often discuss topics in the middle of the day which interest almost no one, and when it comes to texts which concern a large number of our fellow citizens, such as the one we are discussing this evening, or the rail package, and i see here mr jarzembowski and mr savary, we discuss them confidentially late in the evening. but that should not spoil our satisfaction that we have reached agreement on this text. i would first of all like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs and the services of parliament, as well as those of the european commission and the council, for their fruitful and, why not say, sympathetic cooperation. we have all worked quickly and efficiently to reach an agreement at first reading and thus to deliver a positive message to our fellow citizens. as you said, the tragic events of last summer have increased our responsibility to adopt new measures to strengthen the safety of air passengers and their information. and that responsibility, we all took on together. we are talking about air safety; i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. at the same time, we must be realistic and realise that there is no such thing as zero risk and that the sharp increase in air traffic in the coming years could lead to an increase in the number of plane accidents. to avoid this, we must address the shortcomings of the present system by providing for a european mechanism which, in addition to icao, goes further in strengthening aviation safety and this is the view with which this report has been drawn up. when we compare the starting point of the european commission, namely the publication of the national lists, with the text we have today, we see that we have come a long way and that this did not seem possible a few months ago. thanks to parliament's initiative, we are on the verge of having a single community blacklist, drawn up on the basis of common criteria and applicable throughout the union. this will ensure that our citizens are guaranteed the same level of safety, regardless of the community airport they use, and why not say that this text is a great victory for the european union. i should now like to try to go into the proposal for a regulation in a little more detail and tell you how the initial establishment of this list will be done. member states will have one month from the entry into force of the regulation to transmit the list of air carriers banned from flying on their territory, drawn up on the basis of the common criteria annexed to this text. this may concern any airline with a right of traffic in the union, as well as those without such a right but whose aircraft are likely to be chartered in the european union. the commission will then have to convene the committee of experts within one month and decide whether or not to include the carriers concerned on the list. and all airlines on that community list will be banned from flying throughout the union. this community list will be updated at the request of a member state or the commission, whenever necessary. the list will also be made public and widely and effectively communicated to passengers, including by electronic means and by means of display. finally, passengers will be entitled to reimbursement or re-routing in cases where their operating carrier is included in the community list after booking or if it has been replaced by a banned carrier. that is the blacklist part, but there is also the part dealing with passenger information and this regulation places an obligation on ticket sellers to tell passengers the identity of the airline with which they are actually going to travel. and this information should also be given to passengers if there is a change of airline. finally, the regulation leaves it to the member states to implement sanctions in cases where the passenger's duty to inform has not been respected. as regards procedure, the text should be ready for approval by the council by the end of november, after verification by the legal linguists of the two institutions. finally, mr president, i should like to say a few words about the european aviation safety agency, since this regulation is, in my view, part of an overall strategy to improve aviation safety in europe. the next step in this process will therefore be to extend the powers of easa, particularly with regard to the certification of aircraft from third countries, and i am very pleased that you have put forward this proposal today, commissioner. for the time being, the regulation we are discussing tonight will make the european blacklist available to citizens from the beginning of 2006, and i welcome this result. europe is moving towards a stronger aviation safety. she's making good progress.
mr president, i welcome the report by my colleague, christine de veyrac, who has the great merit of clearly stating the principle of adopting a blacklist of unsafe and even dangerous airlines. in view of the recent and repeated occurrences of accidents caused by defective aircraft, it is essential to take action to list and ban such aircraft. it is essential for the safety of all air passengers to know the identity of the airline which is transporting them and, moreover, to know whether or not it is considered dangerous. this right is an absolute right. it cannot be restricted because it is the life of millions of people who travel by air all over the world. however, i will make one reservation. what will be the scope of the community list of these carriers which do not meet the european safety criteria? at the moment, it seems that no common criteria for establishing a community list have been set by the commission. are we afraid of diplomatic repercussions with some sensitive countries? should we be afraid, for example, of the reaction of the turkish authorities to the recent flight ban on onur air by the netherlands, belgium, france and switzerland alone? why have the other european countries not joined in this ban? the text before us proposes, among other things, to increase the powers of the european aviation safety agency. why not, if the objective is to strengthen common criteria for inspection, prohibition and restriction of flying rights? however, have there been any control measures for this agency and any appeals against its decisions? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, there are a few of us in this parliament who have lived through the difficult times of the shipping tragedies of the erika and the prestige and have witnessed the sad spectacle of the member states abandoning the european union. for once, europe has had a head start on aviation safety - i do not know whether we should be happy about this, i would say, unfortunately - on events since we set up the european aviation safety agency in 2002 and this regulation was proposed to us by the commission as early as february this year, before the sad, dark summer we have experienced. i would therefore like to congratulate mrs de veyrac today on the work she has done, because parliament has considerably enriched the text. it has long wavered between subsidiarity and community added value. we can now speak of real community added value since we have a community blacklist, since each member state has its list distributed among all the other member states, since the european union and the commission have their capacity for autonomy. so this is a text that goes far. i would like to return to the maritime sector. he taught us that it's not about controlling. the question is how often these checks are carried out. it is also a question of who is responsible. we have done it for the maritime sector, and tomorrow we will probably have to do it for the air sector as well. finally, as you know, commissioner, the human factor is very important in air accidents. the majority of them are due to human failings. it will therefore be very important to come to rules on the control of crew training and to a very high level of training, harmonized in europe. you have opened the door by extending the powers of the european aviation safety agency. i've heard the council's reservations. i think you will have the support of parliament, commissioner, because that is the way forward if we are to assume our responsibilities to public opinion and to the users of aviation.
thank you for that information, colleague. as you have seen, the exhibition was withdrawn because the rule is that the controversy takes place here in this chamber, not by interposed exhibition. i suggest that you call the bureau to see what useful action should be taken in the light of the facts you have just reported.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the situation in iraq after the constitutional referendum.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of a provisional constitution by the iraqi people is a major step forward for us. the high level of citizen participation in the electoral process is a factor of optimism for the nascent democracy. the developments in iraq are of course opening the way to a future partnership between iraq and the european union, particularly in the context of its neighbourhood policy and a peaceful mashreq, and in this respect i thank mrs ferrero-waldner for the commitments she has made on behalf of the commission. the challenges of this partnership are many: democratic stabilisation of the country, the construction of a real and no longer formal state governed by the rule of law, respect for fundamental freedoms and the rights of minorities, but also the transition from a war economy to a peace economy, from an economy governed by a market economy, the allocation of oil resources to diversification in favour of agriculture, industry and services, and finally the reconstruction of the education and health systems destroyed by so many years of authoritarian power, embargo and war. but there are a few prerequisites to this partnership. the uncertain developments in iraq deserve our utmost vigilance. we cannot ignore the losses and gains of the use of white phosphorus bombs if the information proves to be accurate by the americans in fallujah. there must be an investigation. the replacement of foreign forces by a un-led peacekeeping force is one of our objectives. the elections in december must enable the iraqi people to elect a government and a parliament that reflect the human and political balance of the country. the federal institutional framework seems particularly suited to this. the european union must set itself the objectives of reversing fundamentalism, of combating the so-called clash of civilizations and of building the mashrek based on shared values.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i thank all those who have taken part in this debate. this is an issue that raises passions and strong views and we have heard them expressed around the chamber this morning. however, i hope we can agree on two aspects at least. firstly, on how excellent and what a good thing it is that saddam hussein is no longer in power in iraq. secondly, we can agree that any human rights abuses that have been shown to have been committed since he fell from power should be investigated and dealt with in a proper and sensible way. i am very grateful for what the commissioner had to say and for the excellent work of the commission. it is right to point out that the eu has contributed to the un office of constitutional support both financially and through the provision of experts. the iraqi government has requested that the eu provide election monitors and, whilst the full election observation mission would, as the commissioner said, not be possible at the moment, the council will look closely at what we can do to monitor and support the elections. as far as human rights are concerned, the council’s conclusions following the external relations meeting on 7 november emphasised the importance of full respect for human rights in iraq. the council underlined the eu’s strong opposition to the use of the death penalty. it noted with concern recent reports – including by the united nations – of human rights violations by the iraqi security forces and urged the iraqi government to address these allegations. the eu stands ready to offer further support. at the same time, the council welcomed the improvement in the human rights situation since the fall of saddam hussein and condemned, as we all should, the atrocities of terrorists since then. the issue of coalition troops has been raised during the debate and it is certainly an important issue. however, honourable members will forgive me if i mention what president talabani, the kurdish leader whose people suffered so appallingly under saddam hussein, said only last weekend: ‘immediate withdrawal would be a catastrophe and lead to a kind of civil war. we will lose what we have done for liberating iraq from the worst kind of dictatorship ... instead of having a democratic, stable iraq, we will have a civil war in iraq, we will have troubles in iraq and they will affect all the middle east’. that seems to me an important statement by the president of iraq at the present time. the people of iraq have demonstrated great commitment to democracy. they turned out in their millions and in the most difficult of circumstances to approve a new constitution that will guide their country and protect their rights. if this momentum can be carried through to the december elections, then i believe iraq could be on the verge of a major turning point and, with the election of a new government, iraq enters a new phase. the leaders of iraq’s first constitutionally elected government will owe a huge debt of responsibility to its people. they will place their trust and their future in the hands of those leaders and those leaders must respect that trust. that means putting the nation’s interests above political and personal ambition or ethnic or religious interests. the new government has to be truly representative if it is to survive. it also must waste no time in getting down to business. that means ensuring security, health, education, employment and, of course, human rights. terrorism and insecurity remain the biggest obstacles to political progress and reconstruction. we should not underestimate the challenges that lie ahead, and i do not think this parliament does. there is still a lot to be done and huge dangers that we all know about still threaten these processes. this fledgling democracy will require support for some time to come. the international community has done a lot already and the eu has a proud record: it has joined with the un and others in committing significant resources to supporting the political transition and reconstruction. we all have valuable expertise and experience of democracy-building to share. the iraqi government has expressed its appreciation for the significant contribution of the eu and it has asked for more. we should not let iraq down.
member of the commission. mr president, it is true that the european union has been divided over iraq in the past, but it is also true that we are now united in building a new iraq, and that is the most important thing now. we cannot continue looking backwards. we have to build a stable iraq now and, although mr watson is correct in saying i emphasised the positive things we have been doing, it is also absolutely clear that the underlying situation is very difficult. that is why i said we cannot send to iraq an election observation mission which otherwise i would have provided. it is too dangerous for our people and they would not be able to do their job properly. what would the alternative be? in fact we have no alternative other than to try to work together. of course, the challenge is absolutely enormous, and i consider that the iraqi government and its people have shown great courage in this. what my colleague has just said is true. the outcome of the election was quite encouraging and really astonishing under these difficult circumstances. this shows that the average iraqi wants stability and peace, but there is also a minority, a very strong minority, which is of course extremist and radical, that is trying to undermine all the efforts made by the international community and the iraqi government. i did not mean to be one-sided and perhaps i could have made myself clearer. on the question of torture and recent events, we will have to see whether all the allegations are true. if they are, we must make it clear that human rights, just as lord bach has already said, are part of our very strong values and the ones we want to export to iraq and to be taken into consideration there. i learned today that the prime minister of iraq has already said he would himself set up a committee to investigate all instances of torture perpetrated by iraqis themselves. we can contribute to that through eujust lex and by building up a police corps that does not torture, but which knows what the limits are and tries to help restore order. we are therefore in this for the long run and will have to remain in iraq for a long time in order to restore stability to that country. this is something that is also very important for the region as a whole. indeed, i am working with regard to the whole region as part of the broader middle east initiative, and we will cooperate with the americans on this issue too.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 10 a.m. in anticipation of mrs beckett, president-in-office of the council, resuming at 10 a.m.)
president-in-office of the council. mrs president, there is now almost universal acceptance that climate change is a serious and an urgent problem. the ipcc predicts that global temperatures may rise by as much as 5.8°c by the year 2100. according to one insurance company, the estimated economic costs of global warming could double to usd 150 billion each year in the next 10 years, hitting insurers with usd 30-40 billion worth of claims. there is good evidence that the 2003 european heatwave was influenced by global warming and that, as members will recall, resulted in 26 000 premature deaths, as well as costing usd 13.5 billion. those events and their associated price tags bring very close to home the reality of what unchecked climate change would mean for us. it is clear that the scale of a climate change problem is enormous and that it is pressing, and that is why the uk decided to make climate change a priority for our presidencies of both the g8 and the eu. 2005 has been a critical year for international climate change policy. the kyoto protocol has entered into force. the eu emissions trading scheme is up and running and we are due, at the end of the year, to begin discussions on further action beyond 2012, something to which i will return. the g8 represents only a small – albeit key – group of countries, but the progress we have made there will, i hope, have a major impact. the g8 summit discussions in july concluded with an ambitious communiqué. it included agreement from all members, including the united states, on the role of human activity in global warming and on the need for urgent action. there was also consensus on a package of actions to combat climate change through a diverse range of avenues: energy efficiency, cleaner power generation, research and development, financing of cleaner energy, managing the impacts of climate change, as well as combating illegal logging. the g8 countries have engaged with the world bank and other development banks to improve the harnessing of funding for clean technology and, crucially, they also agreed to begin a new dialogue between the g8 and other countries with significant energy needs on climate change, clean energy and sustainable development. the first meeting of that dialogue took place in london on 1 november. mexico has offered to host a second meeting next year. the member states of the european union were some of the first in the 1990s to recognise the dangers of global warming, the link to human activity and the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. as long ago as 1991 the commission issued the first community strategy aimed at limiting co2 emissions and improving energy efficiency. in the light of the eu’s commitments under the kyoto protocol, it soon became clear that more needed to be done. so, in 2000 came the launch of the european climate change programme. today the eu is taking the lead, for example in focusing on emissions from aviation, and we warmly welcome the commission’s recent communication on reducing the climate change impacts of aviation. its announcement of support for the inclusion of aviation emissions in the eu emissions trading scheme is highly encouraging and we look forward to fostering progress in that area as a priority for our presidency of the european union. within europe there is a clear recognition of the importance of energy efficiency in meeting the challenge posed by climate change and work is already under way to deliver energy efficiency savings throughout the community. the energy services directive which we hope to agree by the end of the year is expected to provide a challenging first step, while the commission’s green paper on energy efficiency published at the end of june should set the future blueprint for europe’s energy efficiency strategy to 2020. but despite all this work and effort, it is clear that emissions in the eu are not being reduced as quickly as we want and that urgent action is needed in all sectors, at both national and eu level. so i applaud the commission’s decision to launch a new phase of the european climate change programme to look at what more can be done. alongside this, the commission and council are developing an eu medium- and long-term strategy for tackling climate change and will report on progress so far to the december european council. parliament’s input in this will be crucial, so the resolution that you have recently produced is an extremely valuable contribution to this process. the uk presidency has set out to create a fresh momentum in the wider international process in which the eu plays such a crucial role. that is why we put climate change on the agenda of our eu summits with china and india. these two countries are particularly important partners for the eu in tackling climate change. both summits included useful bilateral discussions on energy security and efficiency. a key element of the partnership with china is a new initiative on near-zero emissions for coal, with carbon capture and storage, to address the vital challenge of tackling the increasing greenhouse gas emissions from coal. we also agreed a new partnership with india. the eu-russia summit too was an excellent chance to consider what experiences we can share with regard to the implementation of the kyoto protocol, to ensure its mechanisms are up and running as soon as possible. in september, for the first time, ministers from the agriculture council met environment ministers to discuss the impacts of climate change on agriculture in the eu. we also put climate change on the agenda of the energy, transport and competitiveness councils. all this activity is leading to the first meeting in december of the parties to the kyoto protocol in montreal, where, under the protocol, parties will begin discussions on the next period after 2012. let me make it quite clear that the eu and the uk remain absolutely committed both to the kyoto protocol itself and to the united nations framework convention on climate change. as our prime minister tony blair said this week at the lord mayor’s banquet in london, the world needs a framework with the necessary targets, sensitively and intelligently applied over the right timeframe, that takes us beyond 2012. perhaps i could ask colleagues to take particular note of the use of the word ‘targets’, because the uk has repeatedly stated that formal agreements with targets are absolutely essential in any international climate change regime, not least because they give incentive and certainty to the business community. the informal g8 process is also hugely important, but it is complementary. it is not, and was never intended to be, a substitute for the kyoto protocol or for the united nations convention. i hope the work we have done this year through both presidencies will in fact be built on at montreal. montreal will primarily be the celebration of a massive achievement: the entry into force of the kyoto protocol. there were times when it looked as though that might never happen, but the eu continued doggedly to work for such an outcome, and now here we are, with the world’s only credible, binding international agreement on controlling greenhouse gas emissions. the eu set out our negotiating position for montreal at the october environment council. first, we want to agree the marrakesh accords – the decisions that will form the rulebook of the protocol. secondly, we want to agree a compliance mechanism to ensure that parties to the protocol keep to its rules. thirdly, we want to seek to improve the way the kyoto mechanisms – and here i am talking mainly about the clean development mechanism – work. emissions trading, the cdm and joint implementation are all crucial elements to the protocol and will remain essential in the years to come. finally, the montreal conference will look to the future and begin to discuss what happens when the first kyoto commitment period ends in 2012. this last issue is likely to be by far the most delicate, as well as the most important, element. there is no question but that we want to build on the kyoto protocol post-2012 and that we have to launch a discussion under article 3(9) of that protocol to consider future commitments of the eu along with other kyoto parties. however, it is also quite clear that for a global climate change regime to be truly effective, we need broader participation than the protocol currently offers. at montreal we will be looking for pathways towards a framework post-2012 which builds on and learns from the kyoto protocol as it stands and can include as many countries as possible. the eu will clearly have to back our political ambition for the montreal conference of the parties with real evidence that we are taking a lead in tackling climate change. the kyoto protocol also stipulates that, by the end of 2005, parties must demonstrate their progress in meeting their kyoto commitments. this will be the ideal time for the eu to reaffirm our commitment to kyoto, to meeting our emission reduction targets and to our obligations to assist developing countries. in preparing for the conference, we are assembling data, facts and figures to show the practical application of our political commitment. we know that we need to do more and we all stand ready to do more. today’s debate here in strasbourg will allow us to take stock of the current situation and offer us a further opportunity to demonstrate to the rest of the world that the eu takes this problem very seriously and is committed to delivering results. together we have already achieved a great deal; we have shown leadership and made a real difference. we need to continue to do that and not falter as the environmental stakes get higher. we will not see a resolution to the problem at montreal, nor under the current uk presidency of the eu. we need future presidencies – both of the eu and of the g8 – to carry on this work, keeping climate change high on their agendas and tackling the major threats it poses to our economies, our society and our environment. there are encouraging signs that the next g8 presidencies – russia and japan – fully intend to do so and i have every confidence in the eu’s continued determination to tackle this vital issue. (applause)
member of the commission. madam president, i am particularly pleased to have the opportunity to discuss with you the recent developments on climate change and how to strengthen the european union's policy on this matter and to ensure the active involvement of all partners in effective international cooperation in this field. today's debate is of particular importance in the run-up to the upcoming meeting of the parties in montreal, which will mark the entry into force of the kyoto protocol and the discussions on the post-2012 climate change regime. we are all concerned by the recent spate of theocratic events. we have had a severe drought this year in the iberian peninsula, we have had floods during the summer in central europe, we have had a series of hurricanes - katrina, rita, wilma - and other minor events. 2005 already set an unprecedented record, as 2005 was the year with the most named tropical cyclones since records began. although specific weather events cannot be directly linked to climate change, the increasing droughts and floods, as well as more severe and frequent hurricanes or tropical storms, are confirming scientific warnings about climate change. the earth has probably never in its history warmed as rapidly as it has in the last 30 years. the 1990s were the warmest decade on record, with nine of the 10 warmest years on record occurring between 1995 and 2004, with 1998 the warmest. scientists are expressing fears that 2005 may finally be the warmest year on record. it is known that when the planet warms, the sea warms, and when the sea temperature exceeds 26°c, then tropical cyclone formation is possible. the global sea surface temperature has increased by 0.6 percent over the past 100 years, which means that we're likely to have much more frequent and intense cyclones in the future. however, more important than determining whether hurricane katrina or other weather events were caused by human activities is learning from these weather events to win the battle against climate change. i would like to refer in particular to parliament's resolution on the communication 'combating climate change successfully' and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr wijkman, and the members of the committee on the environment, the committee on development and the committee on industry, research and energy for their valuable and specific suggestions. the draft resolution stresses that the community strategy to limit climate change must be based on an approach that includes: making use of the key elements of the kyoto protocol; drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union; involving other key countries, such as the united states; developing strategic cooperation with key developing countries; actively promoting research and innovation; and improving energy efficiency in the european union. i agree with and support this approach, and the initiatives taken by the commission this year in the field of climate change are largely in line with parliament's proposal. let me make a brief general reference: in october, the commission marked the beginning of a new era in the european climate change agenda with a major conference in brussels attended by the main players in the sector. the new european climate change programme will provide a new framework for our climate change policy with a purpose and a perspective beyond 2012. we are tackling a number of new issues, such as aviation, and we are also working on new technologies - such as carbon sequestration - which offer opportunities for cost-effective measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. as a first step, the commission sets up a number of working groups. these include: the working group to review progress to date in implementing climate change policies; the group to investigate carbon capture and storage in geological formations as a climate change mitigation measure; the group to assess the integration of aviation into the community's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme; the group to prepare the review of the community strategy to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from light commercial vehicles; and the group to identify the necessary policy adjustments to be made by the european union. each of the above groups will identify specific new areas where the european union can step up its action to tackle climate change. the first of these groups is expected to start submitting its final reports in the first half of the following year. the commission has also adopted, as mrs beckett said, a green paper on energy efficiency. i would also like to refer to the commission communication entitled 'limiting the impact of aviation on climate change'. air transport is an increasing contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. the communication concludes that the best way to reduce these emissions is to integrate the aviation sector into the community's emissions trading scheme. after consulting stakeholders, the commission intends to present a legislative proposal by the end of 2006. the commission's initiatives are not, of course, limited to the development of actions within the european union. we are actively engaged in discussions with third countries, seeking their views on the next steps to be taken in future climate negotiations and on the creation of new structures to strengthen our political dialogue and technological cooperation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: in this area we are working closely with the british presidency, which, as mrs beckett said earlier, put climate change very high on the agenda at the gleneagles summit of the eight, and which is continually putting climate change as one of its priorities. the results are encouraging. the eu-china partnership agreement on climate change and energy provides the political framework for closer cooperation and dialogue on these issues. the eu-china partnership has as its main objective the development of advanced, near-zero emission carbon technology based on carbon capture and storage in bioforms. it also intends to promote other clean energy sources, as well as energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy sources. the european union-india clean development and climate change initiative provides for various initiatives to develop the dialogue. it emphasises cooperation on the development and evaluation of clean technologies, the necessary adaptations to global warming and the clean development mechanism of the kyoto protocol. at the end of this month, in montreal, canada, the two-week united nations climate change conference will begin. the commission has actively participated in a number of informal preparatory meetings for the montreal conference. our activities, both in the european union and on the international stage, have played a major role in creating the conditions for the success of this conference. what are our goals in montreal: first, the meeting will mark the entry into force of the kyoto protocol by establishing the rules and procedures required for its implementation. in this context, it is important to demonstrate that the european union is living up to its commitments. secondly, the intense dialogue that has taken place in recent months has created an important momentum for the montreal conference to start the debate at international level on the shape of the future international regime on climate change. the achievement of these objectives is not, however, a given. a small number of countries, led by the united states, remain reluctant to engage in the debate on the future global regime on climate change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also important to realize that the montreal meeting is not the end of the process: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the solution can only be found through intensive international dialogue in the years ahead. through this dialogue we must find solutions that meet the key elements of the future climate regime as identified in the commission communication earlier this year. these elements are reflected in parliament's draft resolution. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of industrial accidents is a very good one. in conclusion, in order to achieve a positive outcome of the dialogue, there must continue to be active political interest in the issue of climate change and the european union's leadership role must be strengthened. we need to show that we can reduce our emissions and that this contributes to our economic growth. the draft resolution sends a clear message: that in meeting this challenge, the commission can always count on the support of the european parliament.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on development i would first like to congratulate our colleague anders wijkman on his excellent report on climate change. as rapporteur for this committee, i should like to make a few brief general remarks. our colleague is right to point out that while global warming is an environmental challenge, it is above all a development challenge. in fact, we see climate change as a real challenge to civilization. that is why our committee has stressed that the combined effects of climate change, global demographic change and economic globalisation are ushering in a period of instability unprecedented in human history. there is concern that global warming will exacerbate the gap between the developed world and the developing world. unfortunately, it is certain that these countries will be the most affected by the impacts of climate change. this is particularly true for small island states, which are vulnerable in more ways than one, including cyclones and rising sea levels. this is why we believe that helping these countries adapt to the impacts of climate change must be a priority in the european union's development aid policy. we recommend that the european union develop a specific cooperation policy for developing countries. as you will have understood, the committee on development believes that the fight against climate change is inseparable from the fight against poverty and the achievement of the millennium development goals. the report is also right to emphasize the efforts still needed to be made in the area of mitigation to achieve the objectives of the kyoto protocol. i have a final question, madam president. if today 20% of the world's population consumes 80% of the world's energy, what will happen to air pollution by 2050, even if the energy needs of 9 to 10 billion people have to be met?
mr president, while global warming seems to be a given today, it is still necessary to check the analyses which attribute it almost exclusively to greenhouse gases, which some scientists dispute, because other causes are possible. however, if the answer is yes, environmentalists should ask themselves whether they have not been excessively aggressive in their fight against all forms of nuclear energy, which, while presenting risks, do not emit any greenhouse gases. as the wijkman report proposes, alternative energy sources must be encouraged, particularly solar energy and geothermal energy. but we cannot impose such drastic restrictions on european countries alone when china, the united states and many others are massively increasing their co2 emissions. as regards the storage of carbon dioxide, let me suggest a natural, efficient and beneficial method, namely reforestation, especially since systematic reforestation could be the subject of a large programme of international cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr wijkman's report deserves our full attention. this text should be seen as our roadmap for better tackling climate change in the years ahead. the possibilities are realistic, and it is up to us to pursue them as rigorously as possible, relying on all the partners involved in its implementation, from the state to the citizen, and by changing our modes of production and consumption. but if there is one essential area in which we must commit ourselves much more strongly, by providing ourselves with financial resources that are up to the challenge, it is research policy, because there are no new technologies or innovations without research. the raw material of our researchers is a resource for the european union which we must exploit to meet the challenge of sustainable development and climate change, not forgetting, of course, our responsibility towards the poorest countries. so tomorrow we will have to have a research budget that is commensurate with our ambitions.
mr president, commissioner, minister, a few years ago, when we talked about climate change, some people were smiling with a doubtful air. today, no one questions the obviousness of these changes. there's even an emergency. we must act now to respond to this threat. certainly one of the worst in human history, with increasing numbers of floods, droughts, hurricanes, melting of the ice sheets, melting of our glaciers, maybe one day the development of certain diseases. so in the face of this threat, we have a unique opportunity to launch a real technology programme, to stimulate the innovation we so badly need to create new jobs in europe. europe, the world, has made many speeches, but actions are not enough. so the time has come to have the political courage to implement the kyoto protocol again. biofuel, solar energy, wind energy, hydroelectricity, hydrogen, efforts in energy efficiency, these technologies are there. it is up to us to accelerate their use in our urban planning policies, in our building methods. we must use every opportunity that is available to us. there is no single, ideal solution, but we must combine the use of these different sources. there are still too many obstacles to the implementation and commercialisation of technological innovations such as hybrid or electric vehicles. our citizens are ready to take their share of responsibility in this energy mastery. the united states, india and china are already taking initiatives, particularly in the field of nuclear energy. we cannot do without nuclear energy, which emits no greenhouse gases. what is europe waiting for to really open a debate on nuclear energy? a serious debate, without passion. i'm asking you not to delay him.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be credible in the eyes of the citizens, the european union must be based on good intentions and must act concretely by setting itself investment-related ambitions. what money for the iron? when will the major transeuropean networks, which are still awaited, be established? when will there be cap funding for biofuels? when will we see an increase in research budgets to meet the major energy challenges, such as the hydrogen sector? when will the structural funds and subsidies be given priority over energy efficiency and energy saving? i am thinking of the urban environment, housing and social housing. when will environmental taxes be introduced on the transport of goods, especially maritime transport? when will we have a trade regulation to combat the greenhouse effect? we expect concrete, operational answers, including immediate action. the european union must act here and now to convince, to serve as a model, to forge new partnerships with the countries of the south. we are still only at the intentions. let's get down to business.
in writing. i abstained on this text. as i said in my speech to the house today, there is urgency. we must act now to respond to this threat of climate change, certainly one of the most serious in human history. in this report i support the actions advocated - while rejecting the idea of eco-taxes - and the political will shown. i abstained to show my strong dissatisfaction with an amendment which calls into question the very existence of the parliament in strasbourg. it is unacceptable to use such an important text to insert considerations which have nothing to do with the subject under discussion.
in writing. the climate is changing. the cave paintings show mammals in the sahara and bouquets in lascaux. but the fact that these animals have disappeared from these areas is evidence that the climate has changed. and if there is change, it must be because of man. that the earth's axis has an angle of inclination with the plane of the ecliptic that changes over a period of 10,000 years, for example, and that this has an influence on the climate, as milankovitch has shown, does not matter. whether the great ocean breath, with its immense rivers plunging into the north atlantic and emerging into the pacific, has an influence on climate is of little consequence. fear wants explanations, great reassuring mythologies, cosmogonies, good and evil, punishments. so we are punished by industry, punished by progress, punished by inventing, by creating. prometheus man who flies fire must be punished today with melting ice, rising waters, heat waves and oxygen deprivation. as yesterday there were plagues upon egypt. all this would be nice if this post-medieval patchwork did not lead to a change in the economic and social climate which is a regression, a very real one, which we are suffering from.
mr president, a meeting for nothing or little, in a pleasant setting, under a warm autumn sun, that was the informal hampton court summit. there is no concrete result, no progress, no prospects. in short, the heads of state and government have not even tried to outline a beginning response to europe's deep crisis, as if, in the end, they were quite content with it. instead, they have, as usual, gone off the deep end in a litany of proposals that have been repeated a thousand times. yes, of course, we need to increase the european effort in research and development. yes, of course, we need centres of academic excellence in europe. yes, of course, we need a common energy policy. yes, of course, again, we need a real immigration policy. yes, of course, europe needs a security policy. but we still end up with the same problems. if we want to do things together, we need political will, we need effective and democratic institutions and we need a common budget. it is clear that the british presidency has not taken any action, or even attempted to take any action, on these three points. the british presidency has not only failed to get the union back on track, it has contributed to its weakening. now, his responsibility is clearly assumed. the december summit, mr minister, will be the last chance to provide europe with a substantial budget and thus give hope to all those who believe in its future. but it will also be the last useful moment for the british prime minister so that he does not go down in history as the man who contributed to the failure of europe, so that he does not go down in history as the man who deliberately turned the page on the political union of europe.
mr president, i looked up the word informal in my french dictionary. informel, in french, means ill-formed and unsightly. this adjective was used by montaigne in 1580 to qualify something that is difficult to define. i leave you to judge the summit of hampton court and the ghost of catherine howard. you have no luck as the british president. france has said no and the uk is being asked to revive europe. i think that's a lot. however, for many years, our fellow citizens had a few horizons open to them, with which they lived and were made to live, namely the reunification of europe, the constitution, the charter of rights, the single market and the single currency. i think of our fellow citizens and i say to myself that lisbon does not fulfil this function. today, it is the void. i am not disputing the summit's priorities, at least not in the extreme. that's not the problem. the problem is the connection with the citizen. it's like there was something we shared that just kind of disappeared. i think that the next summit or those to follow must enable us to find a new horizon to share with our fellow citizens. of course, we are thinking of the cohesion of the 25. sometimes it's called the marshall plan, for those of us who join. because the endless enlargement and the greed for funding are not hidden from the citizens. it's not good at all. i think it would be good to bring back the word 'harmonisation' in european writing, which is in danger of becoming extinct, which is also unfortunate. especially since there are still some things to be harmonized. we are not going to harmonize everything, but there is still room for improvement in some areas. and if we forget to do that, if we neglect that word and that value, then the citizens will turn away. another area of interest to me is the exchange of young people. i checked the statistics. in 2005-06, europe is funding 280 000 young people through the three programmes: comenius, erasmus and leonardo. there are 58 million of them. it would not be too expensive to increase the corresponding budget by ten times, especially since it is with these young people that we must play the role of european conscience.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is facing a crisis of identity, a loss of values, a general disillusionment. for the first time in a long time, europeans are worried that their children are living worse than they are. how can we respond and provide answers to these serious concerns? the hampton court summit was intended as a step in this process. i am afraid that little practical results have been achieved because, although the questions asked were well founded, namely 'does a european model or models exist in a globalised world', the answers to this question were not very clear. europe is in crisis because it does not know what it wants. it is divided, with some people's sole aim being to make it a trading area without tariff barriers, in short, a europe that is moving behind the trend of globalisation with a union that would expand endlessly. others have a different vision, a political ambition that the union must be defined by its borders and its project in order to assert itself and to share its humanist values in a destabilised world. the ump meps, as well as the vast majority of the epp-ed group, have clearly chosen to fight for the second vision to win, aware of the challenge we have to face. the french proposals, which were made public throughout the union by president chirac on the eve of the summit, have the merit of emphasizing the need to complete the internal market, to promote solidarity between states and to ensure the emergence of a europe of grand projects. but before the european council can consider a european recovery, it must first remove a fundamental obstacle. since, at the end of the negotiations initiated by the luxembourg presidency, almost all the member states have reached a convergent opinion on the financial perspectives for 2007 to 2013, it is imperative that they reach an agreement by the end of this year. any other debate would be based on conjecture. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, mr. beazley. i think we've got your point. it is the political groups that allocate the speaking time. if they want to give ten minutes, a quarter of an hour to their main speakers, that is their right, otherwise too. the commission and the council, on the other hand, have their time on the table. but both parties are careful not to abuse it, as i have noticed.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the recent statements by mr mahmoud ahmadinejad, president of iran.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i also want to congratulate our rapporteur on the foresight he has shown in this matter and we fully support his proposal for rejection. we can also take his argument for granted. i would like to stress a few points, however. first of all, commissioner, i should like to say that i appreciate your willingness to follow up this project, taking into account the position of the european parliament. i would like to emphasize how inconsistent the commission's handling of this issue of cruelty-free trapping has proved to be. it should be recalled that in 1998 the european parliament rejected the conclusions of the tripartite agreements with russia, canada and the united states, considering that they were not ambitious enough to be effective. but unlike today, the 1998 vote was inconsequential, since the council could conclude agreements even against the wishes of parliament. this time, however, the commission is proposing a european directive for the implementation of these same agreements, i.e. a project which does not achieve the objectives it set itself. why, then, in such circumstances, would parliament accept such a weak proposal? that is the question we are asking the commission. we cannot accept this proposal as regards the content of the report. not only is it criticized by scientists - other colleagues have spoken about it - and by animal welfare groups, but it does nothing to reduce the suffering of trapped animals. i think we should refer to mrs scheele's development, which explains precisely that we are not reducing these sufferings in any way. finally, the last and most important point: this project is unacceptable because, in the final analysis, it is in breach of european legislation, since it includes in its positive list species protected by article 12 of the habitats directive. you have the otter, the wolf, the beaver, the lynx. and you know, commissioner, i come from france, how difficult it is to enforce the habitat directive, to get wolf protection and to try to explain things. for all these reasons we reject this proposal and we are really counting on you, commissioner, to act as a liaison between parliament and the commission and to get the commission to withdraw this proposal.
mr president, commissioner, for the third time since 1991, that is, for the last 15 years, our parliament, still sitting at night, is discussing the question of traps and their barbarism with a human face. in 1991, for example, it was to ban jaw traps and the importation of fur from foxes, otters, lynx and thirteen other animal species from canada or the united states. the ban was to apply from 1995. however, in 1998 the commission came to us and explained that the life of the jaw traps had to be extended in the interests of the inuit indians and their ancestral hunting, even though the inuit trappers in question are multinational fur companies based on fifth avenue in new york. here, in the presence of the irish commissioner, mr mac sharry, i was describing the animal from the far north, with its broken leg bones, crushed tendons and severed arteries, which tears off its own leg and drags itself on the red snow to die twenty metres further under the fir trees, all for the benefit of the luxury industry which is the responsibility of indians like myself, whose name is martinez, who is genetically swedish. so tonight, to the directive on cruelty-free trapping, which is supposed to be an instrument for wildlife management, protection of dikes, crops and respect for treaties, i say: no! because for one muskrat or one badger that creates danger, we trap ten silver foxes that create profit. so, mr president, commissioner, let them live!
in writing. despite excessive provisions, particularly in terms of administrative authorisations, i voted in favour of the amended draft regulation on the regulation of chemicals (reach). these provisions replace outdated legislation that is unsuitable for stimulating innovation and providing adequate protection for citizens in a complex, dangerous and highly evolving environment. the amendments proposed by the epp and, in some cases, voted by parliament, safeguard the interests of companies, especially smes, while ensuring the proper functioning of the mechanism for the creation of a european chemicals agency. with my colleagues from the ump, we will be firmly ensuring that products imported into the european union are also subject to these community measures. this text, adopted at first reading, is a good basis for work and i welcome it because it is a step forward for health while respecting the environment and at the same time safeguarding the interests of companies in this very important sector of activity.
in writing. after the vote in the various committees and after hearing the views of both industry and ngos, the environment committee of the european parliament had defined a balanced framework between the protection of health and the environment and the industrial development of the european union. i believe that this compromise of the committee on the environment is the position to be defended, and it has been almost unanimously approved by the socialists, the greens, the gue and a large part of the liberals in the committee on the environment. i voted against the compromise on the registration procedure pse/ppe/alde, because it considerably reduces the number of substances covered by reach. a majority voted in favour of the substitution obligation to ensure that harmful products are withdrawn from circulation and replaced by safe products where they exist. other important points were adopted, and i voted in favour of mr sacconi's report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. chemicals are everywhere, and the recent increase in certain cancers and leukemias forces us to question the use of certain chemicals. i wanted to look at this text from the point of view of public health and environmental protection. a strong reach system is a guarantee for all our citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also important to exclude natural substances from this device. i voted in favour of the amendment calling for the chemicals used in cigarettes to be subject to the rules of the system in place. the balance that is sought, without any emotional consideration, and the creation of a strong and independent european agency must enable us to achieve these important objectives for our health, our environment and also for our industry. i also strongly urge that all products imported into the european union should also be subject to these community measures.
in writing. i have always defended four requirements in the reach dossier. 1- a comprehensive and rigorous system of registration of chemical substances in order to know them, assess their risk, inform users and avoid those that are harmful. 2- a non-lax authorization system, in the case of products with a certain degree of harmfulness, the authorization for use must be limited in time. the principle of substitution: the obligation to substitute harmful products must be the rule. if no known substitutes exist, research should be started immediately and the authorisation of use limited. 4- the creation of a strong european agency which draws on the network of national institutions with expertise but which remains the final arbiter for the implementation of this legislation. i voted against the compromise pse/epp/alde on the registration procedure, because it considerably reduces the number of substances covered by reach.
in writing. the consequences of a chemical agency, everyone can guess. first, the evaluation to create security cannot lead to certainty. antibiotics are there to show it. nitrate fertilizers have done the agricultural miracle that has led to 20 years of life today. with reach, in the name of the risk of pollution of waterways we would have malnutrition in europe. what do you mean, under the guise of caution, the reach is a concern of the rich and the amish? the deep basis of this project is the post-modern obscurantism that returns to a society of fear, no longer believing in progress because of the quest for eternity. all the sevesos, all the aral seas and all the ecological disasters will not make us forget the miracle of chemistry that every day has embellished every moment of our lives, from new fabrics to new material, from a thousand colors to a thousand perfumes. if god had had to register his human product born of organic chemistry with the helsinki agency, the very real potential dangers would have led to the refusal of permission to put man on the market alive. that's the slogan that sums up reach: "no future".
in writing. we could only agree on a european text providing for the introduction of humane trapping standards to increase animal welfare and the protection of certain animal species. however, the commission proposal before us is far too unsatisfactory for us to adopt. how can we accept that tests to create so-called 'cruelty-free' traps are carried out on the animals themselves? is there not a paradox in killing animals to kill others "humanely"? we are also told that the welfare of trapped animals should be improved. is that the case with the jaw trap that grinds underwater? this trap does not eliminate the agony: the average time for the mink to lose consciousness is two and a half minutes, and for the beaver, nine and a half minutes. the commission's proposal is not intended to eliminate or even limit the horror of trapping. it is always the same business logic that prevails. it should be noted that 15 percent of the animals killed for their fur were trapped. and that figure only covers fur traded...
in writing. only one sector still escapes the ultra-liberal logic of brussels: defence. but maybe not for long. the european commission's green paper on defence procurement is working to reduce trade barriers in this sector and open it up to competition. to this end, the commission decided to tackle the main legal obstacle by giving a new interpretation to article 296 of the treaty, which states that member states are allowed to derogate from community competition rules on grounds of national security. the aim of this manipulation is to challenge the triple imperative of security of supply, confidentiality in matters of defence and national security and national independence. at a time when the european arms industry is struggling to survive in the face of massive exports of us military products, it is high time for the eu member states to invest in research and the development of joint programmes. it is not by opening up our defence markets a little more that we will make them more competitive, but on the contrary, we will make them even more permeable to american imports. let's get the community preference back on the table and fast!
the agenda calls for the report by maria martens, on behalf of the committee on development, on a development strategy for africa [2005/2142 (ini) ] (a6-0318/2005). i understand that there was a great deal of hesitation among the members as to whether or not the debate and vote should be held today. as far as the vote is concerned, our rules of procedure allow it to be postponed. but nothing in our rules of procedure allows us to postpone the debate unless there is unanimity, but if someone wants the debate to take place, according to the rules of procedure it must take place.
the following is the proposal from the chairman of the sitting. we are dealing with rule 170 (1) of the rules of procedure, which says in the second paragraph: 'the intention to request the adjournment of a debate must be notified at least 24 hours in advance to the president, who shall inform parliament without delay.' it is clear that this condition is not met: the postponement is not requested twenty-four hours in advance. i am therefore obliged to proceed with the debate, especially since our rapporteur wishes it to proceed. i admit, ladies and gentlemen, that a debate of this importance would have deserved a wider audience. but i must point out two things. firstly, in general our debates rarely fill the house, whether on a thursday afternoon, a monday, a tuesday or a wednesday. secondly, our calendar is set up in such a way that our parliament meets on thursday afternoons. there can therefore be no discrimination between those who make the effort to stay and those who prefer to take care of other matters. we shall therefore proceed to this debate by giving the floor to our rapporteur, mrs martens, immediately.
just before i turn the floor over to the commission and to those members who are wondering when the vote would take place in the event of a postponement, i will read the relevant rule. this is article 170 (4) which says: 'before or during a vote, a political group or at least 37 members may table a motion to postpone the vote. this motion shall be put to the vote immediately.' this means, in practice, that we will eventually vote on it after the afternoon's debate. it is then, and only then, that a political group or 37 members can ask for a postponement, specifying when, in what part-session, they want the vote to take place. so we are proceeding with the debate and, by the end of the afternoon, the possible postponement of the vote will be discussed. i thank the commission for its patience and give it the floor.
mr president, a lot has been said, of course. i would like to make a point. the aids virus directly affects millions of people and improving health is a sine qua non and essential condition for africa's development. to fight this as effectively as possible, we need to offer women, men and adolescents a full range of care and services. we must ensure that women have access to the best possible information and education on sexual and reproductive health, and that women's education is a key element in helping them to make decisions in the field of sexual and reproductive health, and thus provide them with the means and methods necessary to protect themselves against aids. 1% of people with aids are on antiretroviral therapy. we must mobilize our energies to make generics available. this report is timely. we are moving in the direction of the millennium development goals. i shall vote for this text if no amendments are tabled to distort it.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to start by, of course, welcoming the main points of the speeches, because they correspond very much to the convictions which inspired the communication i drew up on africa. all the points i have heard, apart from one or two, are of course my own. first of all, i would like to say that i naturally agree with the need to improve coordination, convergence and coherence of action, and that this is an essential part of the communication and policy that i am trying to develop. you know that in this respect - and i think parliament will be able to help me very effectively in this case - i have proposed, in the context of what the council is currently discussing, to draw up a plan of action quickly, an action plan which is not just words, no, an action plan with real concrete lines of commitment, such as, for example, a country strategy paper common to the member states and the commission. we could debate together. there is no obligation on the part of the member states, but i think it would still be a great step forward if instead of 26 different documents or 26 different strategies per country, we had just one. that would be helpful. that is what i proposed in the action plan. a second aspect would also be to obtain joint programming. this would be another pillar of this action plan. i must say that at the moment the council is hesitating and we are working hard to try to get this small step forward, which is difficult to achieve even if it is based only on an obviously voluntary basis, since development is, as i have said, a shared competence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first pillar is the millennium development goals. i see that everyone agrees on this point. but i think it's difficult to isolate this third pillar from the first and second pillars, because you can't achieve the millennium development goals without peace and security, and you can't achieve them without growth and connectivity, and africa is a case in point. it is obvious that, in the absence of infrastructure, of measures to open up the market, of genuine transversal infrastructure - i am thinking in particular of sub-saharan africa - which would make it possible to liberate production economically, the task will be extremely difficult. and if we do not combine the third and second pillars, development will be reduced purely and simply, which nobody here wants, to a large-scale charity operation, with the fundamental principle that follows from this, that developing countries are dependent on us, the donors, which we do not want either. in reply to mr pflügler, who has not failed to emphasize human rights, i naturally agree with him that this is really crucial. a small remark, however: i think that if we could, under certain conditions, increase the proportion of budget support, we would be in a better position to negotiate substantial progress on human rights, but this is a debate which we will certainly have occasion to return to. as far as companies are concerned, i am dealing with them at the moment - i have said this, i have announced it and i will present the communication in question to you quite soon - and i have put forward the idea of an ethical and social label for companies working in developing countries. i also proposed the establishment of a permanent europe-africa entrepreneurship forum. as for the information that i proposed a reduction in the aids budget, i am not sure what the source of that is; it must be a misunderstanding. the fact is that when i went to london for the global fund replenishment conference, i unfortunately only had 90 million euros at my disposal. that being said, i would like to point out - i am not going to make my mea culpa every day - that europe provides more than 60% of the appropriations for this global fund. it's not nothing. the contribution of all member states and the commission represents just over 60% of the global fund. i have therefore not proposed any reduction in the fund; i simply put into this fund, for this fiscal year, what i had for 2006, what i had left for 2006. i can't do anything for 2007 because of the lack of financial prospects. i must admit that it is a bit of a joke: the british presidency was urging me to go further, but i was able to say to him: 'i am willing, but you will have to help me.' i would like to clarify a little about the african troops. i think that in principle the money needed to finance the peace facility should come from other sources than development appropriations. i think we agree on the principle. but from the moment we have no financial prospects, from the moment the evaluation that will be made of the effectiveness, of the positive consequences of the peace facility, an evaluation that will obviously prove to be very interesting and very positive, will conclude on the need to put money back into this peace facility when there are no financial prospects, i think that perhaps a solution would be to use some uncommitted means, to convert already committed means, which we know well that they will not be realized for a long time, to temporarily feed the peace facility. i would like to remind you that there is still some 35 million euros in the peace facility. but you should know that not everything is settled in sudan (darfur, etc.). we will also probably need a strengthened peace facility in the drc at some point; that is not excluded in any case. as for somalia, i met yesterday with the prime minister of that country; the european union is also in need of a strengthening of the peace facility in its country to ensure its security. i can therefore predict, without being mistaken, that this facility will require a great deal of money. i am afraid we cannot leave sudan until tomorrow. and i must say that this peace facility is a very useful and indispensable tool, if we want africans to also give life to the principle of ownership in terms of conflict prevention, peacekeeping, post-conflict situations, etc., to simply create the framework for a return to stability. in conclusion, i take it. i have to be pragmatic. it's very easy to say, "the principle, please, just the principle". as a result, there will be no more money to invest in the peace facility, and we will be left with no means to carry out the policies that we should be pursuing. what i hope is that we will have the financial perspectives and the stability instrument which normally should finance the peace facility and make it possible to get rid of the problem as soon as possible. there is one thing i have not quite grasped about coordination at the level of african states. mrs auken, i am in favour of encouraging coordination at the level of african states as well. we need to coordinate at all levels: at the national level, because this is our aid, and it has to be part of the government's poverty reduction strategy, at the regional level, at the international level, with the other donors. i therefore sincerely believe that coordination is also an important element, beyond coordination between our states. i think mr libicki has stressed the need for local help. i totally agree with that. this is why substantial resources have been allocated to support decentralisation. i have met ousmane sy, the former minister of the interior of mali, who we recently awarded a prize in belgium, and who is preparing a report on decentralisation for the commission, in this case for me, particularly on the congo. he's someone who's very specialized in this matter. i have also chaired working meetings in rwanda on decentralisation and i have seen on the ground the positive effect it can have. so i share that view. i do not see, however, any ideological positioning in the reference to reproductive health. i would say that this is not about ideology; it's humanism, and humanism, i believe, is part of the common heritage of all democrats. as regards the wto meeting in hong kong, mr rübig, you know very well that we are very attentive to this issue and that we are always hoping that we can get a positive agreement in hong kong. as regards your proposal for the eib, you should know - and this is important because it is entirely in line with what you have suggested - that we are working with mr philippe maystadt on a real strategy. we will probably sign, at the very beginning of next year - i met mr maystadt on monday and we will have another meeting in december - a memorandum of understanding between the eib and the commission to, firstly, pool resources but also to ensure that the decisions taken by the eib which relate to development can take better account of the dimension of development and the risk-taking associated with it. as regards mr schapira's speech, i have already answered it by answering another question. the european union, the commission and the member states together, finances more than 60% of the global fund. mrs. hall needs more money. i would say that we are obviously very involved in the preparation, in the monitoring of the electoral operations, whether in the drc or elsewhere, and you have kindly pointed out the fact that we have made a difference in the congo, so far. this is not to say that everything will be settled easily and things will not remain fragile, but i observe that as of today, the latest figure - i get numbers every day - of voter registration in congo is 21,761,000. i have to tell you that we had set the threshold of 15 million, and we are well above it, and it is still encouraging to see that the population has responded in a very strong way. as regards malaria, the commission is financing research under the research component of the sixth programme to find a vaccine against malaria. we are extremely present on that front too and it corresponds to your concerns. mr gahler's intervention: european states often continue to act as neo-colonial powers, for example through the control of natural resources. i have no answer to that. just know that my whole strategy is to get us out of these habits or these reflexes, consciously or unconsciously, of paternalism, of neo-colonialism. and in closing, i would like to say that the very foundation, the philosophy that underlies what we have proposed is the principle of appropriation. i hope, mr president, and i will end with this, that in the french version the translation of the word ownership has been corrected, which has been translated into french as 'propriété', which is not really the same as 'appropriation'. so ownership is the very basis of this new relationship that we want to establish with our african friends. i think i have been as thorough as i can, mr president. i would like to thank all the members who have been very active in supporting us. i would like to thank mrs martens in particular for her very good report. i hope that all this will help us at the council on monday to advance the common cause of this interest in africa and this necessary opening up of the continent.
i thank you, commissioner, for your clear and concise remarks. the debate is closed. the vote will in principle take place after the debate this afternoon, unless the house requests a postponement. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by anders wijkman, on behalf of the committee on development, on the proposal for a joint statement by the council, the european parliament and the commission on the european union's development policy 'the european consensus' (2004/2261 (ini)) (a6-0319/2005).
mr president, your request for a postponement of the vote on behalf of your group is on the record. it will be put to the house when it votes this afternoon. the deferral will be accepted or denied at that time and you can argue, but your request is well recorded.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the way in which the debates of this house are organized unfortunately shows how little interest it has in the problem of development. and i very much regret the european parliament's lack of will to promote a genuine policy of development and cooperation. beyond our resolutions, which tend to evaporate a little quickly, it would be better if our assembly were strongly involved in the elaboration of a coherent and concrete strategy for the future. we must congratulate and thank commissioner michel for his initiative to define, in a tripartite declaration by the council, the commission and parliament, the common principles to which the union and the 25 member states will refer in implementing their development and cooperation policy. the union will thus have a document setting out the european consensus on this issue. we believe this is an important step forward for at least two reasons. firstly, it is the first time that parliament has been involved to this extent in the policy-making process. the peoples of europe, through their representatives, therefore have a say in the broad guidelines of development and cooperation policy. secondly, and this is real progress, the time has finally come to seek synergy between the member states and the commission when it comes to action. and how can we respond to this initiative if we vote at the end of the session and almost in secret, when all the minds are converging today on one of the main issues of the legislature? mr president, there is no need to go into the substance of the debate which took place in committee and which, at the present time, would in fact bring nothing further. today i would like to congratulate our rapporteur on his commitment to this issue and on the successes he has already achieved in his discussions with the council and the commission. by taking into account the suggestions of the members of the committee on development and by successfully incorporating them into his text, the rapporteur has gathered around his approach a very large majority which supports him and affirms, for example, the will to insist in the joint declaration on the issues of education and health. that said, i want to be very clear: my group's support for today's report in no way prejudges our position on the final draft joint declaration. this requires a solemn vote by our assembly to be effective. if the commission's initiative is to be fully effective and if the joint declaration is to reflect the european consensus, it is and will be essential that the european parliament votes in plenary on the final text.
member of the commission. mr president, i think that all those who have followed this debate know very well what this means, namely, mr president, a humanistic vision and approach to people's lives, to everyday life, to individual freedom, to freedom of conscience and to freedom to be happy. that's what it covers. no, you're not going to trap me! i think i have more flying hours than you in politics, so rest assured you won't trap me by dragging me into a sulphurous debate, because that is a sulphurous debate. all the people, all the humanists here, whether they are christians, protestants, muslims or secularists, know very well what we are talking about. and i'm not falling for that trap. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed and i would not like to reopen it, mr libicki. i would like to ask you to speak on a point of order, but first tell me what article you are referring to.
the debate is closed, we will not be resuming it, and the commissioner has already answered this question in his speech and in his reply to mr posselt. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon, unless requested to be postponed.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on access to humanitarian aid in kashmir.
just before i pass the floor to the next speaker, i will simply clarify the rule, because i felt that some colleagues were surprised that i did not speak in the usual order, by having the larger groups speak first. the rule is that when a request is made to speak as an author, it is in the order of arrival at the services of the sitting that one speaks. so apparently, mrs. lynne was faster than mrs. stihler, who was faster than mr. elles, and so on. but when the speakers come to speak on behalf of their groups, we shall return to the usual order, with the epp speaking first, followed by the socialists, and so on. i was just going to call the rule back because i think i felt a little float.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission has made a rapid and generous response to help the victims of this terrible disaster. indeed, within hours of this devastating earthquake the first funding was made available, and field teams were despatched. eur 13.6 million had been allocated within a few days. the first tranche was made available within a few hours of the disaster. as the commission humanitarian funds for 2005 were depleted, the commission, through the echo and relex departments, requested eur 30 million from the reserve of the commission budget for humanitarian aid, and eur 10 million for reconstruction. we very much appreciate parliament’s cooperation in releasing these additional funds. as a result, the commission has been able to provide an overall financial package, as already mentioned, of eur 93.6 million in response to the crisis, of which eur 43.6 million will go to humanitarian relief, and eur 50 million to rehabilitation. the funding to date is mainly for shelter, health – including the red cross field hospital at muzaffarabad – water and sanitation, coordination, and logistics, including 11 helicopters, as was mentioned earlier today. commissioner ferrero-waldner is today leaving for pakistan where over the next two days she will take part in the reconstruction conference, along with united nations secretary-general kofi annan and other major international donors. i shall share with you some of our main concerns today. the commission is fully aware that the location and scale of this disaster makes it very difficult for all humanitarian organisations to deploy rapidly and deliver aid to the victims. an additional constraint on meeting needs and allocating the funds available has been the implementing capacity of the aid agencies. there must be a rapid improvement, especially in reaching out beyond the main hubs. i fully agree with you that coordination is very important. part of the role of the rapidly deployed echo field teams is to ensure or has been to ensure coordination. in addition, echo is also allocating funds to the un office for coordination of humanitarian affairs for their coordination role, including civil and military coordination of the use of military logistic support. concerning the issue of special trade measures, which was raised by one of the honourable members of this house, we are determined to take pakistan’s trade interests into account within the confines of our international obligations. pakistan will benefit from the new gsp from january 2006. for the first time in 10 years, all pakistan’s exports will be covered. this means that pakistan is getting identical treatment to the tsunami-affected countries. we in the commission are very concerned at the prospect of a secondary humanitarian disaster as winter approaches. that is your concern as well, as thousands of injured people remain stranded in isolated mountain areas without food, shelter or sanitation. a sustained wide-scale relief action throughout the winter period is therefore to be expected. it is a must for all of us. in view of this, let me inform you that the commission, through the echo dg, has just received a further eur 30 million from the emergency reserve. i want to thank you for your support in these joint efforts to help those who are in need.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on five motions for resolutions on the philippines (death sentence for european citizen francisco larrañaga).
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is extremely concerned by the retention of the death penalty law in the philippines and the omission by president gloria macapagal-arroyo to reinstate the moratorium on the death penalty lifted on 1 january 2004. the eu stance against the death penalty is based on the firm belief in the inherent dignity of all human beings and the inviolability of the human person. the member states, together with the commission, have strengthened their international activities in opposition to the death penalty as an integral part of eu human rights policy. they have also adopted eu guidelines laying down the basic principles to be followed in this respect. we know that there are currently more than 1 000 inmates on death row in the philippines. of these, 165 death sentences have been affirmed by the supreme court and can be stopped only by a presidential stay of execution. we are calling again on the philippine president to reprieve death-row convicts. we are particularly concerned about the supreme court’s sentence of 3 february 2004 condemning the spanish-filipino citizen francisco larrañaga to death and the refusal to reconsider the case in july 2004, thus ending all judicial channels for appeal. on 5 july 2004, the eu troika – consisting of the netherlands, the uk and the commission – handed an amicus curiae brief to the philippine department of foreign affairs in support of the motion for the reconsideration of the case. since then, the spanish embassy in manila has had the lead on that specific case, while the commission is dealing with general issues related to the support of the campaign against the death penalty by various actors in the philippines. the uk embassy, in cooperation with the uk organisation reprieve, has sent a lawyer to the philippines for three months, starting in october 2005, to investigate the case. we also support the various internal parliamentary initiatives on the revocation of the death penalty law that are currently being debated in the philippines congress, and we encourage the efforts by civil society to work towards that goal. it is important to insist on the reconsideration of the larrañaga case, as he has not had a fair trial according to international legal standards. so, even if parliament ruled in favour of the abolition of the death penalty in exchange for life sentences, the larrañaga case would remain flawed. the eu should continue to insist on the right to a fair trial for mr larrañaga.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on burma/myanmar.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by saying that the commission fully shares the concerns regarding the situation in burma/myanmar, as expressed here today by honourable members of the european parliament. there is no doubt that several issues are of serious concern, in particular the proceedings of the so-called national roadmap, the human rights and forced labour situation and many more issues that have been mentioned today. in this context, let me emphasise that the commission continues to call for the unconditional release of aung san suu kyi and other political leaders who remain in detention. in the past, the commission maintained contacts with most of the shan leaders who have now been sentenced, and it goes without saying that the conduct of these politically motivated trials was unacceptable according to democratic and legal standards. the commission continues to urge the regime to engage in a real dialogue with all political actors, including the national league for democracy and ethnic groups. we are convinced that only a transparent and constructive dialogue between legitimate stakeholders can lead to national reconciliation and a return to democracy. probably, the regime will deliver on its roadmap. it will probably formally accomplish the national convention later this year and organise a referendum on the draft constitution in 2006. the result will certainly fall short of our expectations in terms of real democracy. it should nevertheless be considered a small step in the right direction. burma/myanmar is partly isolated from the western world and partly isolating itself. however, we must understand that the country continues to enjoy a comfort zone in the region, especially with regard to its neighbours. there is a degree of intra-asean solidarity, despite the position of individual political leaders in asean. i mention these issues because they illustrate the difficult background against which we operate. without any doubt, we must voice our concern for the people in the country. the eu is called upon to help the people of burma/myanmar. the commission therefore strongly supports a significant increase in humanitarian aid and assistance. the commission maintains that our common position generally reflects what should be done. we should continue voicing the union’s criticism of members of the junta and policies pursued by the regime. this can be done only if we continue the agreed eu policy by keeping communication channels open and using high-level asem and eu-asean meetings, or the margins of such meetings. an update of the common position needs to be discussed with and agreed by all eu member states, bearing in mind the possible positive or negative developments in the country, and reflecting our values and political interests. this would also apply if the eu were to nominate a special envoy. a year ago, in october 2004, we strengthened the eu common position. we introduced a more comprehensive visa ban and prohibited support for international financing. any further change in the common position – apart from the fact that we would need all the partners to agree – would need to ensure the legality of such a measure under international law and ensure that the people of burma/myanmar did not become the victims. the people of burma/myanmar should not pay twice: once for living under a repressive regime and twice as a result of the economic sanctions imposed by the west. then there is the question of whether the un security council should discuss burma. most of us have seen the recent report, endorsed by vaclav havel and archbishop desmond tutu. the report concludes that the un security council should deliberate on the burma/myanmar issue. however, we are all aware that it will prove very difficult to pass any resolution on this subject given the reluctance of some permanent members, notably china. i assure honourable members of parliament that the commission will continue its work on burma/myanmar, stepping up its assistance for people in need and, at the same time, pressing for democracy, human rights, the release of political detainees and for democratic reform and political transition. without a doubt, the overarching goal of our dealings with burma is the transition towards democracy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate, that is to say now.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
mr elles, that was not the oral amendment which the competent services had sent me. it seemed to me that you had a first amendment on paragraph 11, followed by a series of oral amendments.
that's perfect, you're making the job of the presidency easier by avoiding political arbitration.
in fact, i think the wording proposed jointly by mr elles, mrs stihler and mrs lynne is quite clear: we are talking about the north west frontier province of pakistan, afghanistan, india and in particular the kashmir region. it doesn't say that kashmir is in the country you mentioned. i think that's pretty clear. (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
i have read your amendment in french. perhaps the interpreters, who have all the texts before them, have made a little confusion, but it is your text in your language which will be taken into the minutes.
i think the house is well informed, the arguments have been given. i shall therefore put to the vote the request from the socialist group for the vote to be postponed. (parliament rejected the request for a postponement of the vote)
i believe that mr posselt was in the chamber when the rapporteur spoke. i'll give him the floor right now. mr posselt, i believe you are speaking against the postponement of the vote.
at the moment i have a request for a postponement from only one group, the pse group. i think the rapporteur is not here, which simplifies the procedure. is there still an orator for and an orator against?
mr president, i simply wanted to confirm what my colleague mr posselt has said. the epp-ed group wants a vote to be held.
i simply want to know why we are having these debates this afternoon. they were originally scheduled earlier, but we were unable to close them in time because of the length of the voting sessions. in the hierarchy of relationships, everyone is a judge. i think that the debates on thursday afternoon, particularly on the emergency, also have some political value. the rule is that absent members cannot take members present hostage. we shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a deferral made by our colleague. (parliament rejected the request for a postponement of the vote) we're done with the votes.
i wish all the brave colleagues who have stayed until the end a very good return to their homes and i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 6.20 p.m.)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, we are on the eve of a wto conference which was to make it possible to take a decisive step in implementing the doha work programme, the development programme, adopted in 2001 and which was to make it possible to put the rules of trade at the service of development. unfortunately, as you have told us, commissioner, it is now clear that the hong kong conference will not be able to produce the results expected in the main areas of the negotiations. progress since the framework agreement concluded at the wto on 1 august 2004 has been insufficient, sometimes almost invisible. much valuable time has been lost and the level of ambition for the hong kong meeting is now being revised downwards, with the real decisions being deferred to a later conference in 2006. i would like to stress at the outset, on behalf of the socialist group, that this must in no way lead to a downward revision of the ambitions of the doha round itself in terms of development objectives. any reduction in the commitments of the developed countries in relation to the implementation of the doha agenda would lead to a substantial reduction in the potential benefits for the developing countries. as you know, commissioner, the world bank has carried out a study which shows that if the probable scenario based on the proposals made today by the united states and the european union were to come to fruition, the benefits of the doha round would again, as in previous rounds, go mainly to the major trading powers, the developed countries, while the benefits for the developing countries would amount to less than 0.2 cents per capita per day, which would reduce the number of poor people in the world by just 1%. i also believe that insisting on the idea of reciprocity in the commitments required of the developing countries in return for the efforts made by the developed countries, particularly in terms of opening up markets, risks blocking the negotiations and, from this point of view, we must not forget what happened in cancún. we are convinced that if the doha development round negotiations succeed, while maintaining the priority of rebalancing in favour of developing countries, rather than reciprocity, they will ultimately bring tangible benefits to all, including the european union, which will share in the benefits of new global economic growth and the development of new markets for european products. it is therefore essential that the doha round be a success. to this end, the rules and agreements negotiated in hong kong must aim at a more equitable sharing of the benefits of globalisation; they must take better account of differences in levels of development; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they must not weaken the most sensitive economic sectors and the nascent industries and must, on the contrary, contribute to economic diversification. they must recognize the right of developing countries to control the pace of their trade opening and their national development strategies. we are calling for more flexibility from the various actors, including the european union. i think that in the field of agriculture you still have some room for manoeuvre. for example, our group tabled an amendment to ask for a commitment, with a timetable to support it, to abolish export subsidies by 2010. we are asking that in the field of industrial tariffs, a formula of the swiss formula, which you are supporting today and which does not respect the principle of 'less than total reciprocity', should not be applied. we must accept that a certain level of protection in the industrial sector is maintained for developing countries. in the area of services, we insist that the european union's demands on market access for service providers preserve the right of all wto member countries, including developing countries, to regulate their services and in particular their public services. we are asking that health, education, audiovisual are clearly excluded from the negotiation, but also that public services such as water and energy are not dismantled or weakened in the framework of the gats negotiations. finally, you noted the strong reluctance of the developing countries to your proposal for a benchmarking, which it would be more reasonable to withdraw. we support you on the development aid package. we need a lasting solution for access to medicines which includes a revision of the agreement on intellectual property itself. the rules on special and differential treatment must be strengthened. finally, there is a need for a financial facility to support technical assistance and capacity building for poor countries. finally, our group believes that sensitive issues such as social and environmental issues cannot be excluded from discussions within the wto. it is also a condition for public support for the multilateral system, which can only be saved if it is reformed.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we must not despair of anything or anyone if even mr mandelson comes to the conclusion that, and i quote, whatever we offer is not enough for the very competitive and aggressive producers and exporters of brazil, australia, new zealand and the united states. it is therefore not too late for the twenty-five to seriously review the mandate of their negotiator, which dates, for the most part, from 1999, i.e. before the double failure of seattle and cancún. in this context, my group would be happy to submit to you ten proposals for new and closely linked priorities, which i shall call the ten commandments of an alternative vision of europe's ambition on the international scene. firstly, as we are on the eve of world aids day, i would mention the need to find a permanent solution to the problem of access to medicines in countries lacking pharmaceutical production capacity. the persistent blocking of intellectual property by industrialists is criminal and unacceptable in this respect. secondly, i would like to mention the official priority of the doha round which has been completely sidelined in practice: development. europe has gradually sacrificed all the lomé achievements on the altar of the wto - stabex, sysmin, the banana agreement, the sugar protocol - in favour of the signing of free trade agreements, with, as a bonus, the introduction of visas for nationals of the countries we used to call our privileged partners. we believe that we must change our approach in this respect, so that we never again see tragedies like those of lampedusa, ceuta, melilla or elsewhere. thirdly, i would like to mention agriculture. we are in favour of genuine european farming, the right to guaranteed prices, the principle of food sovereignty, and respect for the multifunctional nature of agriculture - social, environmental and territorial. what must be fought is productivism, dumping practices which destabilise the fragile economies of the south and increase their dependence, and the choice of full liberalization in order to open up access to land, seeds, water and the market for goods and services to multinational groups. the time i have is not enough for me to discuss our other priorities in telegraphic style. fourth, the wto must ban the patenting of living things and protect the biological resources and technological knowledge of local communities from bio-piracy. fifth, health, education, culture, audiovisual, water and all public services must be explicitly excluded from any trade agreement. we are opposed to the gats and in favour of designating global public goods, excluded from the scope of the market. sixth, the cultural exception: no wto rule should prevent a state from defending what it considers to be its cultural heritage. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. eight, social and environmental standards. in contrast to the obsession with lowering costs, binding and constantly evolving minimum standards are needed, with compensatory aid to be given to the countries in the greatest difficulty. nine, it is urgent to democratize the wto, to ensure that each member country has the effective means to participate on an equal footing in the negotiations, to guarantee the transparency of the debates, to involve parliamentarians in the decision-making process. finally, the wto must be integrated into the united nations system and a hierarchy of international law standards must be established giving priority to fundamental rights and, in particular, to international conventions on the rules of international trade. mr president, may the union be inspired by this type of approach and i think that its existential crisis will begin to be nothing more than a bad memory.
madam president, i would just like to intervene in this debate which is drawing to a close, to make a remark, mainly to the commissioner, and draw a conclusion. my point is that, following the reform of the sugar com, we see that the least developed countries are also the ones who are now asking us, contrary to what is often said, not to continue with the logic of lowering prices and preferential access to markets, but to try, on the contrary, to define relations which really allow their development. that is the main point i wanted to make. it is a bit paradoxical in that we can protect agriculture in particular, and at the same time we have the capacity to ensure that many of the least developed countries have the opportunity to develop. i draw the conclusion from this remark to the commissioner that in the overall negotiation, in the search for a general balance to avoid a return to bilateral logic where the balance of power would prevail, two major elements must be kept in mind and treated on the same footing: on the one hand, negotiation on access and on tariffs and, on the other hand, protection and the idea that preferential agreements are as useful today for development as the purely commercial logic. that is the message i wanted to convey this afternoon.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleagues have pointed out in their speeches, cambodia, laos and vietnam are three countries where human rights are being violated in a blatant and persistent manner, under the passive eye of the international community. although these countries are implementing the economic reforms necessary for their development, they are neglecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of their citizens, especially ethnic and religious minorities. i would like to draw your attention in particular to the situation of the mong population in laos. for thirty years, this people have been subject to continuous persecution by the people's army because of the military involvement of their parents or grandparents on the side of the united states during the vietnam war. it is estimated that some 20,000 of them are surviving in the jungle in appalling conditions, conditions which violate the principles of human rights to which we are committed. they feed on leaves and roots and are forced to move their villages regularly due to insecurity. their children are not educated and suffer from malnutrition. several hundred of them surrendered to the authorities, were arrested or disappeared. the central government denies the facts. the international community has recently learned of their story through the media. today we must finally open our eyes and, above all, act by firmly condemning this campaign of repression and even extermination, carried out with impunity. we must act by calling on the laotian government to allow free access to the affected areas for international and non-governmental organizations - the only way for these people to receive the food and care they need - and, above all, by pressing the government to integrate these people into laotian society with the fundamental rights and freedoms that have been denied to them until today. the fact that the lao economy depends on foreign aid, and in large part on aid from the european union, suggests that the international community and the european union have the means to exert pressure on the authorities in that country. we hope, madam president, that the commission and the council will heed these appeals to help the people of south-east asia.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has just been mentioned, our debate today concerns the regulation to set up a mechanism for countries which do not have the capacity to produce medicines which are vital for the public health of their citizens. the fact that we are addressing this issue on the eve of world aids day should prompt us to send a strong and clear message to those countries which are so dramatically affected. the united nations children's fund (unicef) has just reminded us of a sad reality: never before have so many people been living with hiv. the number of infected people has exceeded 40 million this year and sub-saharan africa remains the most affected with two-thirds of the sick and three-quarters of infected women worldwide. from the outset, it was clear that parliament shared the same priority, namely the rapid implementation of the regulation under consideration, so that the countries in need could benefit as soon as possible from the flexibilities offered by the wto solution of 30 august 2003. this is a first step in the european union's respect for the spirit of the doha declaration on trips and public health. i would like to thank my colleague mr van hecke very warmly for the work he has done in listening to and working with the co-rapporteurs. it is a responsible attitude to come to us today with a compromise which has taken account of the positions defended by the members of parliament. the final text contains several of our demands, in particular the extension of the scope of application to the least developed countries and certain developing countries which are not members of the wto. given the vital role played by ngos and some international organisations in the provision of health services and treatments, i am pleased that they are allowed to deal directly with patent holders to purchase and distribute generic medicines. i am also pleased that my proposal for a simplified procedure for the additional quantities has been accepted. there are many positive aspects. i have a few regrets, however, particularly as regards the appropriate remuneration to be paid to patent holders. i would have liked the 4% ceiling proposed by the rapporteur to be binding in all situations and not just in emergency situations. we have nevertheless succeeded in ensuring that the humanitarian and non-commercial reasons for the compulsory licence are taken into account when calculating this remuneration. i hope that this regulation will be evaluated quickly to see if it is viable. given the complexity of the mechanism he is seeking to implement, i will remain vigilant as to whether this solution is finally incorporated into the rules governing intellectual property in the wto. only this assessment will enable us to draw the appropriate conclusions to review and adapt our response effectively to the public health problems facing the countries of the south. meeting the challenge of access to medicines requires a more comprehensive approach and the regulation we are discussing today is only one step in that direction. in the wto, europe must commit itself to ensuring that all the public health gains of the doha agreement are actually implemented. this includes ensuring that all trade agreements, bilateral and regional, do not include additional conditions on intellectual property that would dismantle the achievements of the doha declaration. in addition, if the application of this declaration leaves much to be desired in practice, the union must also seek to identify new ways of facilitating access to medicines in developing countries. the need for second-line treatments, for which no generic is yet available and the price is unaffordable, is already upon us and requires further action. the fight against aids, and i stress, many other diseases that primarily affect the poorest populations, is far from being won. the forthcoming wto conference in hong kong provides us with the ideal opportunity to put the issue of access to medicines back into the centre of the debate. adopting this regulation today offers us a first concrete solution for thousands of patients awaiting treatment, but let us not forget that we must start looking for sustainable solutions tomorrow to meet the scale of the challenge we face.
mr president, commissioner, the judgment of the court of justice of 13 september 2005 recognises the exclusive competence of the community to adopt criminal sanctions to ensure the effectiveness of community law. it thus enables the union to reaffirm that the protection of its citizens is one of its fundamental principles. it also gives us the opportunity to put an end to a recurrent conflict between the european institutions by clarifying the division of powers between the first and third pillars. the case before the court of justice concerned a directive on environmental protection which included criminal sanctions, and that was the di lello report of the committee on civil liberties. we agree with the european commission's analysis. the consequences of this judgment go far beyond the protection of the environment and are likely to affect all community policies and the fundamental freedoms recognised by the treaty. serious violations of citizens' fundamental rights must be punished by effective, proportionate and dissuasive penal measures. this is what we want for the data retention directive, for example, because it will have a major impact on the privacy of european citizens. one of the major consequences is that the codecision procedure will apply in areas which were previously subject to a procedure of voting by unanimity with the european parliament's simple opinion. the judgment gives the european parliament a decisive role and this strengthening of democratic control is a step forward for democracy as a whole. the commission identified several framework decisions adopted on the wrong legal basis. the definition of such sanctions should be based on community provisions relating to the protection of fundamental rights. i would therefore like to end my remarks by asking the commissioner a specific question: has the commission considered that the framework decision on racism and xenophobia could also benefit from this review?
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr roure and mr buitenweg for raising this question, which is of central importance in europe in terms of the legal space in criminal law. i share the approach of both speakers and i assure them that the commission will work to give full effect to this important decision of the court of justice, implementing the principle that, where it is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of community rules, a criminal penalty may be introduced by the community legislator through the codecision procedure, and only with it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission will of course have to adhere to two main principles when formulating proposals to introduce criminal sanctions: firstly, the need for the criminal law, because criminal penalties can only be introduced when they are necessary; it is a universal principle of law; secondly, the coherence of the various provisions, because once again we must avoid conflicts between criminal provisions which could theoretically lead to serious legal uncertainty if there were no coherence. we have identified some areas where the court's decision can be applied in practice. you will probably be aware that we have decided to bring an action before the court of justice in connection with the framework decision on marine pollution. we did so a few days ago because the time-limits for appeal were not yet expired and we thought it appropriate to give an immediate demonstration by challenging the framework decision on marine pollution before the court of justice, considering it one of the matters in which, instead of the framework decision, a directive containing criminal sanctions should have been adopted. we have also proposed a method for extending this modus operandi to other fields. for example, when a framework decision has already been tabled, without changing the substance of the text, an agreement between parliament, the council and the commission could adopt the correct legal basis and at the same time avoid opening a debate on the substance. such a solution would greatly speed things up. a final answer on the two issues of racism and non-discrimination. i am naturally in favour of legislation which criminalizes at least incitement to racial hatred, and therefore the commission of acts of racism. in this respect, a criminal sanction is certainly necessary, although you will be aware that there is unfortunately still no agreement on the framework decision either. i promised that at the beginning of 2006 i would propose a new initiative on racism and xenophobia to overcome the deadlock that has arisen in the council. article 13 of the treaty can be used to introduce criminal sanctions in cases of discrimination based on race or nationality. the instrument exists, in particular article 13, which is clearly a directive, and therefore a community matter in the first place. in such cases, the commission may also adopt proposals for criminal legislation.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the council and the member states have argued before the court, a teleological reading of the treaties leads once again to a shake-up of the letter, if not to say a violation of it, in particular articles 135 and 280 of the ec treaty and 29 et seq. of the teu which clearly reserve criminal jurisdiction to the states. so, without a treaty, without a mandate, against our states and the council, the court and the commission have agreed to initiate, through this communitization of criminal law, the fusion of the pillars of competence within the union. this was one of the effects of the treaty establishing a european constitution, and i would like to remind our colleagues who still refuse to accept it that it was rejected and that, under international law, it has become obsolete. the commission has obviously not been slow to fall into the trap. on 23 november it added to environmental criminal law a first list of nine new criminal powers which are outside the jurisdiction of the member states. this continuous absorption of national competences is also reflected in the future european civil code which is still being prepared, without any legal basis, by the von bar group, subsidized by the european taxpayer to the tune of five million euros. in accordance with a mysterious hegemonic principle, according to which the peoples are only an indifferent parameter, or even an obstacle to be overcome, are the supranational institutions taking revenge on the popular votes of 29 may and 1 june? these legal blows distort the model of europe to which our countries had agreed. we are facing what the president of the french constitutional council, pierre mazeaud, feared at the beginning of the year: a serious vice of consent. i would therefore like to say this, calmly but solemnly: those in this house who accept these blows of force without reacting are committing an act against their government, against their parliament, against their constitution, against the european treaties themselves and against the peoples, preparing new insurrections, not just electoral ones, against a europe which is decidedly no longer theirs.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, parliament will be voting tomorrow on the content of the white paper. the commission will present its legislative proposal next wednesday. is she ready yet? it is to be hoped that the commission will still be able to hear the echoes of our discussions. it would be a pity if it were not, because the report which has been presented to us, unfortunately at this late hour, is of a high quality. i would also like to thank mrs kratza for the quality of her report and for her courtesy. no one here disputes the contribution of healthy competition in shipping where most of the players are private operators. but does this mean that we must go as far as total deregulation? to do so would be to ignore the changes that have taken place in recent years and to deny the benefits of the present system. with the decisions of the court of justice and the european commission, maritime conferences have ceased to be cartels. they play a useful role in ensuring stability and quality of service and enhancing maritime safety through regular fleet renewal. they also ensure the diversity of operators. however, the present system can still be improved. the exchange of information could be streamlined. clear rules for calculating surcharges must also be laid down. on the other hand, it seems to us dangerous to repeal regulation no 4056/86 without proposing a replacement text, even if it is provisional. the dry-cleaning of the present system would accelerate concentration in the sector. the reduction in the number of operators could have a negative impact on the service of certain ports and on prices. by revision we mean "improvement" not "abrogation". this is the message that parliament should be sending to the european commission and the council with this report. we hope that it will be heard.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mrs toia on the quality of her report and thank her for working with the fictitious rapporteurs and taking our amendments. i would like to recall some of the main points. the creation of a single telecommunications market covering the whole of europe should be encouraged. this single market is necessary to reduce the digital divide, which is a priority objective of the european union. however, this transition to a new regulatory and provision framework for electronic communications must be made with respect for citizens and consumers by providing the transparency and security necessary for the proper use of telecommunications. this implies transparency on public health and safety issues, including radiation measurement; it also implies a properly regulated market which alone guarantees fair service and price conditions. this is particularly true of international roaming, or 'roaming'. it is essential to develop an action plan, accompanied by a timetable, to enable consumers to benefit from continuity of service, which translates into potential international roaming throughout the whole of european territory, at the best possible cost and in the shortest possible time. on 7 december, the single internet address .eu will be launched for the benefit of businesses. the commission is implementing this long-awaited decision, and it is desirable that it should act in favour of a single tariff resulting from a single indicative code for the whole of the european union. this must be a priority of the action plan, the importance and importance of which i have just mentioned, and it must strengthen a telecommunications area adapted to the freedom of movement and communication of people.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, we wanted to take advantage of the two reports by our excellent colleague mr becsey on the question of vat to put an oral question to this house, which i hope will be followed by the adoption of a resolution. the vat system with reduced rates in labour-intensive sectors is a very unpleasant, if not complex, economic, social, political and legal situation. we are now faced with a system that has been extended twice. we have here a commission proposal from 2003, which parliament voted in favour of almost unanimously on 4 december 2003 and which has since been blocked in the council. we are often told that better regulation means that parliament has to work faster, but i sometimes get the impression that we also have to look at how things are going on in the council. we are here in a field where unanimity is required and, while some member states will intervene on a strictly national basis of analysis by playing on vat rates, they block the council from extending this system which has proved its worth. the system makes it possible to support employment, to combat undeclared work and to organise taxation more coherently at member state level. that is why our committee has tabled this oral question, in which we fully support both the commission's initiative and the successive efforts of the luxembourg and british presidencies, which have each put forward a compromise proposal that is fully in line with the wishes expressed by this parliament as far back as 2003. we are now at the end of the road: this twice-renewed system is due to expire at the end of the year and, in nine member states, whole sectors still do not know at this very moment which tax regime will apply to them from 1 january next year. we are today on the eve of an ecofin council at which i hope the ministers for economic affairs and finance will hear the very strong signal that this house wishes to send them through this oral question, but also through several written declarations which have been deposited in the register of our assembly and signed by many colleagues. the luxembourg proposal, which has been taken up by the british presidency, makes it possible to clarify, simplify, harmonize and generalize what has hitherto been a mere experiment. firstly, the construction and home care sectors must maintain the reductions in vat rates. the commission is proposing to extend a more flexible mechanism and to extend it until 2015. the aim is to delete in a consistent manner what is contained in the famous annex h. the aim is, on the initiative of the british presidency, to carry out an evaluation of the whole mechanism every five years. i think we have balanced proposals here which will make it possible, i repeat, to support employment in labour-intensive sectors - that is the coherence of the proposed tax mechanism - to combat undeclared work and to contribute to what is becoming the leitmotiv of this house - and, i hope, beyond this house, of the council - namely better regulation and the objectives of the lisbon strategy. let me say again to the council, even though i see that it is not represented here this morning, how important it is to get the agreement of the ministers for economic affairs and finance. i believe that the solidarity which must also govern the work of this college should lead, at the very least, if the luxembourg and british proposal unfortunately could not pass the unanimous threshold, to extend the system as it exists for another year. that would be the least bad of the two.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, who would dare today to announce the destruction of 170 000 jobs in our former union countries? no, it is a fact. if the ecofin council of ministers on 6 december does not maintain the reduced rate of vat, this catastrophic scenario will occur as early as 2006. the introduction in 1999 of the experimental vat at reduced rates for labour-intensive services has proved its effectiveness. it has been a job creator. in france, for example, the btp (building, public works) estimates that 60,000 permanent jobs have been created. it also helped to fight against illegal work. in france too, the number of construction offences has been cut in half. this is also a good measure to combat global warming. the reduced rate vat for energy saving works will benefit both consumers and businesses and represents a potential for non-delocalised jobs. so what more convincing arguments could the council put forward to reject the continuation of the reduced rate of vat? ladies and gentlemen, in france the people have already expressed their anger at a europe which no longer meets their expectations. so we are really expecting positive signals from the council tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 may, a few days before the referendum on the european constitution, the presidency of the union announced that an agreement was imminent on lowering vat for the catering sector in france, from 19.6% to 5.5%. to get the vote yes, the french government had to boldly confirm this promise throughout the campaign, a promise that is actually very old since it was already on the agenda of the candidate chirac, in 2002, and even in 1995. similarly, in its draft 2006 finance law, the french government, betting on an agreement at european level, announced and planned a one-year extension of the reduced vat rate for renovation works. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the taxation of savings income in the form of dividends. so, after our peoples have said no to the superstate, is it not time to tell the truth to the europeans? trying to do everything at 25 is paralyzing. is it not time to imagine a different europe, one with different geometries and geographies?
jacques chirac deliberately lied to french restaurant owners by making them believe that he could reduce vat on their business without asking permission from brussels. it is not certain that the council will reach agreement before the end of the year on the revision of the vat directive, and in particular on the application of a reduced rate for labour-intensive services. on 1 january 2006, if the authorisation of these reduced rates is not extended in some way, entire sectors, first and foremost the building sector, will be hit hard. why are we here? for labour services, this is a manoeuvre to push the council to adopt a comprehensive reform of the vat directive. for restoration, the annexes have to be changed. germany is opposed to this. it does not want to see similar demands flourishing in its own country at a time when it intends to increase its indirect taxation by 20%. is germany wrong? no. these problems would not exist if the states had retained their fiscal sovereignty and could use it to stimulate employment. the real mistake, the real wrong, is on the part of those who wanted to strip the states of their royal prerogatives.
the european union has made employment its priority and yet it is not in a position to take a decision on the application of the reduced vat rate in labour-intensive sectors. the council has not yet been able to reach agreement on the list of sectors eligible for the scheme. it is not responsible to repeat a council decision in haste from year to year. the legal and economic insecurity that hangs over these sectors of activity is no longer acceptable. in the btp, the reduced rate on renovation has enabled thousands of small businesses, the first to be affected by this measure, to increase their activity and to hire. in home services, this reduced rate has reduced clandestine work and improved hiring conditions. in the case of catering, which is a major source of employment in europe, it is certain that the application of the reduced vat rate will produce the same beneficial effects in the states which would wish to apply this measure. i therefore ask the council to take up its responsibilities and to find an agreement which will unlock the employment potential of the labour-intensive sectors.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
mr president, there was a translation error, so the english version is the authoritative one. the vote on amendment no 3 does not remove the paragraph 13 clause which says that an exception in the area of services must cover the health, education and audiovisual sectors. so in voting for amendment no 3 we are saying that there must be a distinction between commercial services and public services and that public services such as water, sanitation and energy must not be dismantled or weakened, and we are maintaining that education, health and audiovisual must also be exempted.
mr. desire, that means the original english version is authentic. we'll check all the translations to make sure they're in line with this original. before the vote on paragraph 19
mr president, i fear there has been a slight confusion. there is one point on which i agree with mr sturdy. paragraph 19 does indeed mention the investment agreement and that is a mistake, since it is a paragraph on access to medicines and therefore it is the intellectual property agreement - the trips agreement in english and the trips agreement in french - that should be mentioned and not the mic (trim) agreement, the investment agreement. that is why we have asked for a separate vote to delete the paragraph on the investment agreement. i do not think we can put that sentence back at the beginning of the paragraph because that paragraph really has nothing to do with this agreement on investment.
we have now finished with the votes.
in writing. thanks to the commitment of the uk presidency and the european parliament rapporteurs, agreement was reached on this regulation on compulsory licensing for medicines patents. the agreement is a rebalancing of the european commission's proposal, which, compared with the wto decision, represented additional obstacles to access to medicines for countries facing serious health problems. this compromise with the council is satisfactory as the compulsory licensing system is extended to ngos, international organisations and non-wto countries; it authorises exports to countries belonging to the same regional group. i regret the refusal to allow technology transfer to the countries of the south and the retention of the possibility for the member states to impose additional conditions. this legislation, which will not enter into force until two and a half years after the adoption of the wto decision, is necessary for a large number of developing countries facing serious health problems. i am pleased that this decision comes on world aids day.
in writing. as early as 1989, the risks of human contamination by the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse) agent were foreseeable. the commission and member states such as france waited until 1996 to take protective measures. similarly, the ultra-liberalism of mrs thatcher's government had led the british government to dismantle the public veterinary networks. when foot-and-mouth disease swept through british cattle and pig farms in 2003, there was no sanitary barrier. millions of animals were killed as a precaution and giant logs burned everything. except for the ideological folly of ultra-liberalism and blind free trade. today, after the laxity of the laissez-faire, we are going to the obscurantism of primary fears about avian influenza. all this in the name of a precautionary principle that is nothing more than a regressive reflex of a european amish elite. a virus, nonexistent today, born in the imagination of a political world, which through unbridled health activism wants to redeem itself for its past health inconsistencies, would threaten humanity with a cinematic pandemic equivalent to the spanish flu. from there, we accumulate ineffective antivirals (tamiflu) while raising the smokestacks of fear to make us forget about the shortcomings on relocations, islamization and other real problems that are not being treated.
in writing. what does the euro area have to offer today? the lowest growth rate of the industrialized countries. the unemployment. the rising cost of living. the absurd budgetary constraints. the explosion of public debt. a non-existent exchange rate policy and an overvalued euro. a european central bank focused on inflation fears, to the point that it is now preparing to raise its key interest rates at the risk of jeopardizing economic activity and employment. the euro has caused a lot of disillusionment and damage, which will be aggravated by a growing divergence of the economies of the area. the day after the new member states joined, polls in the western press showed that while their citizens were in favour of an accession that would permanently anchor them on the side of democracy, they did not grasp all the implications. many of them, for example, were, and no doubt still are, convinced that the changeover to the euro was a possibility and not an obligation. the question is less whether or not a country can introduce euro coins and banknotes once it adopts the single currency. the question is whether its citizens agree and whether they understand all the consequences. they must be consulted by referendum.
in writing. fifty years ago, two frenchmen, maurice lauré and georges egret, invented the greatest technology in the history of taxation. that is to say, the vat applied by more than 123 countries, including the countries of the union since the first directive in 1967. in the 1990s, the monoteist religion of the single market wanted a single vat whose cross-border legal regime should be that of the state of origin of the transaction and not the state of consumption or destination. the risk was that it would be a continental clearing house, a veritable gas factory distributing vat revenue from intra-community trade; the unanimity of the states enabled the council to impose, on a 'permanent provisional' basis, taxation in the sovereign country of consumption. the intelligent thing to do today would be to put european labour on a par with world labour in terms of taxation, by abolishing, after a century of error, the stupid tax on labour. similarly, vat, with its genius of deduction, must be used to clone customs duties to make them deductible upstream, for the benefit of the exporter, thus solving the economic and social ills of globalisation with relocations and unemployment.
in writing. in doha, the commission is about to sacrifice our agriculture and our food security. it is preparing to support the agreement on trade in services, the famous gats which is nothing but a bolkestein directive on a global scale. it intends to lower our tariffs even further, although they are already the lowest in the world. and it will only weakly defend european interests against dumping of all kinds, piracy and counterfeiting, or the necessary respect of a minimum of social and environmental standards by its competitors. it is with remarkable consistency and blindness that this parliament welcomes the benefits of globalisation and reserves its considerations on the protection and diversification of economies, the necessary consideration of national interests, the freedom to choose the pace and speed of liberalisation, or the preservation of employment, to developing countries alone. and since this assembly is repeating itself, i will repeat myself. global trade is unequal. he's not loyal. but it is the european countries and their peoples who are the main victims.
in writing. after seattle, doha, cancun, here comes the hong kong summit to continue 60 years of philosophical and technical error on the reduction of tariffs and eventually their abolition. in the name of a ricardian theory not only without any serious scientific basis, but above all constantly contradicted by the facts. continued tariff reductions would promote economic prosperity. yet, after decades of open trade, africa is becoming increasingly impoverished. the abolition of customs duties would make "the wealth of the nations". the 1994 nafta free trade agreement has destroyed mexican farmers in north america. the peoples would like this tariff reduction. in november 2005, the indigenous peoples of the andes in ecuador rejected the fta, the free trade agreement that the bush administration wants to impose on colombia, peru and ecuador. the world bank, the oecd, the imf and the wto have all argued that lowering customs barriers raises living standards. the banana case is here to prove otherwise. the wto and its summit is the slave market dressed up by ricardo, adam smith and other impostor preachers from the holy book of the jungle.
in writing. i voted with pleasure for the motion for a resolution on the development of sport tabled and supported by my distinguished colleague, mrs maria martens, because sport is one of those disciplines which bring man together and advance him on the field of wisdom and progress. this resolution should be the starting point for an ambitious sport policy for the european union, based on the national sports federations of the member states, particularly at youth level.
in writing. i would remind you that the french and dutch people's rejection of the european constitution by a large majority in a referendum has rendered the text definitively obsolete. the repeated references to this text in parliament's reports are a denial of democracy. those who claim to represent the europeans should be the first to take their wishes into account when it is clearly expressed. secondly, this parliament, which does not represent the views of the peoples of europe, since it supports, for example, the accession of turkey, settlement immigration or the principle of the country of origin in the bolkestein directive, is unfortunately not a guarantor of the proper functioning of europe. he did not sanction the santer commission. he has engaged in a selective witch hunt when the barroso commission was appointed. not for the sake of europe, but for ideological reasons and power struggles between institutions. finally, europe is not a state. the commission is not, and should not be, a government. it's just a board of officials. the approval of its president and its composition by parliament remains a sham. it gives it absolutely no democratic legitimacy.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 11.50 a.m.)
mr president, the british presidency has presented its proposals for the financial perspective for 2007-13. the worst was to be expected. we weren't wrong. after nine months of work by the temporary committee on the financial perspectives, the european parliament had reached an acceptable compromise to ensure europe's ambitious and coherent future. on the other hand, tony blair is proposing deep cuts and putting the union project at risk. it is attacking the structural funds, rural development, youth, culture and making the financing of the globalisation adjustment fund quite risky. we must reach a mature position in the interests of european integration. let us put an end to the national egoism and the anachronistic advantages of certain member states. the united kingdom must reassess its contribution to the budget in a way that is not a cosmetic measure. europe is a common project, not a stock exchange. let us also use the borrowing to give us the means to succeed. it is about the european project and the necessary solidarity with our new partners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the report on the request for the defence of the immunity and privileges of my colleague, mr bruno gollnisch, will be debated later, i would like to raise a particularly topical point. last week the french prime minister, dominique de villepin, stated with force and conviction that the legislator does not have to fix truth in history. there is no official history in france, he said. a few days later, the head of state, jacques chirac, repeated the same words, saying: "in the republic, there is no official history, it is not the law to write history, the writing of history is the business of historians". what is the charge against bruno gollnisch from the french political and judicial authorities? the fact that i said exactly the same thing a few months ago, namely that it was up to historians to study the issues of the second world war, does not offend some of my french colleagues who have set themselves up as the thought police, even going so far as to exert unacceptable political pressure to have bruno gollnisch's immunity plea rejected. in these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, i urge you not to fall into the trap of adopting this report.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to appeal to the institutions of the union, whether the commission, parliament or the council, because the italian court of cassation - which is therefore a high judicial authority in that country - has just ruled, in a judgment following an attack by an italian on young colombian women, that the word 'dirty negro' was not a racist insult, but was simply a generic expression of antipathy. needless to say, this is particularly alarming. the previous speaker referred to football fields. the italian minister for institutional reforms, roberto calderoli, believes that migrants should go back to their desert to talk to camels and dance with monkeys in the jungle, a minister who sits on the council of ministers of the european union! unfortunately, there are many verbal lapses and we must not tolerate them. this is an additional act: a judicial institution clearly underestimates a racist offence; i think it's extremely serious for our history. i therefore hope that our institutions will react.
mr president, i just wanted to remind you that four weeks ago we were talking here about the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor who were locked up in libya. since then, the trial they were waiting for has been postponed until january 31. since then, we have learned that in 2005, as part of the fight against aids, the european union has sent over one million euros to children who had been infected at the hospital in benghazi. since then, we have learned that libya is waiting for even more money to make a move. since then, no permission has been granted to visit these women and this man in prison in libya. finally, four weeks have passed since then for this man and these women who have been accused, tortured and who have been waiting for seven years to be treated fairly, in accordance with human rights. mr president, until they are released, we will have to remind you of that.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. the question of whether or not mr bruno gollnisch's immunity is to be maintained is a sensitive one. i have decided not to shirk my responsibility to tell bruno gollnisch, publicly and frankly, why i will not defend his immunity. the temptation is great to take a position on the substance of what the national front member has said. the temptation is great to want only to remember the martyrdom of the jewish people, while ignoring the only debate to be held, that of the conditions for the application of parliamentary immunity. the temptation is great to refuse to maintain it, seeing in mr gollnisch only the representative of an ideology against which the european idea has built its project and which almost the whole of this house rejects. on the other hand, the temptation would be to ask for this maintenance in a corporatist reflex to ensure that a word cannot be used against any of us. i urge you not to give in to these temptations and not to turn a technical debate into a debate between historians. our assembly is not a court. diana wallis's report is well balanced. it reminds us that immunity is not meant to protect meps, but the integrity of the european parliament through its representatives and to allow them independence in the performance of their duties. in lyon, in the heart of the university where he teaches, far from his constituency in the north-east of france, bruno gollnisch was certainly not speaking as a member of the european parliament. bruno gollnisch lives dangerously, constantly on the edge of the razor. this political way of life is in fact characteristic of the french and german far right. mr gollnisch is far too cultured and far too intelligent to be unaware that french law might condemn his words. if he has to go to court to stand up for what he believes is right, he should not drag our parliamentary institution into a debate where it has no place. the request for the maintenance of immunity, which was made with your consent, mr gollnisch, is halfway between an appeal for help without any legal basis, since this procedure in no way threatens the exercise of your mandate, and an attempt, incomprehensible to me, to evade your responsibilities, as if you were finally panicking at the idea of what you have knowingly triggered and which you clearly no longer control. i have no hatred for you, nor do i wish to accompany you as a member of parliament in this ordeal which you have knowingly caused. you're on your own. it may not be too late for you to make a change, to make peace with france, europe, and our painful history. i wish you the best. the european parliament cannot do this for you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mrs wallis on the request for the defence of the immunity of mr bruno gollnisch is a real scandal, both in form and substance. it is a scandal because the rules of law and the established case law of our rules of procedure and of the committee on legal affairs have never been so misused and violated. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. it took no less than four draft reports, each with different conclusions and motivations, to produce the report which is before us today in plenary and which is not the one on which the members of the committee on legal affairs voted, because the reasons for the decision proposed by mrs wallis have since been changed. the argument put forward by the report in support of the decision not to defend the immunity and privileges of bruno gollnisch is that he did not exercise his freedom of expression in the exercise of his duties when he spoke at a press conference held at his political premises in lyon on 11 october 2004: what hypocrisy and what a lie! the written invitation to the press conference by bruno gollnisch mentioned, next to his name, his title of mep. most press reports have referred to his capacity as an mep. the subjects discussed by bruno gollnisch were also related to europe, from the question of turkey's accession to europe, the ratification process of the european constitutional treaty, and the rousso report on the political opinions of certain academics on the history of the second world war in europe. the constant case law of the committee on legal affairs on opinions delivered by members of the european parliament tends, in this case, to the systematic protection of immunity. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. but this was not the case with our colleague bruno gollnisch, who was thus undermining the independence and freedom of expression of all members. let there be no mistake: if this report were to be adopted in plenary, the right of expression of all members of the european parliament would be restricted and subject to arbitrariness. a new interpretation of the waiver of immunity for opinions expressed by the member in the exercise of his duties would be adopted; the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that we can finally decide on mr gollnisch's immunity, because this succession of postponements of our vote has gone on for too long. we have had ample time to assess the facts. i will not go into these specific facts here, but i want to stress that it is entirely right to support mrs wallis' report, which proposes to waive mr gollnisch's immunity for a number of reasons. first and foremost, mr gollnisch did not make the alleged statements as a member of the european parliament. the immunity enjoyed by every member of the european parliament is intended to protect freedom of expression in the exercise of his duties, which is not the case here. immunity is not irresponsibility, just as freedom of speech cannot justify the intolerable. the second reason is that in this case the values of the european union, which we meps are supposed to defend, have been flouted. far from these humanist values, far from them, mr gollnisch, a good pupil of jean-marie le pen, tried to match his master in provocation by the remarks he made at that conference. we must therefore condemn them strongly. finally, the third and final reason is that there is no fumus persecutionis in the argument put forward by mr gollnisch. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. it is a little short in the face of the extremely shocking words he uttered with full awareness - i am sure - of the blows to our democracy.
mr president, rule 7 says i cannot intervene in the debate. i do not intend to intervene in the debate, but article 7 does allow me to correct an inaccurate fact. the third subparagraph of article 7 (8) allows me to intervene on the basis of article 145. and section 145 gives me three minutes for a personal matter. if i may, mr president, and without intervening in the debate which is already in progress, i would like to speak for three minutes on the basis of rule 145, as provided for in rule 7, to explain a personal accusation. i therefore do not speak on the substance of the debate but simply on facts which have been given to me by some of the speakers. mrs bachelot thought she could say, and it is a common opinion, that i had spoken in the heart of the university. that's not true at all. the remarks which i have been accused of making were made at a press conference held as part of my political duties, during which i was answering questions from journalists, as another speaker, mrs schenardi, said, which is not seriously disputed. if i'm not allowed to make those answers, then journalists should not be allowed to ask questions about the history of world war ii. it seems to me quite clear and i did not say this as an academic, even though the academic authorities, on the orders of the government, tried to undermine my presumption of innocence and were condemned by the council of state, our supreme court. secondly, mrs berger implied that i had denied the existence of the concentration camps, and in particular that of mauthausen. mrs. berger, i have never denied the existence of the concentration camps and certainly not that of mauthausen. the existence of the gas chambers at mauthausen was denied by mr lanzmann, the director of the film "shoah", and not by me, who, on the contrary, loudly affirmed their existence. i think that these two points were extremely important, mr president. as for the commission's delay and possible delay, i have not personally played any part in this case. i would point out, as my colleague has said, that the president of the french republic, mr chirac, has just said that there can be no official truth in history. i wonder how anyone can reproach me for the remarks which have just been repeated by the head of the state, the head of the judiciary, and justify my prosecution on the basis of a communist law, the gayssot law, which mr toubon called a stalinist law when it was adopted. it'll be interesting to see what mr. toubon has to say about my immunity. that is simply what i had to say to this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been calling for a ban on cadmium and a limitation on the use of this heavy material since 1988. in every piece of legislation, for example on end-of-life vehicles or electrical and electronic products, parliament has stressed a simple principle: the use of cadmium must be banned and it must remain where there is no alternative. this is the principle of substitution from the outset, the principle which underlies the reach directive proposal which we mobilised some time ago. as in other sectors, the reach directive excludes batteries, on the grounds that a proper directive must precisely allow parliament's action to be calibrated. i therefore strongly urge that we apply the principle of substitution to cadmium batteries. mr blokland has spoken of the difficulties he has had in making an ambitious point of view prevail and his willingness to compromise is to be commended. we support it. nevertheless, it seems to me that our parliament should be able to accept a simple principle. if there is a technology on the market which offers an alternative to nickel-cadmium batteries or to batteries containing cadmium - whether portable batteries or industrial batteries, for that matter - then we must ban cadmium. mr blokland tried to list what was already available on the market. there are emerging technologies, including nickel-zinc technology for industrial batteries. i therefore propose that you accept amendment no 4 by the socialist group in the european parliament, which proposes that if an alternative technology for industrial batteries appears on the market, a revision of the directive should be initiated. this seems to me to be the minimum minimum to be true to environmental ambition and, above all, to the will to promote technological innovation in the european union.
mr president, i find it attractive to ban nickel-cadmium batteries outright at first sight, but a more detailed analysis leads me to advocate genuine exemptions for the industrial use of these batteries. in particular, the application of accumulators is found in the security and transport sectors, for example aircraft and trains. these batteries are sought after for their reliability to operate under critical conditions, making it difficult to introduce replacement products. the regulations are already very strict. the risks associated with the end of life of these types of batteries are controlled, in particular by ensuring that producers take charge of collection and recycling. i would draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the definitions adopted by the committee on the environment, which give priority to the physical characteristics of the battery over the nature of its use. certain batteries would then de facto fall under the ban, such as those used in respiratory assistance systems for intervention in toxic atmospheres, individual or collective lamps in the mining sector, etc.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, with this report we are in the first phase of the european parliament's return to this directive on investment services, now renamed the mifid directive. there is a procedural question here: you know the conditions under which the european parliament accepted the lamfalussy procedure. there is a fundamental question: under what conditions will the principles we have established at level 1 be respected by the measures being prepared at level 2? something tells me that for the first time the european parliament will have the opportunity to exercise its rights fully when considering the level 2 measures of this directive, which is why we attach great importance in this text to recalling the conditions under which the european parliament can, through the sunset clause (or suspension clause) and the call back (or right of evocation), intervene again after the level 2 measures. i think we are right to do so because, when we observe the debate as it is taking place, there is clearly, after the adoption of the measures by the european parliament, a legal creativity which prompts us to be vigilant. as regards the timetable, we note that what was initially a single deadline has become a deadline for transposition and a deadline for effective application. in other areas, i believe that the overall balance of this directive between openness to competition and transparency is a sufficiently serious matter for the european parliament to have all the means necessary to examine, under credible conditions, the proposals that will be made at level 2 by the commission. that is why, commissioner, i hope that i can take advantage of your openness to this parliament and your willingness to dialogue with it, so that, when this directive, which is a directive amending the calendar, is adopted, we can fully reaffirm the rights of parliament in a procedure in which, quite frankly, its intervention has always been an intervention on principles and has never led to an extension of the time limits, while we can well imagine the difficulties involved in intervening at other levels on such a complex subject. so, quite frankly, commissioner, i can assure you that parliament will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and i am glad that you can support them under these conditions.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mild climate, the beautiful scenery, the attractive prices and the warm welcome of the people have for years encouraged thousands of europeans to become landlords in the valencia region of spain. to cope with the rapidly growing demand and to combat speculation, the autonomous government of valencia passed an urbanisation law in 1994, the lrau. it is precisely against the application of this law that thousands of petitions are being sent to the european parliament. the petitioners complain about what they believe is an unfair challenge to their property rights due to urban development. criticism is directed both at the substance - the legal, economic and environmental legitimacy of such a project - and at the form - lack of information, transparency, too short a time limit for appeal and too low a compensation amount. they feel helpless in the face of an otherwise very complex situation, since - it should be remembered - the legal and political responsibility in this case is shared between the spanish government, as regards the land law, the autonomous community of valencia, as regards the local legislation on town planning rules, and the municipalities, which, relying on both spanish and regional legislation, implement the programmes they consider legitimate. in order to be better informed of the situation on the ground, the committee on petitions sent a delegation twice, in 2004 and 2005, to inquire about all the parties concerned. as rapporteur, i was part of the second delegation and was very impressed by the large number of petitioners and touched by their speech but also by their confidence in the european response. i also appreciated the attention of the authorities in valencia and their willingness to cooperate. the community of valencia, aware of the problems, is also working on a new law, the luv, which will take into account the demands raised by the petitioners. in the interest of openness, the valencian government has invited the european parliament to make any suggestions it considers necessary. europe is often accused of being far from its citizens, and we have here the opportunity to demonstrate the opposite: the european parliament, through its committee on petitions, is listening to the citizen. the problem is that we cannot go beyond our competence, because we must avoid creating expectations among the citizens that can only be disappointed. as regards the facts and community competence, we therefore ask the european commission to continue to ensure that the tendering procedure is respected and to monitor any breaches of the environmental directives. it has also begun to meet our expectations by opening infringement proceedings against the kingdom of spain on 21 march for failure to comply with the directive on public procurement. we urge the regional government and municipalities to provide all those affected by the lrau with assistance to consider a possible correction and compensation process. we call for the environmental issue, which is crucial for europe's future, to be taken into account in all projects. i thank my colleagues who have been passionate about this subject and who have enriched my initial report, but i remind them that we can only act within the limits of our community competence and that our margin of manoeuvre is narrow. we all react and have reacted according to our temperament and our commitments. some people tend to do a lot, others not enough, i have tried to adopt a middle-of-the-road attitude and it is in this spirit that the alde group will table some amendments designed solely to refocus our action. i am tempted to tell the european citizens concerned by this lrau that we have heard them, that we deplore the situation and that we are not here to judge, but to try to put pressure on them so that they are all heard, respected and that finally a just and fair solution is found. i hope that this report will be successful, that the situation will finally be fair for all and that the committee on petitions will once again prove that we are an important link in the relationship between the citizen and the european parliament.
mr president, i hope that this parliament, by voting for the excellent report by our colleague mr bersani, will give you, commissioner, a strong support for the debate before you, whether in the council or within the college of commissioners itself. i am aware of the progress made since this subject has been on the table and i know that you are considering enhanced cooperation procedures. let us hope that we do not have to go to that. but we think that the way you're approaching this issue and your willingness to really improve is a very positive sign for us. my second observation is that taxation can affect the internal market and all those who here call on us all day long to make the internal market work better should be concerned that excessive tax competition fundamentally affects the functioning of the internal market, particularly in its crossborder effects. in a way, this report presents us with a paradox. i hope that we will reach an agreement on the bersani report. yet, he covers up differences of opinion. whether we are in favour of tax competition or of harmonizing rates, we need this basic harmonization. so let us take this first step together, aware that - as we have seen in the hearings of experts - much remains to be done in terms of rates and that reasoning in terms of a range does not prohibit a certain amount of competition. this simply creates healthy and viable conditions for the internal market, in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
member of the commission. mr president, the european union can be proud of its achievements in the field of non-discrimination, which place it amongst the most advanced regions in the world in this respect. in 2000, we adopted two key directives: one which outlaws racial discrimination, and another that bans direct and indirect discrimination in employment on the grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. however, legislation alone is not enough to counter discrimination effectively. many member states are falling behind with their transposition schedules, and where national legislation complies with the european directives, it is unfamiliar to the general public and not properly implemented. the commission has therefore proposed, inter alia, to declare 2007 the european year of equal opportunities for all. it is intended to make the public aware of the benefits of a just society that offers everybody the same opportunities, irrespective of sex, ethnic or racial origin, religion or belief, capacity, age or sexual orientation. it will highlight the benefits of diversity as a source of social and economic vitality, which europe must acknowledge and make use of. this diversity enriches the social fabric of europe and is a vital component of its economic prosperity. the discussions and activities during the year will be organised around three main topics. firstly, the right to equality and protection against discrimination. a key element will be to make the general public aware of the fact that equal treatment does not necessarily mean identical treatment, but that, sometimes, different treatment is required in different situations. secondly, recognition of the positive contribution that everybody, whatever their personal characteristics, makes to society. the aim will be to make the public aware of the rewards and advantages accruing in europe through diversity. thirdly, better representation in society of disadvantaged groups: a debate will be initiated on ways to rectify the underrepresentation and underparticipation of certain groups in society. fourthly, respect and tolerance vis-à-vis and among the various communities that make up european society. civil society and the social partners will be fully involved in implementing the european year. one of the key principles of implementing the year will be that activities will be decentralised at member state level. to get this message across effectively, the year must be implemented as closely as possible to the citizens. finally, it must be ensured that, during the year and in all the member states, equal importance is attached to all the grounds for discrimination set out under article 13 of the treaty, namely discrimination based on sex, ethnic or racial origin, religion or beliefs, disability, age or sexual orientation.
the rapporteur. mr president, there are no institutional barriers between one group and another, and there is nothing to prevent anyone from proving their worth and receiving the prize. specific systems, in the form of examinations or competitions, with diplomas, have been set up to ensure the ability of each individual. access to the most important functions is in principle open to all, without distinction. however, men are not always equal in law. at least, equal opportunities do not seem to be achieved. despite some examples of spectacular social advancement, which are claimed with all the more complacency because they are more exceptional, the chances of success are not equally distributed among all, and if the social organization does not allow everyone to manifest his abilities, it fosters serious germs of frustration and tension. neither efficiency nor justice are involved in this situation. if this is the case, nearly two centuries after the declaration of human rights was adopted, it is not hard to understand why. should we consider that we have no way out? are democratic principles a mirage, or an ideal, that moves further away as we get closer to them? we reject that approach. it is true that inequalities tend to pile up. individuals from modest families are on average less likely to achieve a high level of education. those with a low level of education are less likely to achieve high social status or to pursue a well-paid profession. the number of women in senior positions, whatever they may be, is still very limited, if not insignificant. the predominance remains, as a rule, the prerogative of men. disabled people still do not have the right to a fair place in our societies. homosexuals are still too often discriminated against and some still consider this fact to be normal. the colour of their skin, their ethnic origin, leaves many men, women and children stranded on the roadside. do we have the right to accommodate ourselves to this situation? is it right to consider that nothing can be done to bring reality closer to the democratic ideal? the obstacles seem to be great, inherent in the social organization itself. but it's not by denying them that we're going to overcome them. we must face the truth and expose it. thus, discrimination often leads to unskilled and unstable jobs, which are almost always accompanied by low pay and, consequently, a low standard of living. people who suffer from them have great difficulty in accessing decent housing and health care. they have virtually no chance of promotion through continuing vocational training and their leisure time will be reduced to a minimum. in these circumstances, their children's education is mortgaged from the start. they are deprived of the material, social and emotional conditions which make it possible to build a life project. and there is a great risk that they will end up in the same situation as their parents. in a word, disability calls for disability. if you experience the effects of social inequality in one way, you are likely to experience it in other ways. this phenomenon of cumulative disability, which is intuitively perceptible, has, however, so far been little studied. i would therefore like to ask the council and the commission to make a strong commitment to the fight against all forms of discrimination in all the countries of the union, particularly in the context of the year of equal opportunities. we ask you for that strong commitment, commissioner. we heard what you said earlier. we are pleased with this, but you will understand that we will be very vigilant about the application, and i will conclude by recalling that on 28 august 1963, in washington, in his famous incantation speech i have a dream, martin luther king expressed with emotion the hope, the dream of a world of freedom and justice for all. i have a dream, he said, that my four children will belong to a nation where they will be judged not by the color of their skin, but by their qualities. let us dream together that by the end of the decade we will finally have a union without discrimination, a union which gives every child a chance. let's have a dream together, commissioner.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank martine roure for her work on this report. the european union is committed to promoting fundamental rights and equal opportunities for all. we have one of the most comprehensive anti-discrimination laws in the world. but there is a question. are our fellow citizens aware of the european directives aimed at combating discrimination? do they know that all member states are obliged to transpose them into their legislation? unfortunately, i think the answer is no. that is why the initiative to launch the european year of equal opportunities is very constructive. a media event of this magnitude is a good tool for raising awareness and providing information. equal opportunities is a policy of specific measures to restore equitable access to rights, services and goods for those who are disadvantaged. for equality to be a reality, we must fight against all discrimination. every day men and women are discriminated against in their access to employment and services, for reasons such as their sex, their origin and their religion. this is unacceptable, we cannot tolerate these practices any longer. the actions that the union will support in 2007 and the awareness and demonstration campaigns are moving in the right direction. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules. all member states without exception must be involved. full enforcement of anti-discrimination legislation therefore remains a priority. it is regrettable that some states have been condemned for failing to transpose european directives in this area correctly. tomorrow, our parliament must send a strong signal to our fellow citizens by adopting this report by a large majority. the fight against discrimination is neither a left-wing fight nor a right-wing fight. it is a fight of men and women of conviction who are striving towards the same goal: to fight for respect for human rights and, in particular, against all forms of discrimination.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all those who have taken part in our work today, first of all our main rapporteurs, gianni pittella and valdis dombrovskis, but also reimer böge and salvador garriga, and the entire cobu led by mr lewandowski, and i do not want to forget our administrators and assistants. we are now arriving at a budget which is less than we had hoped for, but which was established legally and which respects the current financial perspective, namely 1.09% of commitment appropriations. this is important and exceeds the results obtained last year. we can also use the flexibility instrument to fulfil the promises made by the council. however, we will remember the difficulties we have had in obtaining this opportunity when we start the next negotiations. furthermore, all margins were respected. in short, we are achieving a modest and reasonable budget which will not undermine the revenue provided by the member states. it respects the priorities we have set and, thanks to the opening up of several policies decided jointly, it allows us above all to anticipate the lisbon strategy and to maintain the bulk of external aid, the aid to the poorest countries which we want. but i would like to return to some of the points which are very important to us in the implementation of the budget. today the budget we are presenting has a political meaning. however, it is up to the commission to ensure that this political sense is maintained with the implementation of the budget. it is obvious that we should avoid having surpluses next year. if the budget lines continue to be unimplemented, the political will of the european parliament as the budgetary authority may be blunted. commissioner, we do not want to see any more returns of two billion euros from any fund. we have given you the means to do it. if you have any difficulties, please let us know in due course. finally, i would like to say to the council that we do indeed have a correct budget for 2006, agreed after many difficulties. we are in this situation because the promises made by the council are often not financed and because you committed yourself, more than two years ago, to implementing a security policy information system. we are one of the two arms of the budgetary authority and we find it unworthy that the european institutions, and in particular the council, seem to ignore it. cobu approved his willingness and his wisdom to make strong political choices for this 2006 budget. we shall have the same concern for the next financial perspective. we have today the only legal proposal: the vote of 8 june, which was largely adopted by our parliament. we have been waiting for a real proposal from the council ever since. when it comes, we'll be ready. ready to work and negotiate, given our years of shared experience. the committee on budgets will work towards a budget that serves the people. it will adopt a similar approach in the negotiations on the financial perspective and parliament will support it in order to give the european union a budgetary framework which will finance the union's competences to develop quality jobs and protect the environment. we want this to be achieved in the context of real solidarity between the peoples of europe, but also with the poorest of the poor. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the intergovernmental agreement on the financial perspective to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. our parliament wants to represent the european people. he wants us to be united in diversity.
i will just clarify what you said about mr onesta, because i am also a member of the bureau. the european parliament is obviously not a real estate speculator, but it does its best to be a good steward of the money entrusted to it. so i think that a man as committed to budgetary rigor as you are should approve of buying under proper conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank our colleagues giovanni pittella and valdis dombrovskis and anne jensen for the enormous amount of work they have done during this long procedure. this budget, although imperfect, is in my view relatively satisfactory and i am pleased that the level of payment appropriations has been raised to eur 112 billion, or 1.01% of gni, and that our operating expenditure has been kept in check and relatively stable. as the permanent rapporteur for the structural funds in the committee on budgets, i could have hoped, however, that the council would allocate more appropriations to all these financial instruments which remain the basis of our policies to reduce territorial disparities. finally, i am, like many of our colleagues, looking forward to the outcome of the european council negotiations and i would like to stress that parliament's positions should be kept in mind during these negotiations. today, when we need europe most, it is essential that the member states provide the european union with real financial means. we need europe to be able to pursue an ambitious economic policy for its 450 million inhabitants. we need europe to carry out a common foreign and security policy that is distinct from the continental empires around the world. in conclusion, contrary to the opinion expressed by some of our colleagues on the subject of brainwashing, we need europe more than ever to build a project of society which unites us around common values. that's my dream, and i hope it's yours too.
the president of the council informed me that he had to leave the debate on the way. i was told of this, but i am surprised that the council does not wish to answer such an important question before parliament, but i take note of it.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. (the sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. and resumed at 11.15 a.m.)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, the year ahead will be crucial in the face of a europe without modern institutions and without budgetary prospects, a europe in crisis in the face of citizens who increasingly doubt it and who unfortunately made this known to us last spring. we must therefore rise to the challenge - the challenge of globalisation, the challenge of climate change, the energy challenge, the demographic challenge - in order to meet the expectations of the european peoples and to make them understand that europe is not a nebula with which they have nothing to do. in this context, the epp-ed proposes concrete guidelines for 2006, which were sorely lacking in your programme, madam commissioner, particularly in terms of translating the objectives of the lisbon strategy into action. to improve european competitiveness, we will ensure that all forms of bureaucracy are reduced and all superfluous legislation is abolished. in this area, it is important to involve the european parliament more and to improve the ex post evaluation of the measures adopted. the epp also insists on the completion of the internal market, whose optimal functioning is crucial for all our businesses, for all our jobs and for our consumers. our economy must be able to rely on the rapid implementation of the major transeuropean transport networks, whose financing must be covered by the european budget, but also by public-private partnerships, which are also at the heart of our ambition for research, an ambition that cannot be satisfied with fine words. the budget for the new framework programme for research and innovation will be an indicator. we will be demanding on the funds available and how they are used. this research is the key to our jobs of tomorrow. the epp will also be very attentive to the external borders of the european union, commissioner. we ask you to start in 2006 to think seriously about the absorption capacity of the union and to discuss this matter openly with parliament. this is a very important question for our citizens who ask us every day about this, as they ask us about the fight against illegal immigration or the strengthening of border control capacities. to do this, we must make greater use of biometric data and ensure better cooperation between computer systems, which is also essential in the fight against terrorism, the fight against crime and cybersecurity. we have a powerful tool europol ; it is time to give it a community legal basis. finally, the european union is also expected to add value in other areas, such as health. we look forward to concrete action in the fight against obesity, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer and mental illness. the epp also wants a proposal for patient mobility and information. the european union also has a duty to look after education. we regret your lack of ambition, particularly in improving language learning and developing our university centres. as you know, madam commissioner, the achievement of our objectives and the daily added value of europe are conditioned by two fundamental requirements. on the one hand, the institutional rules governing the functioning of the european union: you know our attachment to the constitutional treaty; it is urgent that we have a strong initiative to resume the debate. the second is the financial perspective: a budget that is fair to everyone's expectations, a strong budget for a strong europe and not a few coins that the council has carelessly put on the table as a despicable tip.
in writing. "equal opportunities for all: towards a just society". who would dare to speak against such a report? it should even be the subject of a full unanimity with a similar title. the problem is that in the field of combating discrimination and equal opportunities, we are in a constant state of competition. does this report really bring anything new out of the usual litany of concepts and slogans of egalitarian and non-discriminatory good thinking? the rapporteur proposes that the european year of equal opportunities for all be established in 2007, which would be a 'real tool for raising awareness and informing european public opinion. what a novelty ! once again, equality is provided for by coercion, by the introduction of a system of quotas and positive discrimination. we cannot accept that, because it is the very negation of equal opportunities and equal treatment. we are also against the possibility of sanctions by the european union in the event of a member state's failure to comply with the provisions of a community directive. this is a matter of national competence and sovereignty in criminal matters, and it cannot be restricted or delegated.
in writing. the proposed procedure reveals significant legal shortcomings. the procedure is divided into two stages: 1. the first, after an application has been made, the court draws up a european order for payment which is served on the debtor and the latter has a period of three weeks in which to lodge a claim. 2. the secondly, if no claim is made, a european order for payment is issued. the authors justify this double relaxation by the risk that an irreversible security would have to be issued from the outset. it would then seem more appropriate, in order to simplify the procedure and to guarantee the rights of the debtor, to maintain only one stage, that is to say to provide for the issuing of the european order for payment from the outset and to make it enforceable. in return, the opposition period should be extended and run only when the debtor has actually been affected by the notification. that is why we reject amendment no 12, which allows a person to be sentenced without being informed of the decision. finally, the choice between the notary's certificate and the postal delivery as proposed in amendment no 20 must not exist. the act of the bailiff must be imposed in view of the failures of the post office in some countries, such as france.
mr president, parliamentary immunity is intended to protect the freedom of expression of members of parliament. therefore, according to the consistent case law of the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, it is established as a fundamental principle that when the acts of which a member is accused are part of his political activity or are directly related to it, immunity is not waived. this includes, according to the same case law, the expression of opinions, deemed to be political activity, which are expressed at demonstrations, public meetings, in political publications, in the press, in a book, on television, and even in court. in the case of mr gollnisch, there is no doubt that this well-established case law has been circumvented in a partisan way in this house. bruno gollnisch is legally wrong because he is a political minority. your conception of law is one of variable geometry. what are you doing in this place of democratic and legal values and principles? the fact that the parliamentary immunity of our colleague bruno gollnisch has not been defended today means that this house is unworthy of the principles it embodies, unworthy and unjust!
mr president, the majority of this parliament has just decided, for political reasons, not to defend my immunity. i am pleased to note, however, that my defence was shared by many colleagues who are not members of my political group, especially since all the objections contained in mrs wallis's draft report have been removed, as the majority of the committee has demanded, probably to ease her conscience. the reason for this decision is absurd and unusual: i would have spoken outside the framework of my parliamentary activities, which is not true! but in the present political circumstances, the fact that i have gotten all the passages removed that could be hostile to me in substance is a half-victory. since hypocrisy is the tribute that vice pays to virtue, i regard the procedural artifice used by my political opponents as proof of their embarrassment - the word is weak - on the merits of the case. the fact remains that all this is happening at the very moment when many voices, including those of mr de villepin, mr chirac and... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, this report concluding that the immunity of our colleague, bruno gollnisch, was not upheld has ignored all the general principles relating to privileges and immunities and the consistent case law of the relevant committees. he also launched a genuine witchcraft trial, thus conveying the position of the french judicial and political authorities, because there is nothing illegitimate about the remarks made by mr gollnisch at a press conference on the second world war. they were taken out of context in a way that was abusive and scandalous. in fact, if the same words had been spoken by someone else, they would not have caused a stir, they would not even have been taken up. the proof of this was recently provided by jacques chirac, the french head of state. the whole thing, mr president, seems to be a political manipulation, the sole purpose of which is to remove an innocent man from the political scene.
in writing. bruno gollnisch made statements at a press conference on 11 october 2004 which cast doubt on the existence of the gas chambers. these crimes are historical facts. denying or disputing it is a crime. and it is up to the french judiciary to decide, in accordance with the gayssot law which prohibits the public expression of a speech that challenges the existence of crimes against humanity. of course, freedom of speech must be guaranteed for a member of parliament. but the issue in this vote is to put a man, a university professor, in charge. that is why i shall vote in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of bruno gollnisch. for the vast majority of meps, this vote sends a message: denialism has no place in the europe of 'never again'.
in writing. strangely enough, a fundamental point in the case of our colleague bruno gollnisch, which was present in the first three versions of mrs wallis' report, has disappeared in the last one. this is the fumus persecutionis. it is the presumption that the criminal action is inspired by the intention to harm the political activity of the member. the european parliament has a principle that immunity is not waived when there is a suspicion that the criminal action is motivated by the intention to harm the political activity of the member. however, the evidence of this fumus persecutionis is abundant in this series. this is not a matter of mere conjecture. the intrusion of political power is evident in the person of the then minister of justice, mr perben, who is a direct political opponent of mr gollnisch, since he is a declared candidate in the municipal elections in lyon. he will personally order the prosecution, even though the investigation had cleared mr. gollnisch. the public prosecutor of lyon acknowledged this in a statement published by the press at the time. it is therefore not clear why the rapporteur has excluded this fumus persecutionis. however, it is clear from the facts and circumstances of this case that the measures taken by the judicial authorities are intended to impede the political activity of this member of parliament.
the agenda calls for the report by mr alexander nuno alvaro, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the retention of data processed in the course of the provision of publicly available electronic communications services and amending directive 2002/58/ec (com (2005) 0438 - c6-0293/2005 - 2005/0182 (cod)) (a6-0365/2005).
i would point out for all practical purposes that everything you say today, however, is engraved forever, is retained forever, since everything is filmed, everything is recorded.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, we tried to defuse the debate, but it was extremely difficult. i think we need to be clear and tell the truth. in the area of data retention, a directive is needed because all traffic data is already retained and used by law enforcement authorities in the vast majority of member states. that is the truth, and that is why it is urgent to regulate common practices in order to ensure better protection for european citizens. the debate on this report has been very difficult. i am therefore happy and proud that my group can support the compromise proposed by the council, not because we are prepared to accept everything, but on the contrary because my group has been able to stand firm throughout the negotiations in order to achieve better protection for citizens. the limitation of the scope of the directive to serious crimes, to the protection of data security, to access to data, or to the use of criminal sanctions for their misuse, is a matter of course! we made our demands and we did not give in. it is a compromise, of course, and we would also have liked to go further. that is why we tabled an amendment to the legislative resolution providing that, in the third pillar, access will be regulated in the framework decision on data protection. i myself am the rapporteur for this framework decision and i will submit my draft report to the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs at the beginning of 2006. we consider this to be a reasonable compromise which strikes a balance between the protection of fundamental rights and the fight against serious crime and terrorism. finally, an agreement at first reading and in the framework of codecision is a victory for the european parliament. our institution has proved itself to be sufficiently mature, and we can be proud of this result. i would remind you that we initially rejected the framework decision on data retention because it prohibited any democratic debate. all the matters in this same field - i repeat - will be dealt with in co-decision with parliament, and in particular - i emphasize this - the revision of this directive, which will certainly be done, because technologies are changing rapidly. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, it is difficult to strike a balance between the protection of privacy and the retention of personal data in response to the terrorist threat, given the temptation to turn exceptional measures into general rules in our states. the compromise reached with the european parliament is a positive step, but it must not lose sight of the objective of having a directive which provides the same legal framework and guarantees in all countries for all citizens. i would like to emphasize the recommendations of the committee on industry, research and energy concerning enterprises. they must not become a tool for governments to monitor citizens, nor be an obstacle to their work, and their cooperation must be accompanied by strict guarantees, including full reimbursement of over-cost. finally, it is essential that the scheme is best adapted to the functioning of the web and does not hinder the development of the internet or access to icts in the union. both are bound to freedom.
for the greens/efa group madam president, like my colleagues, i am pleased that we are holding this debate today on the annual report on human rights. i particularly welcome a new chapter on the analysis of the effectiveness of the european union's instruments and initiatives. this is precisely the angle which the european parliament has chosen to develop, with the full complicity of the political groups, its report for this year, which shows that in the coming years we will finally be able to develop together a real joint report between the commission, the council and the european parliament. to achieve this, it is important that information flows continuously between our institutions. i would like to emphasize, for example, the council conclusions of 12 december, which tell us that the council - we had no doubt about it - had launched active lobbying campaigns under the auspices of the heads of mission in third countries, on behalf of human rights defenders. it is very useful for members to know who, when and how the council and the ambassadors in third countries are supporting them under the guidelines for the protection of human rights defenders. another example is the council's development of fact sheets which assess the human rights situation in the various countries. here too, it would be necessary for the council to communicate them to parliament so that the various delegations and committees can refer to them in their daily work. another example, i read in this report that for the first time chinese members of parliament had participated in the structured dialogue on human rights between the union and china. in these circumstances, i cannot understand why the members of parliament themselves are not involved in this dialogue, and the members of parliament are asking for all members to be involved in all dialogues, whatever their structures. finally, as regards the commission, we are aware of the shortcomings of the european initiative for democracy and human rights, but i must tell you, madam commissioner, that i have the strongest reservations and concerns about the document currently being examined by the european commission for the implementation of the horizontal programme for human rights. this document does not meet the expectations of the european parliament, nor of the ngos, as you will see... (the president withdrew the speaker)
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i shall begin by thanking the european parliament for proposing this timely debate on tunisia. i would like to record our appreciation of tunisia’s recent hosting of the united nations world summit on the information society from 16 to 18 november. we welcome the summit’s agreement to the tunis commitment and the tunis agenda for the information society, an important contribution to the global effort needed to bridge what is known as the digital divide. at the same time, it is right for us to consider more generally the issues of human rights and freedom of the press in tunisia. the council shares the concerns of members of this house about the human rights situation in tunisia and is well aware of the shortcomings in tunisia’s performance, particularly with respect to acts of intimidation and harassment by the authorities against civil society and human rights activists. the meeting convened on thursday, 1 december, involving meps, certain committees and other eu institutions involved in the summit, specifically to discuss human rights concerns in tunisia, further highlighted the importance of these issues. human rights is an essential element in the eu’s relationship with tunisia, as set out in the eu-tunisia association agreement, which came into force on 1 march 1998, and the european neighbourhood policy action plan which came into force on 4 july this year. under its action plan, tunisia has signed up to commitments in the area of democracy, good governance and human rights. implementing these commitments will be an essential element in developing eu-tunisia relations. they include, for example, the establishment of an eu-tunisia subcommittee on human rights. to this end we continue to urge the tunisians to establish and hold a first session of a human rights subcommittee as soon as possible. in addition to this, the euromed tenth anniversary summit on 27 and 28 november in barcelona represented an important opportunity to help the eu’s mediterranean partners, including tunisia, to address the challenges of the 21st century, including in relation to good governance. at the euromed summit, leaders endorsed an outcome-oriented five-year work plan. that plan included the creation of a governance facility to help those countries that make progress on good governance, allowing them access to additional funds to spend on their priorities. tunisia is a state party to the six core united nations human rights treaties. tunisia scores well on most socio-economic indexes of multilateral institutions, and social and economic rights are recognised and protected. tunisia plays an active role within international human rights institutions and was elected to the united nations commission on human rights in april 2004. tunisia has not yet, however, signed the rome statute of the international criminal court. the eu welcomes tunisia’s record of promoting reform in the arab world, notably on the position of women and the right to education. however, the eu remains concerned about the human rights situation in tunisia, particularly in relation to freedom of expression and assembly and the independence of the judiciary. this debate has raised in particular the issue of the freedom of the press in tunisia. all books and publications, with the exception of newspapers, are still subject to censorship. until may 2005, all newspapers had to clear articles with the ministry of the interior in advance of publication. whilst this is no longer the case, we remain concerned that the fear of reprisals appears to have resulted in some self-censorship, as no newspaper offers any political criticism or opinion on domestic issues contrary to the government’s view. access to foreign television, however, is common, as most tunisian households have access to satellite television. as i already made clear, the eu welcomes the agreement on the tunis commitment and the tunis agenda for the information society reached at the world summit on the information society in tunis. the eu looks forward to working with all stakeholders to ensure the full and effective implementation of both stages of the summit process, both on substance and on follow-up. a number of incidents involving freedom of expression and freedom of assembly were reported in the run-up to and during the summit itself. the tunisian human rights league, the oldest human rights body in tunisia, claimed police harassment of its activists and says that it has been prevented from functioning properly. a court decision in september 2005 postponed its congress. the eu consequently made representations to the tunisian authorities and issued a statement reminding the tunisians of the eu’s expectations of its human rights responsibilities. during the summit itself, the eu troika made representations to the tunisian authorities following an incident at the goethe institute, where ngos were prevented from meeting to discuss plans for an alternative ‘citizens’ summit’. the eu is also concerned about a number of other incidents involving freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, also reported during the summit. these include the disruption of the activities of a belgian tv crew, as well as the disruption of the european commission workshop for meps to meet members of civil society in the summit’s conference centre. tunisia’s constitution provides for freedom of association, but within certain defined limits. the law provides for freedom of assembly, as long as a permit is obtained from the minister of interior. however, some ngos experience difficulties in renting space and the control of funding. a number of associations have applied for legal status and have been refused, for example the national council for liberties in tunisia. ngos also report that internet access is routinely blocked and e-mails addressed to certain e-mail accounts never reach the intended recipient. during the presidential campaign of october 2004, the electoral code prohibited tunisians from discussing politics in the international press, and opposition parties were given little opportunity to campaign. whilst recognising that the election law safeguards female representation in parliament as well as the representation of minority views, we noted that the overall process leading to the elections did not provide a level playing field for contenders. we therefore encourage the tunisian authorities to continue to improve the framework for elections and to take the necessary steps to ensure that the next elections fully meet international standards. the eu is also concerned by reports from ngos, including amnesty international, about prison conditions in tunisia. these reports state that overcrowding in prisons and discriminatory treatment of political prisoners continue as well as a lack of basic medical care, poor hygiene, torture and ill-treatment. we therefore welcome the fact that since june 2005 tunisia’s authorities have allowed the international committee of the red cross access to prisons. earlier this year, the tunisian authorities announced their intention to allow human rights watch representatives access to prisons in a similar way to that of the international committee of the red cross, although no timeframe was specified. the minister for justice and human rights also announced that the practice of detaining prisoners in solitary confinement beyond 10 days, the maximum allowed under the constitution, would cease. the eu welcomes these announcements and hopes that both undertakings will be put into practice. i should also like to say a few words about the judiciary in tunisia. under its constitution, it is independent. however, amnesty international and others report that the authorities interfere in the judicial process. the trial in april 2005 of a lawyer and member of the national council for civil liberties in tunisia, mohamed abou, who wrote an article criticising tunisia’s president ben ali, seems to support this contention. the tunisian magistrates’ association has complained of increased intimidation by the government after its board issued a communiqué criticising the attack on abou. the public prosecutor closed the tunisian magistrates’ association’s office in august. a law passed on 12 august 2005 making provision for the statute of magistrates does not take into consideration earlier calls by the tunisian magistrates’ association concerning terms and conditions of service and would appear to weaken its position. we also note that despite several requests to visit, the united nations special rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers has yet to receive an invitation from the tunisian government. the eu wishes to work with tunisia to support the modernisation of its judiciary. the eu has provided money through meda to fund a project that will support this work and hopes to see progress on this. i am sure that the commission will want to say something about this. in conclusion, the eu welcomes the agreements reached at the world summit on the information society as an important contribution to the global effort to bridge the digital divide. in terms of the eu’s relationship with tunisia itself, we wish to see tunisia maintain and develop its security and prosperity. we regret the serious restrictions on freedom of expression and association and the incidents which occurred prior to and during the world summit on the information society. the council should like to assure honourable members that the eu will continue to express its concern over specific human rights violations and to impress on the tunisian authorities the need for full respect for human rights and democratic principles. it is now time for us to look forward to the implementation by the tunisian authorities of the commitments made by president ben ali on democracy, good governance and human rights set out in the european neighbourhood policy action plan. implementation of these commitments will be an essential element in developing eu-tunisia relations.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is very concerned about the situation of human rights and freedom of expression in tunisia. what brings me to parliament today is a series of incidents that occurred at the recent world summit on the information society in tunis, an event in which both members of parliament and the commission were present. i must admit that i refer to those incidents with great regret, since we have to recognise that the host country made an enormous effort in organising the summit, which itself brought about a very positive outcome for the eu in the important field of the future of internet governance. the summit outcome is a success for the eu and it bears the ‘made in europe’ stamp. the active participation of the commission and the continuous coordination of the position of the 25 member states, together with the uk presidency, since the june telecom council, had a positive impact on the final agreement. we managed to push through our ideas, showing that the europe which speaks with one voice is a europe that wins. mesdames et messieurs, l'union européenne a parlé d'une seule et même voix tout au long des négociations et a exercé une véritable influence sur les débats. pour ce qui est de la gouvernance de l'internet, les résultats du sommet consacrent au niveau mondial un accord qui couvre des aspects essentiels tels que la liberté d'expression et d'accès à l'information, la sécurité ou la lutte contre les spams. en ce qui concerne les fonctions centrales de l'internet, il a été décidé, dans la logique des propositions que l'europe a faites, de créer deux enceintes et deux processus. d'une part, le forum sur la gouvernance de l'internet, déjà connu sous le sigle igf, et d'autre part, le processus organisant la coopération renforcée entre les gouvernements sur les principes politiques en matière de gouvernance de l'internet. les gouvernements ont des responsabilités politiques à exercer. il est clair qu'ils ne doivent pas intervenir, ni dans la gestion technique de l'internet, ni dans celle de l'icann. la commission est favorable à la gestion de l'internet par le secteur privé, comme l'a d'ailleurs montré la mise en place du domaine ".eu". pour ce qui est du financement de la lutte contre la fracture numérique, un accord a été arrêté sur les mécanismes financiers et des priorités ont été définies pour promouvoir l'importance des technologies de l'information et de la communication dans le cadre des mécanismes de financement existants. en d'autres termes, les technologies de l'information et de la communication seront à l'avenir un outil important de notre politique de développement. la commission va adopter, au premier trimestre 2006, une communication ayant pour but d'évaluer les résultats du sommet et de montrer comment les politiques européennes vont les prendre en compte. les nations unies ont l'intention de lancer, au mois de mars 2006, une large consultation en vue de la préparation du forum sur la gouvernance de l'internet. pour notre part, nous allons, comme par le passé, consulter activement l'industrie et je pense que le parlement européen pourra prendre en charge une partie importante de la consultation de la société civile. en ce qui concerne la coopération renforcée entre les gouvernements – le deuxième processus –, kofi annan a souhaité connaître d'abord les intentions des états-unis et de l'union européenne. j'ai confirmé qu'il était de notre intention de préparer une première prise de position au niveau européen pour la mi-février. nous devons maintenant définir avec les états membres le processus qui permettra d'aboutir à des principes politiques en matière de gouvernance de l'internet et à leur mise en œuvre transparente et responsable. mr president, unfortunately, the summit was overshadowed by events that prompted the commission to mark its strong disagreement as to the way the tunisian authorities interfered with civil society events, creating difficulties even for the european parliament-commission joint workshop on human rights, not to mention the restrictions on expression experienced both before and during the summit. on behalf of the commission, mrs ferrero-waldner has already expressed our concerns to the tunisian government, and we have pointed out that it was difficult for us to believe that the incidents were just the result of an ‘unfortunate’ misunderstanding. we also explained that in the absence of positive reactions it will be more and more difficult for the commission to continue its constructive approach. secondly, an eu demarche on human rights is being considered by member states, and the commission will participate fully. the intention is to express our regrets vis-à-vis the recent events and reiterate our demands of last october: first, to unblock eu-funded civil society projects; second, to make progress on the implementation of the judicial reform programme; and, third, to create a subcommittee on human rights. the reaction to the tunis summit was brought up by president barroso in his speech at the barcelona summit. he expressed his deep regret at the attempts to stifle freedom of expression during the event. he stressed that ‘a society which cannot trust its own people is a weak and fragile one with little prospect of meaningful development’. these demarches represent our first steps. we have asked for specific gestures from the tunisian side. at the beginning of next year, we will re-evaluate the situation with member states and decide, in the absence of progress, whether further measures should be taken. i should like firmly to reassure you that the european commission will continue its efforts to ensure that the provisions of the association agreement and of the eu-tunisia action plan with regard to respect for human rights are duly implemented. we now have a new and more effective framework to tackle human rights questions: the neighbourhood policy. it is our firm intention, shared with the council, to put the neighbourhood instruments at the service of improving the situation in the field of human rights. finally, i welcome the good dialogue that we have had with parliament on this issue. our efforts in promoting democracy and respect for human rights in tunisia will be all the more effective if we are able to send consistent and coherent messages.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, as the pilot of our parliamentary delegation to the world summit on the information society in tunis, i want to testify to the leading role played by the union in the progress of the international negotiations. the enhanced cooperation between states has advanced the establishment of a forum on internet governance, which will meet for the first time in athens, as well as the democratic balance between states, pluralism and the involvement of civil society. human rights and fundamental freedoms are the essential basis of internet governance and the action plan. it was on the basis of the union's proposals, and more particularly those of the commission, that an agreement was reached in tunis, in particular with the united states. i would like to pay tribute to the commission's negotiators and thank the commissioner very much for involving the european parliament in this process. however, i regret that the only shadow cast on this summit was cast by tunisia itself. i declare unacceptable the serious incidents surrounding the summit and the violation of freedom of the press, freedom of expression and assembly, but also of individuals, as well as the events that targeted our delegation, in particular the sabotage of the workshop on human rights in internet governance. they are contrary to the commitments made by tunisia in the conclusions of the summit, as well as in the association agreement, and thus break the reciprocity of the agreement. these events call for a swift and firm response from the union and i call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the compromise resolution which calls for concrete action to be taken without delay. i thank the commissioner for the very specific remarks she has just made on this point.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as commissioner reding has said, when tunisia committed itself to hosting what was to be one of the world's largest summits, it could not go unnoticed. you yourself have acknowledged that the world summit on the information society has produced positive results; it also has an induced effect, the magnifying glass effect. you can't accredit 30,000 people and hundreds of journalists without public opinion being concerned about the environment. in this magnifying glass we have indeed seen the imbalance between the treatment of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the other undeniable progress that tunisia is making in economic and social development, training, education or equality between men and women. the union has been paying attention to this for a long time because tunisia is a partner country and one of the very first to sign an association agreement with us. we regard this as an example of development and we hope - as our last resolution in september expressed - that there will be a parallel development in the treatment of human rights and other integrated developments. we therefore ask nothing more than that tunisia should respect the contractual commitments it has signed. it is neither in our interest nor in our opinion to make insults, but simply to guarantee instruments of dialogue, as you have said. we are ready to provide assistance in the field of justice through the meda programme and, in accordance with the resolution which will be adopted by our parliament, we want to be able to have, on the basis of values which we wish to share, instruments of dialogue, such as the association council or the subcommittee on human rights, so that our tunisian partner is aware of the still measured message which this assembly is going to send him.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am glad that we are having this debate today. it is a response to the many human rights violations that took place during the world summit on the information society, which was held in tunis. i would like to mention briefly: the attacks on human rights defenders and journalists, the prevention of the citizens' summit, the cutting of telephone lines and the blocking of internet messaging, the censorship of the swiss president and other international figures who have been repressed, in particular our sakharov prize winner, robert menard, and so on. it should be noted that these violations are not isolated, individual events, but are common and daily practices in tunisia. the human rights situation in tunisia is deteriorating, as we noted in our resolution of 29 september. what has happened, it seems to me, is a challenge to the european union's policy on democracy and human rights in this country, the first signatory of an association agreement containing the famous article 2. and that is the challenge we must meet. the council has indeed taken several steps, but it is very regrettable that no public action has been taken to denounce the human rights violations committed and to provide the necessary support for the incredible mobilization of civil society, which is also partly represented today in the european parliament. it seems to us important that the commission and the council commit themselves, firstly, to convene an association council as soon as possible to discuss the human rights situation and the practical consequences of the violations found and, secondly, to initiate, in the spirit of the action plan itself, a timetable for reforms on the points already mentioned, but a precise timetable with deadlines for measurable results: one, reform of the judicial system and, in this spirit, to call for the release of mr mohammed abou and all political prisoners in tunisia and for the harassment of the association of magistrates to cease; two, stop the obstacles to the activities of civil society; thirdly, cooperation with the un mechanisms. this is the minimum plan to meet the challenge that we are facing.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, we shall vote against the so-called 'compromise' resolution, which i prefer to call the 'flautre' resolution', as it seems to be in line with the text of this honourable member. the resolution clearly wants to highlight the minor incidents - i say minor incidents - which occurred at the world summit on the information society, which took place under conditions which we - and we are not the only ones - consider to be entirely satisfactory. why should we be so hard on tunisia when so many countries around the world with which the european union has the best relations and which it is preparing to welcome, for some, are far less respectful of fundamental freedoms than the tunisian government is? why tunisia? it is simple, because tunisia is doing too well and in the eyes of certain powers, and unfortunately also of some simple minds that they manipulate, tunisia represents three dangers. firstly, tunisia is a model of development and one wonders whether some superpowers are not bent on destroying any arab country which is on the way to development. secondly, tunisia is a model of mediterranean cooperation. it is no accident that it was the first to sign an association agreement with the union, and some might have an interest, in the name of the well-known theory of the clash of civilizations, in opposing the two shores of the mediterranean, a sea whose unity would allow the euro-african region to prosper. finally, tunisia is a model of cooperation in the french-speaking world. it is developing in the french language, and some - as we saw in rabat a few days ago, at a meeting of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly (apem) - might prefer to replace english with french as the only international language. by joining forces with the systematic critics of tunisia, such as mrs flautre, and by attacking this country, which i repeat is exemplary, our assembly would give the impression that it wants, under the guise of cooperation and respect for human rights, to radicalize the positions of each other and ultimately to promote islamic fundamentalism. this is what is happening in iraq today through the west, which is really a term for washington and its cronies, and this is what egypt first, and then the maghreb, could also experience. if we do that, we will not be serving the interests of the european powers, but we will be exposing our peoples to the terrible rifts of our common sea.
mr president, i repeat my question. i was the rapporteur for the committee on culture and education on this subject. i'm in the debate. i ask you why you won't give me the floor.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to thank mrs wortmann-kool for her hard and outstanding work. i shall vote on this text tomorrow, although i have some regrets. this is the case with the financing of our ambitions, which are set out in the 2001 white paper and are intended to stabilise the modal shares of transport, or even to finance alternative modes of transport. these considerable ambitions were presented through the thirty priority projects. however, it is now known that the tens budget will not be able to match the commission's request for funding for major projects. we could have expected the eurovignette directive to be much more ambitious. unfortunately, this is again a subsidiary tool. member states which do not wish to apply it will not be obliged to do so. it is also a tool mainly intended to finance the road by road. it would only occasionally finance transport other than road transport. i am very much afraid that in order to reach a compromise - and we might have had to go through conciliation - the european parliament will give up some of its ambitions tomorrow, that is to say, that it will not be sufficiently firm on external costs, and in particular on the cut-off clause which our colleague el khadraoui has tabled in an amendment. if the commission and the member states do not propose a directive in due course, the automatic clause will apply.
member of the commission. madam president, in the strategy for 2006 we will have special initiatives for the new member states, taking the report into account. it is a basic policy that consumer protection is an integral part of the internal market and we cannot have completion of the internal market without consumer confidence and consumer protection. therefore, i emphasise to those member states that usually need more encouragement that this is also an investment, not just a human rights obligation that we owe to our citizens. we also make an investment in the growth of the economy by investing in consumer protection. the situation in the consumer organisation area is problematic in many new member states. some member states have too many organisations – about 100 – while others have too few. therefore, without interfering with the right of assembly or with private rights, we need to encourage stronger organisations, maybe federations, but this is something on which we can only advise; we cannot enforce it. that applies to financing too. the responsibility for most of the financing of the operational costs of the consumer organisations lies with the national governments. we can encourage, we can suggest, we can try to convince, but it has to be decided by the national governments. the european consumer centres, which play a great role, can carry out that function. i am happy that, by next year, all the new member states will have their own european consumer centres. i agree that the issue of volunteer work is very important for the consumer organisations. in our calculations, when we award projects, we take volunteer work into consideration as part of the contribution in kind. in that way, we help the organisations cover their part of the contribution to their financing through this volunteer work, which is a great help to the consumer organisations. on training, we can train the trainers. we can train the permanent staff of organisations who have to train the volunteers. as regards logistical – and especially language – problems, we do not have enough specialised people who can train in all the languages. so we train the consumer organisation staff who then can train volunteer workers. i agree with mr kristensen’s suggestion that we have to remind ourselves that the new member states have no derogation on joining the eurozone and adopting the euro. if this is an obligation for new member states, we might as well work with them and their citizens so that they can properly prepare, and in a timely fashion, for the adoption of the euro. with regard to education, i agree. we have the consumer diary, as you know, which is distributed in schools. it was very well received. i have figures from the new member states. of course, there is still room for improvement next year. i encouraged the ministers for education to increase the number of diaries that will be distributed to schools and students. hopefully, we will soon be introducing the concept of a masters degree in consumer protection, which will be an incentive for young people to study this specialised area. once again, i congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for this interesting debate.
member of the commission. madam president, on 24 november the council reached a political compromise on the reform of the eu sugar regime. from the beginning of the reform debate, the commission has been well aware that any reform leading to a more market-oriented sugar regime will require the sugar protocol acp countries to adjust. the commission is committed to helping those countries through this adjustment phase and has therefore proposed accompanying measures. before drafting the proposal for a regulation on accompanying measures for sugar protocol countries, the commission had produced an action plan setting out the principles of its proposed support for the sugar protocol countries. discussions have taken place with the acp countries concerned and this assistance scheme is designed to respond as closely as possible to the needs identified by the countries themselves. it recognises the diversity of impacts between countries and offers support both to the sugar sector and to strengthening alternative economic activities. social and environmental litigation measures are also included. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr lehideux, on his commitment and very constructive engagement in support of the protocol countries. the commission welcomes the amendments proposed in his report. the commission understands the complexity of the challenges facing the acp countries concerned. the commission has proposed eur 40 million for initial investment in 2006, taking into account the community’s budget availability and the lack of information on the precise needs, which are estimated at this stage. substantial additional funding will be provided from 2007 onwards. the reform of the eu sugar regime will only start being implemented from july 2006 onwards. however, it is important to start supporting the countries concerned from next year onwards, before the maximum impacts of the sugar reform are felt. anticipating these effects and starting to adapt to the expected changes as early as possible is likely to be the most successful coping strategy.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is bound to 18 acp countries by very old sugar agreements. it would be inconceivable, of course, to abruptly end these close links under the pretext of reforming our sugar market organization, however necessary that may be. the reform of the sugar cmo will of course have extremely heavy economic and financial consequences in the countries which have been able to export to the union market until now. but its effects will go far beyond that. for the majority of these countries, sugar is not a commodity like any other. the reform will have a very serious social impact on them because of the very special role of sugarcane cultivation: social role, economic role, cultural role, environmental role. ladies and gentlemen, there is urgency and there is no point in waiting for the financial perspective 2007-13 to act. it is therefore our duty to take measures now, as you have just said, madam commissioner, measures applicable as from 2006 and possibly renewable in 2007 to support the initial efforts to restructure the sugar industry or diversify the economy of these countries. commissioner, this is not the time for parliament to decide on the final measures that will have to be put in place, but may i ask you solemnly that those proposed to the acp countries are up to the challenge. in the light of the discussions i have had with the council and with the commission in the preparation of this report, i can assure you that this request is not just rhetorical. quick backtracking, if you will allow me. the committee on development and cooperation of the european parliament unanimously called for the aid planned by the european commission for 2006, which was considered to be clearly insufficient, to be doubled and increased from eur 40 million to eur 80 million. i cannot but bitterly regret the attitude of some member states who have done everything possible to block this proposal, in particular by refusing any dialogue on any increase over the proposed 40 million. this amount was to be fixed at one euro and some were even considering reducing it. i also regret the commission's attitude, which was deaf to the unceasing and unanimous calls from the acp countries for a higher amount. by refusing to change this figure, which is obviously very much underestimated, the commission imposed on the council a unanimous decision to increase the proposed amount, which is, i would say, a mission impossible, despite the efforts of the british presidency. unfortunately, i can only regret that i was beaten here during the budget debate. it will be necessary, moreover, to take stock of the rather unacceptable way in which the committee on budgets deals with the political priorities identified by the other thematic committees. i find it incomprehensible that a sum of 80 million proposed by all the members of the committee on development should be rejected out of hand by their colleagues on the budget. in any case, we have been obliged to accept this arrangement made outside of us. for the normal implementation of the regulation, and in view of the time limit for examining the action plans to be submitted by the acp countries, it is essential to allow adoption at first reading. this situation was therefore a dead end, since the risk of passing 80 million would have led to a second reading which would have threatened the very existence of the text. i repeat, the level of aid is clearly not enough, but these countries need this money now and cannot afford to wait on the pretext that the council, the commission and a number of our colleagues are not prepared to honour the commitments and the word of the european union. madam president, once is not enough. i think that is a very short-sighted attitude. at a time when the union is involved in difficult negotiations at the wto, tomorrow in hong kong, the day after tomorrow elsewhere, i fear that the acp countries may remember how lightly we have treated them. in conclusion, madam commissioner, after the adoption of this regulation, the development of this matter will be in the hands of the european commission and will ultimately depend largely on the reception it will give to the projects of the acp countries. i would like parliament to be kept regularly informed, through its committee on development, which i thank for its continuing support, of the developments in this vital matter.
madam president, madam commissioner, following the words of my colleague mr hatzidakis, i will venture to use a well-known phrase which you may remember: 'do not be afraid'. don't be afraid, madam commissioner. i'll see you in a few days. do you think there are governments that have enough resources in these times of financial difficulty to generously distribute funds between all the regions? do you think there are governments that would be foolish enough to distribute money to regions, knowing that their investments would be wasted in the following years? don't be afraid, madam commissioner. i'll see you in a few days. as you said earlier, these amounts represent less than 20% of the state aid. don't be afraid, madam commissioner. i'll see you in a few days. you yourself said earlier, at the beginning of your speech, that extremely strict controls would be put in place, and our colleague mr koterec, whose quality work i commend, pointed out that there were indicators such as unemployment rates, etc. you can be sure, madam commissioner, that by raising the safety net to 25%, the member states will make good use of the indicators you have put in place, in the interests of europe and our fellow citizens.
the commission's latest proposals on regional state aid are a step forward, since each member state can retain areas eligible for national aid by creating a safety net. however, this measure results in a very large reduction in support, which is not consistent with the evolution of macroeconomic indicators in some of our regions. the safety net should therefore be raised. a reduction in the minimum coverage rate to well below the proposed 50% would allow for the situation of those states whose statistical breakdown does not take account of regional disparities. in the same vein, while i am pleased to note that the outermost regions remain eligible under article 87 (3) (a), i regret that the new proposals are not of a nature to compensate for the announced reduction in support. the aid intensity must be considered specifically in the outermost regions, since it is a condition for the survival of their economies and not a competitive adjustment. it is not consistent to encourage the ors to cooperate with neighbouring countries with incomparably lower labour costs, while drastically reducing the support to their enterprises, which is the essential tool for restoring the level playing field to distorted regional competitiveness. it is essential that the overseas territories continue to receive the same level of aid as is currently in force. i would like to thank the committee on regional development for adopting my amendment, which stresses that the guidelines should explicitly provide for the possibility for member states to notify aid projects and for the commission to assess their compatibility using more flexible criteria to take account of possible regional or sectoral specificities and innovative approaches.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just learned something this morning: even on a cold december morning, a may atmosphere can develop in a room, and i see a spirit of revolt rising up against the council, against governments; i find that very, very interesting. mr president, mr alexander, you have spoken of the eloquence of mr blair. i would say that the vacuum of the british presidency is telling! it is extraordinary, and if the policy you propose is really up to the instrumentalisation you are making of this parliament and the european institutions when you need it - i am talking about the withholding of data which you cannot pass through your parliament, because you have the obligation and the duty to pass through ours - if this is how you conceive of europe, i tell you one thing: not only are you going to fail - i don't care if the british presidency fails - but europe is going to fail, and that is a danger. as regards the financial perspective, when you talk about reform proposals and your desire to reform agriculture, you are actually cutting off funds for rural development. it's the most modern aspects of our budget you want to sacrifice! (applause) i would like to thank wait before you clap, i'm afraid you'll clap less for what's coming next. you mentioned something extraordinary: you have to be modern. (i'll have less applause right away...) and what do we propose? nuclear power! it's an energy from the past, from the '60s! don't stay in the '60s. modernity is something else, it's hydrogen. you don't understand anything, and that's what's dangerous. when a presidency doesn't understand something, it does anything. i would like to say this in german so that my colleagues poettering and schulz can understand it. it 's true . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the problem is that the governments are greedy, as professor watson has already said, and that is exactly what the rat will do. tell herr steinbrück that it is not so! i said that to the greens before, when they were in government. say it in public! it is a scandal, was dieser finanzminister anstrebt! genauso wie frau grossetête: tell mr chirac too that defending french agricultural policy as it is is a scandal that does not help us to make progress. the responsibility for what happened is not only the presidency. they hate it too, because it's just as bad and bad as all the governments in the council. you're not the best. but the governments they represent are also part of the problem. not yesterday, but when they're outside, they're part of a whole artwork, which is called a rat. and that is a strange work of art! i would like to say something about two points which seem important to me in this question: we spoke earlier about iran. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. if one is willing to take a measure against the other, then i know one. the president was finally elected, whether we like it or not! the only effective measure to ensure that the world championship is not excluded is the question of whether iran can be excluded from the world championship. that would trigger a debate in iran. that would be a serious debate. yesterday's bread and games and on the other hand can make and say, was er will das halte ich für nicht konsequent. this would be a debate which would show the people of iran that their leader is actually in power at the moment. if a man isolates himself, he must also make himself clear and clear. it would also be a proposal for the council presidency, which would have to be discussed. and finally the fight against terrorism. fighting against terrorism cannot mean fighting against democracy. do you understand? it cannot mean fighting against democracy. having heard about the events involving the cia here in europe, i can tell you that this is not about fighting terrorists; this is about creating the conditions for bigotry. we must stop the wrong fight against terrorism. if you want to fight terrorists, please, come back to the rule of law and then you will have us, the greens, on your side. (applause) i would like to thank you.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, last june the majority of parliament gave mr blair a warm welcome. six months later, the political group chairmen unanimously rejected - a very exceptional fact - his budget proposals, and i quote, 'because of a lack of solidarity'. the president of the commission has just said the same thing and our whole debate is very clear. this turn of events should make the outgoing presidency reflect. its disregard for its partners in general and the new member states in particular has now crossed the threshold of the unacceptable. how can anyone dare to settle britain's internal political and budgetary quarrels on the backs of the new member states, who are most in need of community funds, while declaring themselves champions of enlargement? on the one hand, the new member states would be granted eur 14 billion less in appropriations than the minimal compromise of june. the uk would also benefit from the discount, which would save 12 billion euros more than was planned six months earlier. there's a thatcher touch in there that could cost us. as for the willingness of the presidency-in-office to reform the cap to make it more equitable, let us leave it to the financial times of 7 december to assess its sincerity. i quote: 'when the commission proposed to set a ceiling on the size of farms eligible for income support in the last reform of the cap, the initiative was blocked by the united kingdom because it has fewer small farms than the other member states'. the major european principles of the present presidency clearly end where the major domestic interests begin. so it took a good deal of courage to take the new member states by surprise, as jack straw did, by comparing the funds allocated to them in the next financial perspective to two marshall plans, even though the cheque would represent, according to your foreign minister's own figures, between 2000 and 2013 alone, a marshall plan for britain alone, the fifth largest economy in the world. this is not europe anymore, it's the jackpot! let's not let the "i want my money back" days of grim memory come back. the letter from the six largest net contributors announcing two years ago that they intended to limit future budgets to 1% of gross national income had unfortunately reopened this dead end. mr. blair has plunged into the breach without restraint. we must stop this drift while there's still time. it seems that we are in the midst of a period of reflection on the meaning of the european adventure. it seems to me that the time has come to choose between integration through the market and political construction, between savage competition and solidarity, between capitulation and ambition. we shall soon see who really wants europe!
mr president, the european council in brussels on budgetary and fiscal matters is of paramount importance. albion, represented by the socialist tony blair, presented its proposal on the financial perspective for 2007-13 just ten days before the european council, so that its partners could not make counter-proposals. moreover, the british, for tactical purposes, have pushed the skill to the point of displeasing their friends the countries of the east and sparing their opponents france and germany , without practically touching their budgetary return. all they have to do is pretend to let go of the weight of the burden and they can get an agreement in the council, which is not inclined to return to this issue under the austrian presidency. the big loser would be france, which would continue to finance the british cheque and see its contribution to the community budget explode because of enlargement, while receiving less because of the reduction in the cap budget. the other topic of discussion is the reduced vat rate for labour-intensive services. it is a wonderful thing that the taxation of activities which do not in any way affect the functioning of the internal market, such as the restoration or renovation of housing, is discussed at european level and requires unanimity. chirac should have remembered that the fiscal sovereignty no longer existed when he made promises to the restaurateurs that he could not keep. in any case, the decisions taken in brussels will bind france for many years and will contribute, a little more, to the dramatic indebtedness of our country.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, europeans deserve better than the cat and mouse game being played by the union presidency with its 24 partners on the eve of a european council crucial for the future of europe. the proposals put forward in recent days by the british presidency on the financial perspective for 2007-13 are unacceptable for two reasons. they are sacrificing the new member states, they are erecting a new wall between the old and the new member states and they want to perpetuate a british failure which no longer has any place. they also contain a subtext about agricultural expenditure which is on the verge of being threatened and which we cannot tolerate in our union. if the common agricultural policy is not reformed in 2008, the uk will keep its cheque unchanged. no subject should be taboo in our democracy, whether it be the overall budget of the european union, the distribution of its expenditure, regional aid, the cap, aid for research and innovation or any other community policy. everything can be debated, studied and compromised in our interest, which we all understand. but what we cannot accept is that a country retains advantages which no longer correspond at all to the current economic and political context, all the more so at the expense of countries which need help to overcome the handicaps created by fifty years of communist rule. we cannot accept that the considerable efforts already made by the european union in the agricultural field be denied, particularly in the context of the wto negotiations. europe has already done its duty on this point and is looking forward to other agricultural powers, such as the united states, making comparable efforts before pursuing its reforms, if necessary. the british prime minister, tony blair, has formally declared to us in this very house his willingness to work for the common good of europe, to overcome national egoism and to advance the construction of europe during his presidency. we are waiting for him to finally act and to deserve the applause which many of my colleagues perhaps gave him a little too quickly last june.
mr president, in five weeks the council of europe's investigation into the existence of secret us detention centres in europe has made no progress. according to swiss parliamentary rapporteur dick marty, all the information that has been provided strengthens the credibility of the allegations, but he has not been able to get a precise answer to his questions. it is therefore our duty as representatives of the european citizens to demand that an inquiry be carried out to ascertain carefully, on a case-by-case basis, what facts might give rise to human rights violations and offences. if the information is true, it means that serious crimes have been committed in the territory of the union. as far as torture is concerned, we don't go down that road. the cia admits to using sleep deprivation, exposure to cold, suffocation; if that's not torture, then what is? if the existence of these centres is proven, we will call for severe sanctions against those responsible. on the other hand, if the rumors were unfounded, it's our credibility to dispel the doubt. all our member states are involved and we must be aware of this. the union, through its charter of fundamental rights - we all say this often - can be a model. let us not tolerate any attack on human rights in the union.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to join mr van orden on a very crucial point: the financial question. although i do not quite share his thinking - and i am not surprised - i share his concern about the financial perspectives, which would not allow either the enlargement that has already been achieved to ten new member states or the preparation of the next enlargement under the right conditions. that said, i would like to recall the spirit of my report, which is to prepare as much as possible for romania's accession in 2007, because i too believe that romania's accession, like bulgaria's, is possible on 1 january 2007. the report i am presenting is intended to be a useful and effective working tool for the coming months. the committee's report, as presented by mr rehn on 25 october, was exemplary in this respect. i thank him again for his work and, in substance, the report i am putting to the vote in parliament is in the same vein as his. i would like to reaffirm the european parliament's friendship towards romania and our willingness to work towards a common objective - enlargement to 27 after the fall of communism and the great liberation movement in eastern europe - but at the same time we must affirm the seriousness of our demands and the solidity of our criteria. that is why parliament must not only be sensitive to the progress made by romania on the road to accession - which i believe has been the catalyst for many changes and many reforms - but also be demanding and vigilant and monitor the practical implementation of these reforms. my report also provides a clear picture of the problems romania faces, particularly in the field of justice and home affairs, with regard to the transparency of the judicial system, the fight against corruption, organised crime, border control, administrative capacity, the recognition or protection of hungarian minorities, and - i will say this again - also in the field of the environment and the implementation of legislation. and we know that there are a whole series of demands and issues that the romanian government needs to focus on. i would add that the possibility of using safeguard clauses remains. the safety clause is not a gimmick. it is a precise and concrete provision and a guarantee of the seriousness of the accession procedure; however, it should not be seen as a threat or a sanction, but as a mechanism to give bulgaria and romania the time needed to prepare for integration into the internal market and to ensure that accession proceeds under the best possible conditions for both member countries and new entrants. that is the spirit of my report, which is also very close to the spirit of mr van orden's report, and i think that tomorrow parliament will be able to express its willingness to take a further step towards accession on 1 january 2007. a few words now on the amendments as they have been discussed and prepared in the committee on foreign affairs. we are very close to a consensus on this too, and it is true that the report was also voted on very broadly by the committee on foreign affairs. i think, however, that there are still three or four delicate issues which need to be discussed tomorrow, and i would like to give my opinion; that is the role of the rapporteur. firstly, there is the question of whether the bulgarian and romanian cases are linked. while they are of course linked in practice, there is nevertheless the question of their own merits. i have co-signed an amendment tabled by mr lagendijk on behalf of the greens, which adds a specific reference to the fight against corruption and the transparency of the judicial system in paragraph 3 of both mr van orden's and my reports. a second very sensitive and very important issue is that of adoption. it is the subject of an amendment by mrs nicholson, whose attachment to the law as it was voted in romania is well known. i think that perhaps more emphasis should be placed on the best interests of the child and the un legal framework, in addition to romanian law, in the resolution of contentious cases arising from the moratorium - and as rapporteur, i see many of them. several amendments were tabled by mr wiersma and mr lajendijk. i hope that one or the other of these amendments will be adopted or that a compromise will be found between them. there is also the question of minorities. in the report i had proposed the notion of self-government. the discussions in the committee on foreign affairs showed that many felt that respect for minorities was necessary, but that the romanian government should not be asked to decide on the method, procedure or practical form of this increased autonomy. the aim is not to interfere and not to provoke conflict by clumsy wording. again, several formulas have been proposed by mr wiersma, again, or by mrs nicholson. whether it is a deep decentralisation or cultural autonomy, i hope that parliament will also show its willingness to assert the rights of minorities, especially hungarian minorities, while remaining flexible. finally, a consensus was reached last week to avoid mentioning in this report the rumors about the cia's secret activities. i still think that this progress report is not the place to express our very real concern about this; it must deal with membership and membership alone. i would like to thank all those who have worked on these accessions for their support for this report. i welcome the improvement in it by judicious additions. i believe that we can do even better tomorrow morning when we vote and i hope that we will take a step towards romania's accession on 1 january 2007.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i welcome the informed and thought provoking-debate that has taken place this afternoon on this important issue for the european union. the interventions we have heard have reinforced the importance of enlargement in my mind and underlined the benefits it brings to candidate countries and indeed the wider member states. as in our previous debate, honourable members’ points and questions went to the heart of the issue and raised some interesting issues for us to consider about romania and bulgaria’s accession processes and the wider policy of enlargement. given the constraints of time, i shall limit my concluding remarks to a few of the points that were addressed directly by honourable members. mr tannock and mr belder mentioned the issue of corruption and, in particular, concern in relation to border guards and the security thereof. both countries certainly face major challenges in tackling corruption, and bulgaria, in particular, must step up the fight against organised crime. the new governments have demonstrated a real commitment to tackle these problems and we have seen some progress, but there is still a long way to go. it is right to acknowledge that before this house today. in romania examples of progress include: a new head of the anti-corruption department in the general prosecutor’s office; 11 new senior prosecutors removed for ineffectiveness; and 22 cases of corruption by former and current senators and deputies now under way. in relation to the further work that romania has undertaken, border police and customs have dismissed large numbers of senior border and customs officers at several posts for ineffectiveness and corruption. but let us be very clear: there is considerable and important progress that needs to be made on these important points. mr beglitis and mr tannock also mentioned the issue international adoption, a point that was then touched upon by ms mcguinness in a later contribution to the debate. corruption in international adoption has been clearly a problem. recent measures have been introduced to protect the interests of the child, as we have heard from a number of speakers, to improve domestic child protection and family facilities and to reduce the numbers of institutionalised children, in line with the united nations convention on the rights of the child and european union norms. in relation to the specific question as to why the romanian government is blocking pre-arranged adoptions, for example to the united states, a number of the so-called pipeline cases, which have been mentioned in the course of contributions to this debate, relate to requests made during the period of the 2001 to 2004 moratorium on international adoption. the romanian authorities set up a group of experts in june 2005, who are working through the files of the children concerned, to analyse each specific case and to look for solutions within the context of the legislation currently in force. ms mcguinness, ms sbarbati and ms de groen-kouwenhoven also mentioned children in the wider sense and asked what is being done in relation to the treatment of children in both of these countries. we are certainly concerned about the plight of institutionalised children whose living conditions are generally inadequate in both of these countries. more work is needed to improve conditions, but we are encouraged by both governments’ recent actions. for example, in the case of bulgaria, the government has established six regional offices of the state agency for child protection since early 2005 to take forward improvements. it has started to implement a new action plan to close old state care homes. in the case of romania, the government is working hard to take children out of care homes and move them in with foster parents or relatives. it has closed almost all of the 85 large, old-style institutions for children and replaced them with modern child protection alternatives. since 2000, it has reduced the number of children in care homes from 37 000 down to the present figure of 32 000. mr piotrowski suggested – on a different matter entirely, but one that it is apposite to respond to, not least given the timing of this debate – that the presidency’s proposals on the financial perspective for 2007 to 2013 could not accommodate romania and bulgaria and failed to meet the criteria for solidarity. i do not accept either charge. on romania and bulgaria, our proposals fully respect their allocations under the accession agreements and provide for a historic shift of spending towards the new member states and accession states and offer them greater flexibility as to how to distribute those european union funds to the greatest possible effect. that historic shift in funding, which includes significant cuts in receipts for the united kingdom, shows why our proposals are all about solidarity, which featured prominently in his remarks. there is no virtue in repeating the word ‘solidarity’, while avoiding the difficult challenge of finding the common ground on which both net contributors and net recipients can meet in the course of the coming hours and coming days. in relation to both bulgaria and romania, i would recognise that significant progress towards european union accession on 1 january 2007 has been made, but more work needs to be undertaken. the commission, under the capable leadership of commissioner rehn, will continue to monitor progress closely and will produce a follow-up report in april or may next year. this report will provide the basis for any decision on whether to activate the so-called ‘safeguard clause’. to avoid delay, romania and bulgaria must now step up the pace of reform in the critical months at the beginning of the coming year and, in particular, tackle corruption, which has featured so prominently in this debate this afternoon. they have a short space of time in which to implement these reforms, but accession in 2007 is still achievable, as long as they fulfil those important, outstanding commitments. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the members for the substantive and substantive debate and the weighty speeches. it is also good that the speakers emphasized that we are now talking about completing the last, the fifth, round of enlargement. this is in addition to the historic breakthrough that was triggered by the fall of the berlin wall more than 15 years ago. i believe that the commission and the european parliament and the presidency, in view of the weighty speech by mr alexander, are looking at the accession preparations for bulgaria and romania in much the same way and with the same emphasis. in particular, the reform of the judiciary is absolutely necessary. it is essential for the legal security of citizens in bulgaria and romania, it is essential for the economic dynamics and foreign investment, and it is also essential for the implementation of eu law in these countries. we have a responsibility to assess objectively and fairly whether these countries are ready in this respect to join the union in 2007. the same applies to administrative reform, in particular the fight against corruption and crime, and the elimination of problems in the field of agriculture and food security. the coming months will be very crucial for both countries. both countries have the opportunity to join in 2007, but only if both countries do their utmost and take the challenge fully seriously. i trust there is no ambiguity in this matter, but in case of any confusion, i will repeat my message. the key is not a charm offensive in the capitals of the eu countries, but a determined practical action to bring about reforms in the judiciary and administration and to fight corruption and crime in a very determined way. i would not like to be in a position in the spring to have to propose security clauses on behalf of the commission, but it should be noted that they have not been included in the accession treaties for the sake of entertainment. this possibility should be taken seriously in bulgaria and romania, and every effort should be made to achieve membership eligibility so that both countries can join in january 2007. we will assess this capacity in the light of the facts in a completely objective manner. the commission will support reforms in bulgaria and romania, monitor developments and present to parliament and the council in due course an assessment of this progress. it is important to stress that we need a regular dialogue, as the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, elmar brok, among others, has said. i suggest that we come back to this during the spring, when we will have a more precise picture of how bulgaria and romania have progressed in their efforts to achieve membership eligibility at the beginning of 2007.
in spring 2006, the european commission will present to the council its final opinion on the accession of bulgaria and romania in january 2007. these accessions will depend on their ability to fulfil the commitments entered into in the accession treaty. if not, the safeguard clauses providing for the postponement of accession to 2008 may be activated. although the reports on the level of preparedness of romania and bulgaria respectively underline the importance of the progress made, particularly in the area of market economy, it is clear that the pace of reforms needs to be stepped up, particularly for romania, in order to strengthen the administrative and judicial system, the fight against corruption, roma integration and border control. there are also worrying delays in the implementation of the acquis communautaire in the fields of agriculture, public procurement and the environment. this enlargement will present the european union with a double challenge: not to disappoint the romanian and bulgarian citizens who have high hopes for this accession, and at the same time to explain to our citizens, at a time when the european union is going through a major political and budgetary crisis, the justification for this enlargement - rejected by a large part of public opinion.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the machinery directive we are discussing here is a revision of a directive, as you said, dating back to 1998. this is a highly technical subject, but one which will have a major impact on the european machine industry and on the european economy as a whole. i would like to recall the figures mr verheugen has already quoted, which are even better than the ones i had. i cannot help but recall that the annual turnover of the profession is 402 billion euros, of which 113 billion euros are exported to third countries. the first reading reflected a reasonable compromise reached after years of debate. the very definition of a machine and a quasi-machine, as i recall, required a strong mobilization during the previous mandate. in the second reading, i focused on the provisions of the directive on ce marking, as i felt that the wording was not legally clear. i thank the council for accepting my amendment, but i am glad that the commission is working on this subject, which still needs further study. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the way he has conducted the negotiations. we have made considerable progress towards a common position thanks to an informal trilogue bringing together the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, the fictitious rapporteurs, the representatives of the european commission and those of the council. we have reached a consensus that all professionals expect. there are still some points to be clarified, particularly with regard to tractors, but i remain optimistic and hope that the problems will be solved by the effective application of this directive. as a result, the alde group will vote for the compromise.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fisheries - like agriculture - is not a sector like any other. fisheries play a part in shaping the quality of life at european level, coastal safety and environmental protection. in many cases, when it is small-scale, fishing even helps to boost tourism. it should be stressed that the fishing community plays a major role. their passionate work is demanding, hard, dangerous, and their pay is subject to too many uncertainties. often in debt, victims of the continuous rise in gasoline prices, fishermen and their families live in fear of not being able to make ends meet and losing their jobs. the community's fisheries policy has not helped to relieve them of their anxieties. on the contrary, it has contributed to the disappearance of the activity of thousands of artisanal fishermen and to the social insecurity of fishing seamen, without obtaining any clear results in terms of conservation of resources. worse, this policy has often given the impression of being subject to the law of lobbies, more concerned with cultivating their media image and chasing subsidies than working seriously on environmental protection. that is why, commissioner, fishermen are tired of being constantly suspected of being sea-dealers by a european commission which, on the contrary, is very complacent about the real sea-dealers, the flags of complacency. mr commissioner, contrary to the prejudices of your scientific circle, no one is more committed to the preservation of fisheries resources than fishing seamen. it is their livelihood, their heritage and the future of their children. it is more than enough that quotas for fishing quantities and days are set, often without any real scientific basis, and that the states sell each other, despite common sense, in establishing fishing zones. the commission must no longer favour fishermen of certain nationalities to the detriment of others. everyone must be on an equal footing within europe. i am sure that your text makes some progress in this area, and that it is formally intended to involve all the parties concerned, but i think it is vague and timid. we cannot save fisheries and fishery resources without fishermen and their professional and trade union organisations. the fishermen, through their representatives, must be fully involved in all decisions affecting them. the union must also provide financial assistance to member states to protect their territorial waters against piracy. i am thinking in particular of the territorial waters in the peripheral regions of the union. while there is a real problem of financing a fair, sustainable and bold european fisheries policy, let us not forget that one of the threats to resources is pollution caused by maritime transport. behind this pollution is the flag of convenience system. so let us put the blame for this permanent ecological disaster on the shoulders of those responsible and we shall have the means to embark on a truly ambitious policy.
mr president, i invoke rule 145 on personal matters, which gives me the opportunity to speak for up to three minutes. i won't go after this time. mr president, the full minutes of last tuesday's sitting have just been made available to us and have enabled me to learn of a personal accusation made against me by a man who, as i had believed until then, was presiding over the sitting in a courteous and impartial manner. i am referring to the vice-president of the sitting in question, who thought he could interrupt me and take a stand on the merits of the case against the french government. by referring to a historical event - the tragedy of the struthof camp - his remark shows that he is profoundly ignorant of the ins and outs of this tragedy, as well as the work of recent historians on this subject. the chairman also thought he could make a comment after the intervention of one of my colleagues, although it contained no personal criticism and no insulting remarks. i have a great deal of experience of parliamentary life; i have never seen a chairman of a sitting display such arrogance as our colleague mr mcmillan scott and i deeply regret it.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to confirm the withdrawal of amendment no 9, which called for the amount of 40 million euro to be increased to 80 million. not only do i want to confirm this withdrawal, but i want to take responsibility for it. the committee on development unanimously adopted this amendment and i thank the members of the committee very much for their foresight and support. but the council has refused to make any gesture towards the acp countries, despite the positive position and action of the british presidency, to which i can testify. the commission, for its part, has not moved a hair. the system, which was blocked by the budget debate in this parliament, did the rest and carried the bottleneck. but, mr president, for imperative reasons of timetable, this regulation must be adopted at first reading. so we took our responsibility and withdrew the 9th amendment, which called for 80 million. i am obliged, ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons i have just mentioned, to ask you to vote on this report, in line with your budgetary votes. however, in order to tell the acp countries that some of them are not forgotten here, i ask that my name be removed from this text and i propose to my colleagues in the committee on development and cooperation, and to them alone, to cast a symbolic vote in the final vote: a negative vote.
mr president, i would simply ask for a purely formal correction to paragraph 6 of the draft compromise resolution, namely to replace the last sentence in the last part of the resolution beginning with 'in order to' at the end of the first part, that is to say after 'association council', to reinstate the text on which we have reached agreement. i would also ask that in paragraphs where it is simply mentioned 'the summit' 'the isms' be added in parentheses, in order to be consistent with the resolution as a whole, so that there is no confusion if this text is quoted in a separate paragraph. finally, i would like to thank the members of the various groups who have extended the subject of this resolution to the conclusions of the summit. i would like to say how important this resolution is after the sakharov prize and after i said yesterday in this parliament that we must link the fundamental freedom of expression and freedom of the press to all our actions, especially when we have agreements with friendly countries.
in writing. the 2006 budget is the last of the 2000/2006 financial perspective and also the last before the accession of romania and bulgaria on 1 january 2007. in short, three points: the share of agriculture and rural development in the total budget is now only 43%, which takes away from the british a strong argument that the cap is too expensive. secondly, whatever the european parliament and the commission may say, the budget is growing steadily and unchecked: the increase in payment appropriations is 5.4%, higher than that of all national budgets. finally, the agreement reached between the council and parliament is the result of a disgraceful bargaining process negotiated behind the backs of the european citizens: the council got what it wanted on the cfsp; in return, parliament has preserved its priorities: culture, youth, the environment or federalist propaganda. the only one who is not satisfied with this budget is the european taxpayer, whose taxes are being increased to pay for, among other things, his country's financial contribution to the european union. france paid in 2005: €16.7 billion. what will happen in 2006 in a union of 25 until something better comes along?
in writing. the objective set by the council and the european parliament in this area, namely the principle of an integrated service to facilitate access to air transport for disabled passengers and passengers with reduced mobility, is not only commendable but indispensable because action was urgently needed. the disparity in situations and treatment, whether in access to airports or in the assistance provided between airports and airlines, is striking. whether it is the companion who has no place next to the person with reduced mobility, the lack of medical equipment on board and on the ground such as electric wheelchairs or the lack of disability training for airport staff, it can only be seen that the principle of equality between all passengers is not respected in the same way in all european airports and airlines. i am also pleased to note that the efforts which will have to be made by the various airlines and airports should not entail any specific additional costs for disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility. it's the least i can do.
in writing. i see a double injustice in the reform of the common organization of the sugar market under way. ' - firstly for european producers themselves, since it is the large multinational sugar consumers of the nestlé type that are likely to be the main beneficiaries of the reform. the small producers could suffer from the 31% fall in guaranteed prices. 2 - but above all, this reform is unfair to the poor sugar-producing countries. once again, we're making them pay the price. the numbers speak for themselves. european producers can count on a €1.5 billion compensation package and €4.2 billion for restructuring the sector, while the acp countries have only €40 million available for the time being. that's an indecent amount. we had proposed 80 million euros in the committee on development. the lehideux report mitigates some of the adverse effects of the reform of the sugar regime in the eu by proposing: - to make aid complementary to the other financial instruments of eu development policy; - measures to diversify the economy of countries heavily dependent on sugar such as the caribbean island states or mauritius.
in writing. the lehideux report is a catalogue of good feelings that leads to nothing concrete, except for financial support of 40 million euros in 2006. the 18 acp countries, which are signatories to the sugar protocol, export 1.6 million tonnes of cane sugar to the european union at community prices each year. the reduction in sugar prices of 36% over four years adopted by the council will lead to an equivalent reduction in their export earnings. for countries as poor as swaziland and malawi, it is a blow to the wto that it forces the european union to reform its sugar sector at the request of brazil. as the acp countries rightly say, the reform is too rapid and too deep. in reality, the only winner will be brazil, the world's largest exporter of cane sugar, which will take advantage of this to increase its export market shares to the detriment of the acp countries. at a time when the wto is discussing the development cycle, the european union is setting a very bad example for africa, even though the 'everything but arms' initiative is trying to hide our divisions and our selfishness. this reform of the sugar cmo will make their poverty worse with all the immigration consequences one can imagine.
in writing. i can only welcome the extension of the fisheries agreement between the ec and seychelles, the first agreement negotiated under the partnership agreements. this agreement is an opportunity for all and a benefit for all:- it will allow community vessels to have access to seychelles' fisheries resources in a transparent and regulated manner;- in return, the financial compensation paid by the eu will be of great support to the coastal population by facilitating the development of certain key economic sectors, such as the processing industry or port services. - i would add that the agreement provides for the possibility of increasing the community financial compensation in accordance with the volume of catches. for these reasons i support this report wholeheartedly. the only shadow in the picture is the lack of consideration for the european parliament. it is not normal that we have had to wait almost a year for the text of the protocol to be transmitted, and this for technical and administrative reasons. i hope that in future the european parliament will be better associated and also more involved throughout the follow-up of this agreement. let's hope it's not just wishful thinking.
in writing. the commission's legislative programme for 2006 illustrates a certain conception of europe which is now outdated: - an anti-democratic europe, seeking to impose a constitution that the french and dutch have rejected by means of a subterfuge of a 'd' plan; - a europe without borders, open to global immigration, allowing in particular the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants legalised in spain and italy to settle in the other member states; - an anti-social europe, which, by implementing the ultra-liberal lisbon strategy, relocates our companies, dismantles our labour law (the bolkestein directive, which chirac had ensured in april that it was buried, will be put back under our assembly); - a europe without identity, which, by opening accession negotiations with turkey, an asian and muslim state, will soon have only a european name; - an anti-national europe, which dissolves our nations into a bureaucratic superstate. today our peoples do not need just another legislative programme, but another europe, based on what constitutes its identity: the freedom of its nations and the genius of its civilization.
in writing. the european union must publicly condemn the violations of human rights and press freedom in tunisia so that tunisian public opinion knows it. the tunisian regime is content with a diplomacy of the corridor, to ignore the increasingly worrying situation of the 401 political prisoners, the 5 political parties not allowed to speak freely to tunisian citizens, the many associations that cannot freely carry out their activities. these lawyers, journalists, workers, intellectuals are being suppressed, muzzled. let us, for once, speak directly to the tunisian people and tell them that the european parliament will not fall into the trap set by ben ali: to continue to show indulgence towards a dictatorship that is not even hiding anymore.
in writing. the european commission's initial proposal envisaged a ban on state aid to enterprises in france from 2007. this project, like that of the bolkestein directive, is part of the establishment of a highly competitive internal market, decided at the barcelona summit, where france was represented by mr chirac and mr jospin. the report by mr koterec makes some improvements: france will still be able to grant state aid, but it will be greatly reduced. european regional policy, largely paid for by french taxpayers, is therefore not content to be increasingly weak in relation to our regions (the french hainaut region has thus lost the structural funds under objective 1). by preventing france from having an independent industrial policy, it is now jeopardising the existence of hundreds of companies which, in the absence of specific public aid, will have to relocate their activities or close down. this europe, this europe which produces unemployed people, which is anti-social because it is anti-national, was rejected by our compatriots on 29 may. they want a different europe, a europe which respects national sovereignty, which will respect work.
mr president, we abstained on the joint resolution on the covert transfer of prisoners suspected of islamic terrorism by cia agents. without taking a position on the substance, we believe that if protests are to be raised against such practices, if they have actually taken place, they must come from the governments of the member states, some of which are allies of the united states of america. but we also consider, and i want to make this very clear, that the situation is abnormal. the law exists, even for those who violate it in the most brazen way, namely terrorists. it is totally contrary to our traditions that people are confined without access to the outside world and without the possibility of defending themselves. one of two things: either the prisoners of the united states of america are considered prisoners of war and must be treated as such, that is to say, receive regular visits from the red cross and be released at the end of hostilities, - i am thinking in particular of the prisoners of war who were captured in afghanistan - or they are considered common criminals in view of the facts against them and therefore must be able to be defended by lawyers, have the opportunity to defend themselves and know the charges against them. this is the foundation of our civilization. we must not allow terrorism to destroy these fundamental values of ours!
, on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally certain that the yeti does not exist, because if it did, the chinese authorities would have already had him sign the declaration calling the dalai lama a dangerous individual as part of their patriotic education programme, and they would have made it widely known. i consider the dalai lama to be a person of immense honour and i would be honoured if he would come and speak to this house. more seriously, in the face of a dictatorial regime that coerces, imprisons, tortures and kills, how can we express our indignation beyond our little debate this afternoon? i would modestly suggest, given that in 30 months' time the youth of the world will be meeting in beijing for the olympic games and the chinese regime intends to use this event to celebrate its pseudo-democratic model, to allow our athletes to be bearers of a message of peace, democracy and freedom so that they are champions of the tibetan cause, otherwise we would be doing a proud service to all the people in this part of the world.
mr president, i hope that this empty chamber does not reflect our lack of interest in what happens in russia, however understandable the situation is here on a thursday afternoon. what happens in russia is in our interests; its interests are our interests. sadly, the clock in russia is now being turned back nearly to soviet times. there is, at the moment, no independent judiciary, there is no free television, and the political opposition has been totally marginalised. i will not even talk about what is happening in chechnya; human life is very cheap there. regarding ngos, what happens to them is another link in this far too long chain of sad events in russia. we cannot be the victim of the ‘nimby’ syndrome: not in my back yard. indeed, it is all in our back yard. it concerns us all. old habits die very hard in the soviet union, but we have to help russia to come back towards democracy and universal values. first of all, it is in the interests of the russian people: they deserve liberty, democracy and transparent governance. we also cannot work with a partner who does not adhere to international rules. we have to help russia become a confident nation which sees that there is no conflict between strength and a democratic, thriving civil society. we have to speak with one voice; otherwise, we reduce our position to something insignificant. we cannot have a good christmas, we cannot have a good conscience, if we do not see what is happening to our near neighbour.
